Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 421lb-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 2, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   =  Gourde (Gdes.)
Gdes. 1.00      =  US$0.20
Gdes. 5.00      =  US$1.00
Gdes 1 million  =  US$200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                     British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m.)                         =     3.281 feet (ft:.)
1 cubic meter (i3)                   -     35.32 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kg.                                =     2.206 pounds (lb.)
I ton (t); metric; 1,000 kg)               1.100 short tcns (sh. ton)
Glossary oif Abbreviations
BDL                  Housing Bank
CAMEP           =    Metropolitan Water Authority
DATPE                Land Use Management and Environmental Protection
Agency
DTPTC                Department of Public Works, Transportation and
Communication
EDH                   National Electrical Utility
EPPLS                 Public Social Eousing Promotion Company
GOH                  Government of F[aiti
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
ILO                  International Labor Organization
KfW                   German Reconstruction Loan Corporation
MPW                  Ministry of Public Works
ONL                   National Housing Office
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PAHO                 Pan American Health Organization
SAGMAP               Metropolitan Market Management Agency
~SCUD                 Special Commission for Urban Development
SNEP            =    National Water Authority
SPU                  Urban Planning Service
UNCDF           =    United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP            =    United Nations Development Program
UNESCO          =    United Nations Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           =    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1st - September 30th



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE CONTEXT  ...............................................                          1
Urban Developments and Trends  ............................                          1
Urban Poverty  .        ...........................................                  1
Urban Policy and Institutions  ............................                          3
Activities of Other Lenders in Urban Development                    .........        5
IDA Involvement in Urban Development in Haiti ....                  ........         5
Project Composition and Rationale  ........................                          5
II.   THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK  ...............................                          7
The Creation of SAGMAP ....................................                          7
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance for the
EPPLS ......................................................                         9
III.   THE CDB MARKET UPGRADING AND SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENTS.                          11
The Croix-des-Bossales Market Component ....................                        11
The Sites and Services Component ..........................                         13
IV.  PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN ...................                        15
Estimated Costs  ............................................                       15
Project Financing  ..........................................                       15
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................                                  18
Sites  and Services  .........................................                      18
CDB Market .................................................                        18
Inter-Institutional Agreements  .............................                       19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Haiti  in June/July  1982.   The mission  was made up of R.  Chavez  (chief  of
mission), P. Midgley, M. Plessis-Fraissard, LCPUR; R. Samayoa, J. Ladd,
CONS; A. Frangois and G. Yabrudy assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Table of Contents
Page No.
Procurement        ........................     ........................        20
Disbursements ......................., 21
Accounts and Auditing                ......................                     22
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, COST RECO'VERY AND AFFORDABILIi'Y .... ....                  23
SAGIMAP ....                                                                    23
EPPLS  ....  .................................................                  23
Cost Recovery ....................................., , .                        24
Affordability .................................... I                            25
Eligibility ....................................                      ,, 26
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ....................................                       27
General Benefits ....................................                           27
Economic Costs and Benefits .................................                   27
Poverty Impact ....................................                             28
Environmental Impact .......................................                    30
Project Risks ............                                   .                  30
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................................                    30
IX.  ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. Project File
ANNEX 2. Detailed Cost Tables
ANNEX 3. Key Indicators
ANNEX 4. SAGMAP Organizational Chart and Operational Procedures
ANNEX 5. EPPLS Organizationa:L Chart
ANNEX 6.  CDB Market Upgrading Detailed Description
ANNEX 7.  Sites and Services Detailed Description
ANNEX 8. Technical Assistance to the EPPLS
Maps & Plans
IBRD 16756         Metropolitan Port-au-Prince, Project Locations
IBRD 16757         Plan of the CDB market
IBRD 16758         Plan of Cap-Haitien Sites and Services
IBRD 16759         Plan of Les Cayes Sites and Services
IBRD 16760         Plan of Linthau II Sites and Services



HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE CONTEXT
Urban Developments and Trends
1.01       While Haiti is one of the least urbanized countries in the West-
ern hemisphere, its urban growth has been both rapid and heavily concen-
trated in the capital, Port-au-Prince.   Over the past decade, the popula-
tion of the urban areas has grown at 4.1% p.a. compared to a rural growth
rate of 1.1% and a national average of 1.8% p.a.--up from 1.6% p.a. for the
1950-1971 period.   And although the urban population is estimated  at a
comparatively modest 26% of the total population of 5.3 million in 1982,
its share is growing; in 1971 it was only 20.3%.
1.02      Of the nation's approximately 1.4 million urban inhabitants, the
Port-au-Prince  metropolitan  area accounts  for  about 900,000.   Port-au-
Prince is some 12 times greater in size than Cap-Haitien, the next largest
city--and the predominance of the capital is still increasing with annual
growth rates of 5 to 6%, compared to about 3% p.a. for other cities (see
Table 1 below). This growth reflects the centralization of government ser-
vices and expenditures, as well as the concentration of economic activi-
ties.  Thus, some 40% of GDP (85% of total industrial output, 60% of com-
merce, 70% of housing and real estate, and 70% of government services and
administration) is generated within the boundaries of the metropolitan
area. While manufacturing makes less of a contribution to the economy than
elsewhere in Latin America (17.8% of GDP in 1981) 92% of all modern sector
manufacturing employment is concentrated in Port-au-Prince. About half of
all Government-supported development and recurrent expenditures for FY
75-76, the latest available estimates, directly or indirectly benefited the
capital region.
Urban Poverty
1.03       With an estimated GNP per capita of US$270 in 1981, Haiti is the
poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.   The situation of the poor re-
flects the extremely uneven distribution of income: the top 0.8% of the
population controlled 44% of all income in 1976, and it was estimated that
while 74% of the population had an income below the absolute poverty
threshold, about 4,000 families had annual incomes exceeding US$90,000.
More than 60% of the Haitian population in 1976 lived in relative poverty,
i.e., at or below an income level equal to one-third of average per capita
income. In terms of actual income, United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
estimated in 1980 that 70% of the households of Port-au-Prince had average
incomes of US$70 equivalent per month or less; in other cities the level
was even lower.



-2-
TABLE 1. Estimated Urban Population a/
Growth Rate p.a.   Population    % of Total    % of Total
%                           Urban Pop.   Natlh Pop.
Port-au-Prince            5.6             884,996         64.6         16.8
Cap-Haitien               3.0              64,236          4.7          1.2
Gonaives                  3.0              43,142          3.2          0.8
Les Cayes                 3.0              29,991          2.2          0.6
Other urban areas b/    3.0               346,924         25.5          6.6
Total urban pop.       4.1            1,369,289        100.0         26.0
Total rural pop.       1.1            3,899,532           -          74.0
Total nat. pop.         1.8           5,268,821           -         100.0
a/ All estimates on the dimensions of urban development, above and in this
table, are based on the results of the 1971 census and the update pro-
vided by  the 1977-IBRD  urban sector  survey.   Other  estimates  vary
rather widely.
b/  Other urban areas include the remaining four departmental capitals and
18 other towns.
1.04      Shelter and Urban Services in Port-au-Prince.  Some two-thirds of
the population of Port-au-Prince live in sordid, overcrowded slums which
generally lack water, sewerage and electricity.  About 13% of all dwelling
units are made of scrap materials, 19% of wattle and straw, and another 32%
of wood.  More than three-quarters of the homes in the city are not con-
nected to the water supply system. Some residential densities exceed 1,600
persons per ha., and nearly half the population resides in neighborhoods
where densities  exceed 800 persons per ha.   About 61% of all dwellings
offer less than 3 m2 per inhabitant.  There is no waterborne sewerage sys-
tem, and most of the population use! pit latrines.
1.05       In the context of the urban system of Port-au-Prince, the Croix-
des-Bossales (CDB) market is the single most important element affecting
the lives of the largest concentraition of urban poor in the country.   It
extends over a mud plain between the new port and the old downtown area,
spilling over into adjacent streets.   The market area includes a retail
market with some 14,000 merchants, storage facilities, a major inter-urban
truck and bus terminal, and a wholesale market through -which more than two-
thirds of the food and manufactured goods for domestic use in Port-au-
Prince are commercialized.  Although it caters to all the economic groups
of the population, directly or through the hotels  and  restaurants,  the



-3-
market is of particular importance to the poorest segment of the metropoli-
tan population, 72% of whom live within walking distance.  Besides provid-
ing the food, fuel, clothing and building materials that the urban poor
consume, the market is the single largest source of employment and commer-
cial and social interaction and the most serious source of disease and con-
tamination for the hundreds of families living nearby, and indirectly for
the whole metropolitan area.
1.06       Shelter and Urban Services in Secondary Cities.  Conditions in
other cities are exemplified by those in Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes.   In
Cap-Haitien, 39% of dwellings in the La Fossette slum are of wattle and
straw construction, 42% of wood and scrap material, and 19% of cement.
Density is about 1,500 persons per ha. and more recent dwellings have been
built up the sides of the surrounding foothills   aggravating an already
severe erosion and drainage problem. Seventy-two percent of all dwellings
have no running water, 58% have no electricity, and 43% have no sanitary
facilities.    Pit latrines  are shared by many families  and are poorly
maintained. In the low-income neighborhoods of Les Cayes, 31% of all dwel-
:Lings are wattle and straw, while 67% are made of more durable materials.
Densities are much lower here at about 305 persons per ha. Fifty-four per-
cent of all low-income residents of Les Cayes use polluted well or river
water; another 35% buy water from vendors. One-third have no latrines, and
87% have no electricity.  Stagnant water poses a major sanitation problem.
Urban Policy and Institutions
1.07      Urban Strategy.  During the past three years, the government has
undertaken considerable efforts to define an urban strategy and to create
the institutional framework for its implementation. Apart from restructur-
ing the National Housing Office (ONL), in 1982, a comprehensive law was
adopted, establishing the basis for administrative decentralization and the
creation of regional commissions and institutions for planning and develop-
ment. The Government is committed to supporting the growth of secondary
cities, while increasing the share of agriculture in development expendi-
tures at the same time.  This strategy faces serious resource constraints.
Efficient decentralization of nonagricultural employment, particularly in
manufacturing, would require levels of investment in infrastructure and
social services not attainable at this time.  Also, deficits in employment,
housing, and urban services in Port-au-Prince will continue to require
prompt attention.
1.08       Urban Planning.  Primary responsibility for urban planning func-
tions rests with the Urban Planning Division (SPU) of the Ministry of
Public Works, Transport, and Communications (DTPTC), while the Division of
Regional Planning and Environmental Protection (DATPE) of the Ministry of
Planning, has general urban development advisory functions. SPU also pre-
pares urban projects, controls their implementation, and establishes norms
for land use, urban infrastructure, commercial, industrial and residential
construction.   In addition,  the Special Committee for Urban Development
(SCUD), which was established to monitor the preparation of the proposed
IDA-supported project and which includes the directors of SPU, DATPE and
ONL, has worked for increased coordination and a sharper government focus
on urban problems and their solutions.



-4-
1.09       Housing.  In 1966, the N,ational Housing Office (ONL) was created
as a semi-autonomous agency attached to the Ministry of Social Affairs. It
was  transformed  in 1982 to the Public Social Housing; Promotion Company
(EPPLS). ONL's mandate was to build, maintain and manage housing projects
for all income groups, but in practice, the office maintained and managed
housing projects planned, built and financed by other agencies.   Through
the years, it has been a weak institution but recent reorganization under-
taken in preparation for the proposed project has resulted in improve-
ments.   In addition to ONL, a Housing Bank (BDL) has been recently estab-
lished but is not yet operational.   It is under-capitalized and its tasks
have not yet been well defined, particularly regarding low-income housing.
USAID has taken an interest in BDL and is presently evaluating the possibi-
lity of providing financial assistance for building new homes for middle-
income families in Port-au-Prince.
1.10         Environmental Management and Water Supply.   The interreLated
issues of erosion, drainage, solid and liquid waste removal directly and
indirectly involve a number of public agencies.   Erosion control in both
rural and urban areas is the responsibility of the Soil Conservation Office
of the Ministry of Agriculture.   Construction and maintenance of urban
drainage systems, streets and bridges, is assigned to the municipal engi-
neering office of the DTPTC, which, to the extent that significant amounts
of waste accumulate in the drainage system, is also involved in solid waste
removal.   The efficiency of the environmental services provided by ihese
agencies is hampered by the use of inappropriate equipment and materials.
In Port-au-Prince, the Metropolitan Water Company (CAMEP), is responsible
for the water supply system.  CAMEP's management is weak and its financial
resources are inadequate.  It is thus unable to carry out effective main-
tenance and repair work or to undertake systematic planning.  In provincial
cities, responsibilities for water supply have been given to the recently
created National Water Service, SNE]P (National Water Authority), which is
currently implementing an IDA-assisted water supply project in ten provin-
cial cities.
1.11       Municipal Government.  Municipal governments, including those of
the four municipalities that make up the metropolitan area of Port-au-
Prince, are under tutelage from the central Government.  Their responsibi-
lities are restricted to the administration of a few urban services, such
as collection and disposal of garbage.  Their staffs are insufficient and
inadequately trained.  Their financial positions are precarious; more than
half of their revenues come from taxes earmarked for the municipalities
and collected by the Ministry of Finance, such as the property tax and the
license tax on enterprises.   The remainder consists essentially of grants
from the central Government.  In real terms, revenues from local taxes have
been falling in recent years and tax collections are inefficient.   The
results ate inadequate urban services and lack of infrastructure.  Central
Government control may not be desirable in the municipalities of the
secondary cities, and their administrative capacity should therefore be in-
creased. In contrast, however, Government management of the Port-au-Prince
metropolitan  area  might  prove  more  efficient,  if  properly  developed,
because of the number of municipalities and levels of authority involvel.



-5-
Activities of Other Lenders in Urban Development
1.12       Involvement in the urban sector is a relatively new undertaking
for most donor agencies. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and
the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) jointly financed the
St. Martin upgrading and Drouillard sites and services projects in Port-au-
Prince in 1978. The EPPLS, with consultant support, is now completing the
St. Martin upgrading project, and the Drouillard sites and services project
is well under way.   KfW,  the German Reconstruction Loan Corporation has
supported the preparation of a master plan for upgrading Cite Simone in
]?ort-au-Prince and will support a sites and services project there as well
and may also support an upgrading project in Cap-Haitien.   As noted  in
para. 1.10, the National Water Service (SNEP) is currently implementing a
water supply project for 10 secondary cities with assistance from IDA and
UNCDF totaling US$6.6 million. In 1979, the IDB approved a US$48.5 million
loan to help further the improvement of the Port-au-Prince storm drainage
system.  Finally, UNICEF is now identifying a project to provide improved
sanitation, health and nutrition education, job training, and the formation
of small-scale manufacturing cooperatives to benefit women and children in
the low-income neighborhoods of Port-au-Prince.
IDA Involvement in Urban Development in Haiti
1.13       IDA's approach to the urban sector is based on the findings of
the urban sector survey conducted in 1977.  It concluded that in view of
Limited resources for development, policies of spatial decentralization
should be approached cautiously,  progressively and selectively.   In the
short and the medium term, the major priority should be employment creation
and the provision of urban services in Port-au-Prince.  At the same time,
however,  institutional  capacity  and  basic  infrastructure  should  be
developed in selected provincial cities.  A first urban project should be
conceived within the framework of the following general objectives:  (a) to
alleviate the poverty of the urban masses--i.e., generate the greatest
possible impact on the urban poor--a corrective measure; (b) to strengthen
or develop policies and institutions to deal with the urban problems of the
future--a prescriptive measure; and, (c) to support current government
policies and lending activities of other agencies related to the above
efforts.
Project Composition and Rationale
1.14      The proposed project would include the following components:
(a)   rehabilitation  and  upgrading  of  the  Croix-des-Bossales  (CDB)
central market area (about 12 ha) in Port-au-Prince;
(b)   relocation of 1,036 families displaced by the upgrading of the
market, to a sites and services project in the capital;
(c)   pilot sites and services project for 1,093 low-income families in
Cap-Haitien;
(d)   pilot sites and services project for 278 low-income families in
Les Cayes;



-6-
(e)   limited  technical  and  fiLnancial  support  for the institutional
development of a metropolitan market management agency (SAGMAP);
and
(f) technical assistance, tra:ining and equipment f'or the institution-
al reorganization and development of the Putblic Social Housing
Promotion Company (EPPLS),, formerly the ONL.
The basic premises underlying this strategy for supporting urban develop-
ment in Haiti are described below.
1.15       The Croix-des-Bossales market upgrading would include the con-
struction of a wholesale market, two. retail markets and an open-air
market.  Today, besides providing the goods that the urban poor consume,
the Croix-des-Bossales market is also the single largest source of employ-
ment and the center of commercial activity in the metropolitan area.
Within this context, the CDB is the focal point for the largest low-income
concentrations in the capital--St. Flartin and Bel-Air to the east, and Cit6
Simone and its environs to the north--and a key structural element of the
metropolitan area.   The proposed project to upgrade and develop the CDB
market would have a major potential impact on welfare and on the functional
efficiency of the metropolitan area as a whole.   In addition, the market
management agency, SAGMAP, would initially operate the CDB market and even-
tually incorporate and upgrade the other retail markets in the capital,
thus increasing the impact of this corrective intervention.
1.16       Sites and Services.  There is an intimate link between the CDB
investments and the proposed sites and services scheme in Port-au-Prince.
The CDB rehabilitation and expansion requires the relocation of over 1,000
low-income families; the sites and services component is designed to help
relocate these families without diminishing the capital's low-income hous-
ing stock, and also to carry out pilot shelter projects in two secondary
cities. This component would provide a vehicle for strengthening the EPPLS
through financial and administrative discipline and enhanced design and im-
plementing capacity.    This would  be  the institutional cornerstone for
future shelter development in the country and would also support and guide
a number of ongoing and planned investments by other donor agencies.
1.17        The proposed project wou:Ld generate short- and long-term bene-
fits.  The short-term benefits would derive from the physical investments
directly affecting the largely low-income beneficiaries.  The longer-term
benefits would be related  to guiding the development of urbanization in
Haiti. First, the creation of an effective metropolitan market management
authority would point to a relevant solution for the development of other
sectors in managing the development of Port-au-Prince. A city-wide agency
such as this would be responsible to the central Government and this, given
the dominance of Port-au-Prince in Haiti's urban system, seems appro-
priate.  Second, the project would focus on the CDB market because of its
importance in the metropolitan capital area, but it would also lay the
basis for the longer-term development of a market system in the city.
Third, the direct link between the market and the sites and services com-
ponents would provide the need for and opportunity to develop the national
housing agency.  Fourth, extending t'he housing component of the project to



-7-
the secondary cities of Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes would be consistent with
the policy of supporting the development of provincial cities on a select-
ive basis by providing housing and services.
II. THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
The Creation of SAGMAP
2.01      The markets of Port-au-Prince are currently the responsibility of
the four municipalities that make up the metropolitan area. Although the
CDB, by virtue of sheer size, presents the most serious problems, other
markets in the capital are not much better off.  Against this background,
the proposed project would include the establishment of an autonomous,
city-wide market operating agency, the "Socifte Autonome de Gestion des
Marches de l'Aire de Port-au-Prince", or SAGMAP. The role of such an agen-
cy would be threefold, initially with respect to the CDB and eventually to
the rest of the markets in the metropolitan area:   operation and mainte-
nance;  financial management;  and security and surveillance.   In carrying
out these functions, SAGMAP would coordinate its efforts with a series of
other Government agencies, including the Departments of Agriculture, Public
Health, Interior, Economics and Industry, as well as with public utilities
and municipal services such as water, power and garbage collection. SAGMAP
would not be responsible for other important functions, including setting
and controlling food prices and establishing hygiene standards for market
planning, which would remain the province of the relevant governmental
agencies.
2.02       Parallel to the creation of SAGMAP, the proposed project contem-
plates the upgrading of the central CDB market.   As an autonomous, city-
wide agency, SAGMAP would generate sufficient profits through the operation
of the improved CDB market to begin to upgrade the 30 or so secondary mu-
nicipal markets in the metropolitan area. As these markets are upgraded--
introducing water, sanitation and the modernization of the facilities--they
would be incorporated legally, and operated by SAGMAP.  The fees collected
from vendors in the improved markets would serve to finance the upgrading
of others.
2.03      Charter.  As an autonomous government agency charged with operat-
ing the markets of the metropolitan area, SAGMAP would be constituted
legally in the form of a "Socift6 Publique Propriftaire" or Public Owner-
ship Society.   This would allow SAGMAP to provide a public service while
conducting its affairs like a private corporation--albeit owned by the
Government.   The Public Ownership Society would have the following advan-
tages:   (a) it would clearly define and separate the responsibilities of
SAGMAP from those of other Government agencies; (b) it would provide finan-
cial autonomy which would allow SAGMAP to relate its fees to costs; and,
(c) it would encourage operational efficiency.
2.04      Financial autonomy would not exempt SAGMAP from a measure of con-
trol by Government, because it would be accountable to the Government
through its proposed parent ministry, the Ministry of Interior.   In addi-
tion, SAGMAP would be subjected to budgetary control, through its board of



-8-
directors, by the Ministry of Finance. Finally, SAGMMP would be audited by
external auditors named by this Ministry. Certain investment responsLbili-
ties would be included in SAGMAP's charter, i.e., to maintain its physical
plant, and to gradually upgrade ancl incorporate the physical faciliti'es of
all other markets in the metropolitan area.  To this effect, SAGMAP would
establish fees and tariffs necessary to preserve its physical plant and to
guarantee the fulfillment of its operational responsi'bilities (para. 8.01
(d)).    The  proposal  outlined  above  is detailed  in  the  draft  decree
establishing SAGMAP.1/   Establishment of 'SAGMAP would' be a condition of
effectiveness of the credit (para. 8.02 (a)).
2.05        Design Criteria.   Local conditions require that special design
criteria be observed.   The system should be responsive to human resource
constraints, including the shortage of qualified personnel, and the fact
that a large part of the population is illiterate;  rules, for instrance,
should  therefore be  simple  to  urnderstand  and  apply.    Given  the weak
economic environment, and the low elasticity of demand with regard to
consumer prices, the proposed scheme of financial self management requires
that investment and operating costs should be minimized in order that
tariffs and fees can be kept as low as possible. This means that even some
desirable services, such as health lposts or day care centers, would ha've to
be excluded.   Finally, given the changes foreseen in SAGMAP's operations
(involving the growth of the market system), the proposed structure should
be flexible and adaptable.
2.06       Organizational Structure.  The proposed organizational structure
of SAGMAP responds to the particular needs of the entity by taking account
of three chief principles: (a) efficiency; (b) adaptability; and, (c) sim-
plicity.   On the basis of these principles, a functional  structure w7as
selected, i.e., one in which staff would be specialized by function rather
than area.  This seems well adapted to the initially centralized nature of
operations in a market such as the CDB, and to the limited skills required
of supervisors. This type of struct:ure also suggests that nonroutine acti-
vities, such as major repairs which are relatively specialized and/or re-
quire special equipment, would be contracted out by SAGMAP.  The organiza-
tional chart of the proposed SAGMAP is shown in Annex 4, page 1.
2.07       The proposed organizational structure has two functional blocks:
administration and operations. The administrative block comprises all sup-
port services to operations, such as accounting, personnel and hygiene.
This block reports directly to the Director General. The operational block
carries out the services necessary for the functioning of the market:
maintenance, collections and security.   Given the larger number of staff
assigned to operations, this block is under a Director of Operations.,  In
addition, a consultative committee of market users (CCUM), made up by
elected representatives of staff and of depot holders, would have direct
access to the Director of Operations to submit suggestions or lodge com-
plaints.
2.08        The Board of Directors would be made up of:   the Minister of
Interior as President; the Ministers of Finance, Agriculture and Public
Health; the mayors of Port-au-Prince and of other municipalities, as they
1/   The draft decree, as well as the architectural arLd engineering pro-
jects for the CDB market, were prepared by consultants and financed by
the PPF (for documentation available in the Project File see Annex 1).



-9--
are incorporated, and the Director General of SAGMAP.  Its responsibilities
would include:  administrative and financial organization and management of
SAGMAP; approval of recruitment and remuneration norms; approval of annual
budgets; establishment of tariffs; approval of annual financial statements;
and approval of the expansion program to the other areas of Port-au-
Prince.   Details concerning the composition and functions of the General
Directorate and the Directorate of Operations, as well as the operational
procedures, which include maintenance, revenue collection and control, and
security and surveillance, are given in Annex 4.
2.09       Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be provided to
prepare the personnel and operational manuals and SAGMAP's initial budget,
and to train the newly recruited staff of the agency.   About eight man-
months of specialized consulting time would be needed to develop SAGMAP's
rules and operating procedures in these manuals; two man-months would be
invested in preparing SAGMAP's detailed operating budget for submission to
the Board of Directors; and four man-months would be required to train the
new staff, in specialty groups and as contracted.  The Special Commission
for Urban Development (SCUD) established in 1981 would contract and co-
ordinate the services provided by consultants within 18 months after credit
signature (para. 8.01 (1)).
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance for the EPPLS
2.10      Background.  The ONL (National Housing Office) was established in
1966 as a semi-autonomous agency attached to the Ministry of Social Affairs
to build, maintain and manage low-cost housing for middle to low-income
families.   In practice, ONL's activities were confined to the maintenance
and management of housing projects planned, built and financed by other
state agencies, and consequently, ONL did not acquire much experience in
housing development. Following an institutional diagnostic study of ONL by
consultants in 19802/, the agency was reorganized in March 1981.  The re-
organization of ONL7coincided with the execution of the UNDP/UNCDF shelter
project in St. Martin and Drouillard,  which began in March 1979.   As
executor of this project (which will affect some 25,000 low-income resi-
dents of Port-au-Prince) the ONL gained first hand experience in planning
and implementing a complex upgrading/sites and services project.
2.11       Although the initial reorganization of ONL considerably improved
the management of the agency, a subsequent analysis of management proce-
dures undertaken by consultants,3/ revealed the need for greater autonomy
in ONL operations, especially in financial management, and a more stream-
lined administrative system for the design, execution and management of
low-income shelter projects. The consultant's proposals have been reviewed
2/   The institutional  diagnosis was financed by the IDA Project Prepara-
tion Facility as the first step in determining the eventual restruc-
turing of the ONL (see Annex 1, Project File).
3/   "Etude de l'Appui Institutionnel de l'ONL, SEMA, mars 1982."   This
study was also financed by the IDA Project Preparation Facility to
provide a basis for restructuring of the ONL, linking it to the pro-
posed IDA-supported project, and to projects financed by such other
agencies as UNDP and KfW.



-10-
and approved by ONL, by the GoverrLment and by IDA and are incorporated in
the law concerning the further restructuring of ONL which provides the
basis for the institutional development program in the proposed project.
The law transforming the ONL into the EPPLS (Public Social Housing Promo-
tion Company) was passed on November 27, 1982.
2.12        Institutional Development Program for EPPLS.  The fundamental
objective of the institutional development program would be to provide the
EPPLS with the managerial and financial autonomy necessary to operate as an
enterprise responsible for the production of housing in such a manner that
income generated from housing sales or rentals would be sufficient to re-
cover investment costs and replicate housing production programs, which are
targetted to low-income families.  The strengthening of EPPLS would enable
the agency to develop and manage low-income shelter projects with less re-
liance on subsidies. The entrepreneurial approach to EPPLS' operations is
an important element of the law4! and is the raison d'etre of the revised
administrative organization and procedures of the new EPPLS. This approach
would also require considerable changes in the staffing of EPPLS to reflect
revised procedures and functional activities.
2.13       On the basis of the law, the EPPLS would be an autonomous public
agency ("Organisme public autonome et permanent"), within the administra-
tive jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Affairs.  The responsibilities
of EPPLS would comprise:   (a) within the context of national housing  pol-
icies, the preparation, programming, implementation and management of so-
cial housing projects destined for ILow-income populations; (b) the prepara-
tion of annual programs designed to progressively resolve the housing pro-
blems of low-income families and individuals and to carry out studies de-
signed to identify target groups for EPPLS programs; and, (c) to manage so-
cial housing projects according to the standards necessary to ensure econo-
mic returns on investment and full-cost recovery, and to enter into rental-
sales agreements concerning housing projects.
2.14        Organizational Structure.   EPPLS   would be administered by a
five-member Board comprising the Executive Director of EPPLS, the Director
General of the National Budget, the Director of Urban Planning Services
(SPU/DTPTC), the Director General of the Department of Territorial Manage-
ment (DATPE), and the Secretary General of the Department of Social
Affairs. The Executive Director would be responsible for the overall admi-
nistration and management of EPPLS.   He would be assisted by a general
manager ("Directeur general adjoint"), who would be reslponsible for opera-
tions and management of EPPLS and by a Financial Controller who would be
responsible for all financial aspeclts of EPPLS operations.  Specific proj-
ect management would be the responsibility of project managers.   Project
support services, such as social workers, architectural and engineering
design, or procurement, would be coordinated and controlled by the general
manager. The proposed organizational chart is shown in Annex 5.
2.15         Organizational Procedures.  The principal functions of EPPLS
are project identification, preparation, supervision and management. EPPLS
4/   Available in the Project File (see Annex 1).



-ii-
procedures would be designed to respond to these requirements through proj-
ect 'teams' with staff drawn from support service units, according to the
specific requirements at each phase of project processing. Project manage-
ment continuity would be assured by each project manager who would have
responsibility for one (or more) projects from identification through to
completion and commercialization of the project. Each project would have a
preparation/supervision/management budget to cover staff costs. Each proj-
ect manager would draw specialist services into the project 'team'.  Sup-
port service staff would be charged to the project budget according to sup-
port service staff costs and overheads as if each support service unit were
a separate 'consultancy'.  These procedures would not only ensure an effi-
cient use of specialist staff but would also ensure effective cost account-
ing for EPPLS as a whole and for each project's accounts.
2.16      Staffing.  The transformation of the ONL into the EPPLS would in-
volve the restructuring of present staff positions and the removal of those
staff  who have been recruited in the past but whose services are no longer
compatible with the new functions of EPPLS.   The remaining technical and
support staff would be redeployed according to the structure shown in Annex
5.  Five additional staff positions would be filled to complete the staff-
ing plan:   a deputy financial controller; a deputy sociologist; an archi-
tect; a chief accountant;  and a project manager.   Candidates  for these
positions have been identified from within EPPLS' present staff and from
outside. These positions would be filled by March 1983.
2.17      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be required to
assist EPPLS in its initial operations and to help train its staff.  The
following four specialists would be contracted no later than three months
after credit signature (para 8.01 (1)):   (a) management advisor (24 man-
months); (b) financial analyst (24 man-months); (c) engineering advisor (18
man-months); and, sociologist (12 man-months).   With the exception of the
management advisor, the specialists would ensure line function responsibi-
lity for the first 50% of their assignments with an EPPLS staff member act-
ing as counterpart and deputy. For the remaining 50% of their assignments,
the EPPLS staff member would take full time responsibility and the special-
ist would act as deputy with the specific role of training EPPLS staff.
The management advisor would not have line responsibility but would advise
the Executive Director and General Manager.
2.18        Training.   Training programs would be required to develop the
technical and professional skills of EPPLS staff.  The following training
activities would be provided under the project (see Annex 8, page 1):  (a)
4 seminars for engineers; (b) 14 study tours of low-income housing projects
in Central America, South America, Africa and Asia for EPPLS project
managers, architects and engineers; and (c) on-the-job training overseas
for 4 EPPLS senior technicians.
III. THE CDB MARKET UPGRADING AND SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENTS
The Croix-des-Bossales Market Component
3.01        The food trading system in Port-au-Prince is extremely complex
and follows numerous, mostly informal, patterns directly involving a varie-
ty of factors.   These and other trading activities represent the major



-12-
source of employment for the poorest and least qualified 60% of the labor
force.  Among the many public markets in metropolitan Port-au-Prince (the
number of which has increased from 23 in 1973 to 30 in 1982), the Croix-
des-Bossales market is by far the most important, where 750 tons of goods
are traded daily.   It includes a retail market with some 14,0005/ mer-
chants and 80,000 purchasers, storage facilities, and a wholesale-market
through which are sold more than two-thirds of the food and manufactured
goods for domestic use in Port-au-Prince.  It also serves as a redistribu-
tion center for about 30% of its traded goods which are channeled towards
dozens of other markets in the metropolitan area.
3.02       The market functions depend to an important extent on a network
of 158 warehouses or depots which have an average area of about 35 m2. Of
these, only 111 are in the market area.  The buyers and merchants in the
adjacent streets tie-up pedestrian and vehicular traffic amidst a confusioni
of trucks, buses and hand carts called 'brouettes' (see IBRD Map 16757).
The absence of drainage and sanitation is worsened by the density of occu
pation and by its location in the drainage basin of the northern part of
the city. Business is conducted among heaps of rotting garbage and puddles
of raw sewage.  The peculiar stench of the market is overpowering during
the rainy season when large areas are flooded with sewage.
3.03         Aiming at resolving these problems and meeting the projected
needs of installed vendors (whose number is expected to increase from 8,000
today to 11,500 in 1990) and of the volume of goods stored and sold
(200,000 tons rising to 248,000 tons in the same period), the development
of the CDB market system would be divided in two phases:   (a) the first
phase would provide for a wholesale market located on the northern extreme
of the existing market area; two covered retail markets for about 5,200
merchants; and one open air retail market with basic services for over
3,000 vendors.   This  first phase would  also  include the administrative
building and a building for public dlormitories adjacent to the market; (b)
the second phase would remove the wholesale market to a new facility to be
built on land currently occupied by the old military airport of Chancerel-
les, about one km. northeast of the CDB (see IBRD Map 16757);  this site
would become the property of SAGMAP no later than December 31, 1983 (para.
8.01 (i)).   This would allow for the conversion of the initial wholesale
market into a retail facility--which would be increased by building another
retail building, the Marche MacajouX, on the site of the proposed open-air
market.  In any case, the current CDB would eventually become a purely re-
tail market capable of housing over 12,000 vendors. The object of the IDA-
supported project would be to complete the first phase of the CDB upgrading
and development.   The second phase of the project would begin one or two
years after completion of the first, possibly as part of the next in a
series of urban projects.   A summary description of the first phase fol-
lows; a detailed description of the proposal is included in Annex 6.
3.04        The Site.   During the preparation of the proposed project an
economic analysis was conducted to determine the optimum location for the
5/   Surveys conducted by the consultant preparing the project indicated
that on any given day, 8,272 of these 14,000 vendors were installed
merchants while 5,760 were ambulatory merchants.



-13-
market. The analysis, coinciding with the physical planning view, indicat-
ed that the existing location of the CDB was the best site for the new mar-
ket.   The site, which is just under 12 ha., already belongs to the muni-
cipality. However, the clearing of the site would require indemnifying the
owners of various types of buildings although indemnization, which would
cost an estimated average of US$50/m2, would cover only the buildings,
since the land they are built on (illegally) belongs to the Government.
The most serious problem is the large number of dwellings involved.  There
are 1,053 families occupying 644 dwellings, only about 30% of which are
owned by the occupants.  The rest are rented.  The owners would therefore
be indemnified, but the occupants would be relocated to nearby serviced
sites (see paras. 3.09 - 3.15).
:3.05      The Wholesale Market.  Designed to be eventually converted to a
retail facility, the wholesale market would consist of two long parallel
buildings with a net storage capacity of 4,400 m2.  The wholesale market
could accommodate 15% more depots than those displaced by the market, with
greatly increased convenience and efficiency.  In addition, by concentrat-
ing the wholesale depots in one area, and separating transport of passen-
gers and freight, this development would help alleviate vehicular conges-
tion in the downtown area (see IBRD Map 16757).
3.06        The Retail Markets.   This subcomponent involves two groups of
buildings or markets for retail purposes, which would be located in the
center of the new CDB.  They are also the only two 'permanent' installa-
tions inasmuch as the wholesale and open air markets are specifically
designed to be eventually modified, whereas these are not.  The St. Joseph
market with a total area of 11,567 m2 and Remparts with 8,757 m2, would ac-
commodate a total of 5,233 vendors.
3.07      The Open Air Market.  Complementing the 'covered' retail markets,
the Macajoux market would provide a large open area (12,527 m2) to accom-
modate up to 1.5 times the overflow of installed retail merchants, estimat-
ed to number about 3,000.   The paved,  fenced-in area would  have storm
drainage, water taps and sanitary modules, which, besides providing the de-
sired sanitary environment, would allow for the collection of fees.   The
open-air market would also accommodate the passenger transport terminal.
The terminal would eventually be moved to the old Gare MacDonald located
nearby.   The facility would be reserved  for such use by the Government
(para. 8.01 (j)).
3.08        Sanitation.  A major problem in upgrading the market is water
supply.  The proposed project would combine different systems to meet the
demands of a population of 10,000 vendors.   Six sanitary modules would be
strategically located  throughout the market.   Each would consist of 12
Turkish style latrines over a 60 cm duct which would be flushed automatic-
ally every five or six minutes by a simple siphon.
The Sites and Services Component
3.09       As noted in para. 3.04, preparing the site for the proposed dev-
elopment of the CDB market would require that 644 dwellings be demolished.
The-proposed sites and services component recognizes that urban development
projects, whatever their overall goals and objectives, should not reduce



-14-
the low-income housing stock. This implies that Government policy to date,
i.e., the simple indemnification of dwelling owners, would no longer
serve.   Thus, a site, known as Linthau II would be developed prior to up-
grading of the market to relocate i-amilies from the Crcix-des-Bossales (see
IBRD Map 16756).
3.10      The scope and scale of the sites and services component, however,
also reflects the fact that during project preparation,  important changes
were taking place in the sector.   The Government's first experience with
low-income shelter was being carried out, supported by UNDP and the UNCDF
(see paras. 1.12 and 2.10), and other international agencies were beginning
to take an interest in urban shelter, such as KfW through its support for
the Cite Simone Master Plan (see para. 1.12).   To take advantage of the
challenge posed by the need to relocate families from the Croix-des-
Bossales site and to turn it into an opportunity to develop institutional
capacity to provide low-income housing, it was decided that the component
should be of sufficient scale to have an impact on the development of EPPLS
and provide a framework for future investments supported by other donors.
To achieve this, and in support of Government strategy, the pilot projects
in Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes were also therefore inc:Luded.   The planned
support by KfW of a sites and services project in Port-au-Prince, and of a
not yet confirmed upgrading projeci: in Cap-Haitien, would multiply the im-
pact  of  the  IDA  component,  in  effect  making  the  Latter  and  IDA  co-
financiers of urban development.   The component is sum[marized in the fol-
lowing paragraphs.  Annex 7 provides a detailed description of the compo-
nent.
3.11      The Sites and Services Schemes.  The component would involve the
production of some 2,407 units in itwo secondary cities and in the capital,
as follows:   1,093 in Cap-Haitien (see IBRD Map 16758), 278 in Les Cayes
(see IBRD Map 16759), and 1,036 in Port-au-Prince (see IBRD Map 16760).
The component was designed on the basis of the executing agency's estimated
capacity (including other ongoing or proposed projects) and took account of
the relative sizes of the cities involved.   Of the total number of lots,
86% (2,070) would be for low-income housing; the remaining 345 would be
larger lots for combined housing and commercial or industrial use and to
cross-subsidize the smaller units. Thus, the price of land and infrastruc-
ture for the latter group of 'commercial' units would 'be priced at 10% to
40% above the base cost.  The use of a cross subsidy, of very low but ade-
quate standards and of progressive development through self-help construc-
tion would allow very low-income groups to have access :o the project.
3.12       Layout.  In all these locations, the typical block would be made
up of 134 lots, with a total area of 6,720 m2 (80 m x 84 m).  The lots
would be organized  in four clusters around semi-private courtyards.   The
sanitary facilities would be at the entrance to each courtyard.  The rela-
tive value of a lot would be a function of both size anld location in a ty-
pical block.   Thus, the most inexpensive lots would be the smaller ones
and/or those that share the inner courtyard; the most expensive lots would
be the larger ones on main roads.
3.13       Dwelling Units.  In Port-au-Prince and in the other cities,  the
design standards for the lots, infrastructure and dwelling solutions would
be of the lowest possible but adequate levels.   The dwelling units would
consist of cinder block walled,  tin-roofed  single rooms with no direct



-15-
service connections but sharing communal water taps and sanitary facili-
ties.6/ However, the Linthau II scheme in Port-au-Prince would also pro-
vide a minimum bare lot solution, in order to reach the very lowest income
groups.   Given that the land would be leased, this could be in effect, a
rental unit.  It would include a 36 m2 lot in the interior of a cluster, a
wall, against which a temporary lean-to could be built, ard access to a
sanitary unit and water tap.
3.14       Sanitation.  Sanitary units would be located at the entrance of
each housing cluster and would provide collective services for every 33 or
34 lots on the basis of one latrine for every four families and a shower
for every eight to ten.  The sanitary module would also provide water taps
for cooking and washing needs, as well.as a common receptacle for garbage
disposal.
3.15        Community Facilities.   The proposed subprojects would include
basic community facilities only when no other services in the vicinity are
available.   They would be of low standard and would be flexibly designed
and would also be intended to serve not only the subproject in question but
the larger immediate area as well.
IV. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs
4.01       The total estimated project cost is US$23.8 million.  The fol-
lowing table summarizes costs by component, and includes physical and price
contingencies. The costs are estimated on the basis of 100% detailed engi-
neering for the civil works, detailed proposals for technical assistance,
and actual expenditures in the case of land and professional services (such
as studies and detailed engineering) which were financed by advances under
the Project Preparation Facility. Base costs are expressed in 1982 prices.
Physical contingencies were conservatively estimated at 10% for all civil
works. Price escalation was based on an annual rate of increase of 10% for
both foreign and local costs in 1983 tapering off by 1% yearly during the
construction period.7/ The estimated foreign component amounts to 47% of
total costs or about US$11.3 million. Cost details are given in Annex 2.
Project Financing
4.02      The project has been designed to maximize the use of locally pro-
duced materials and labor.  Nonetheless, given the scarcity of local mate-
rials, the foreign exchange component is comparatively high.  Because of
this and because of a very constrained fiscal situation, the Government is
seeking 88% participation from IDA.  This high level of IDA financing is
6/   The  design,  however,  allows  for  future  connections  of  water,
electricity and, eventually, sewerage networks as well as for the
expansion of the units.
7/   Price escalation on the construction sector has been higher than other
sectors and around 10% per annum (8% per annum for local costs and 13%
per  annum  for  foreign costs)  since June 1980.   These trends are
expected to continue, albeit at a slower rate.



-16-
EAITI
MBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs a/
Item                             Local       Foreign        Total     Foreign   Total
Market Upgrading
Studies and engineering        122.00      488.00        610.00       80       3.1
Indemnization                  800.00      -             800.00       -        4.0
Earthworks                     760.24    1,007.76      1,768.00       57       8.9
Civil works                  4,410.00    4,590.00      9,000.00       51      45.2
Implementation                 665.00      285.00        950.00       30       4.8
Subtotal                   6,757.24    6,370.76    13,128.00        49      65.9
Sites and Services
(a) Port-au-Prince
Studies and engineering         18.00       72.00         90.00       80       0.5
Land                            38.00       -             38.00       -        0.2
Earthworks                     205.88      272.92        478.80       57       2.4
Civil works                    630.28      402.97      1,033.26       39       5.2
Implementation                 155.64       66.70        222.34       30       1.1
Subtotal                   1,047.80      814459      1,862.40       44       9.4
(b) Cap-Haitien
Studies and engineering         16.00       64.00         80.00       80       0.4
Land                            49.32       -             49.32       -        0.2
Earthworks                     248.46      329.35        577.81       57       2.9
Civil works                    756.75      483.83      1,240.58       39       6.2
Material loans                  75.54       66.99        142.53       47       0.7
Implementation                 337.87      144.80        482.67       30       2.4
Subtotal                   1,483.94    1,088.97      2,572.91       42      12.9
(c) Lee Cayes
Studies and engineering         12.00       48.00         60.00       80       0.3
Lard                            13.15       -             13.15       -        0.1
Earthworks                      55.97       74.20        130.17       57       0.6
Civil works                    205.95      131.68        337.63       39       1.7
Material loans                  18.09        16.05        34.14        47      0.2
Implementation                  93.60       40.12        133.72       30       3.7
Subtotal                     398.76      310.05        708.81       44       3.6
Subtotal S & S             2,930.50    2,213.61      5,144.12       43      25.9
Institutional Development SAGMAP
Studies and engineeriug         16.00       64.00         80.00       80       0,4
Initial workaing capital       250.00      -             250.00       -      . 1.3
Pre-operating expense           81.00      -              81.00       -        0.4
Vehicles and equipment           3.50        31.50        35.00        90      0.2
Technical assistance            28.50       66.50         95.00       70       0.5
Subtotal                     379.00      162.00        541.00       30       2.7
Institutional Development EPPLS
Studies and engineering         16.00        64.00        80.00        80      0.4
Technical assistance           240.00      560.00        800.00        70      4.0
Training                       -            100.00       100.00       100      0.5
Equip. and off. facilities      10.00       90.00        100.00        90      0.5
Subtotal                     266.00      814 00      1,080.00       75       5.4
Base costs                     10,332.74    9,560.37    19,893.11
Physical contingencies            692.20       598.49     1,290.69
Price contingencies             1,498.32    1,126.63      2,624.95
TOTAL PROJECT COST             12,523.26   11,285.49    23,808.75
a!  Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties, fron which this project is  exempt.



-17-
recommended on the basis of the high foreign exchange requirements of the
project, the pressures on budgetary resources, the country's international
reserve position and the high priority attached to this project by the
Haitian Government.  It is therefore proposed that an IDA credit of US$21
million be granted to the Haitian Government,8/ which would put up the re-
maining US$2.8 million in local currency. This is reflected in the follow-
ing table:
Financial Plan
US$'000
Local        Foreign       Total
IDA (including IDA Special Fund)       9,715        11,285         21,000
Government                             2,808           -            2,808
TOTAL                               12,523        11,285         23,808
4.03       The Government would make funds available for each component as
follows (para 8.01 (a)):
(a)   The CDB market:   an equity contribution of US$15.1 million to
SAGMAP to cover the total capital investment of the CDB market
(see para. 6.02);
(b)   Sites and services:   a loan of US$4.2 million to EPPLS for the
sites and services component and a budgetary allocation of US$2.1
million for community facilities and off-site infrastructure; and
(c)   Institutional development:  grants totalling US$1.4 million would
be made available to EPPLS and SAGMAP to finance technical
assistance, staff training and equipment.
4.04       The equity contribution to SAGMAP is appropriate in view of the
need to re-invest all SAGMAP's earnings (para. 6.02).  IDA funds would be
on lent to EPPLS through a subsidiary loan agreement for 25 years at 4% in-
terest with a grace period of 3 years (para. 8.01 (a)).  This would be the
first loan contracted by EPPLS.   Housing projects undertaken by ONL had
been financed either from grant funds provided by international agencies or
from Government budgetary allocations. The 4% interest rate, although well
below the opportunity cost of capital, represents an important step towards
establishing financial discipline within the agency and should enable EPPLS
to demonstrate its ability to service loans and, over time, establish
creditworthiness. Execution of subsidiary agreements with SAGMAP and EPPLS
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para. 8.02
(b)).
8/   Of which US$13 million would be financed from the IDA Special Fund.



-18-
4.05       Project Preparation Facility and Retroactive Financing.  For the
preparation of the project, a Project Preparation Facility totalling US$1.0
million was approved between May 1979 and July 1981 for detailed engineer-
ing of the CDB market and the sites and services components.   The outlays
under the PPF are included in the cost of the proposed project.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01       The need to relocate the 1,036 families from the CDB area to the
Linthau II sites and services scheme clearly establishes a link and thus an
interdependency between the market upgrading and sites and services compo-
nents.  In order to avoid costly delays in starting the work of market up-
grading, work on the Linthau II sites and services scheme was advanced to
allow relocation of the affected families and the start of CDB earthworks
after mid 1983.   These works would be financed retroactively upon credit
effec tiveness.
Sites and Services
5.02       Retroactive financing of an estimated US$750,000 would include:
(a) the earthworks and civil works necessary to start the Linthau II
scheme; and (b) technical assistance to begin the EPPLS.  In order that the
first group of families could be relocated from the CD]3 area to Linthau II
during the third quarter of 1983, the earthworks were begun in November
1982.   To begin the organization and  strengthening  of EPPLS,  teclnical
assistance  services  were  provided  to EPPLS  in September  1982.    These
services  were  provided  by  the  same  firm  that  prepared  the  ONL  re-
organization proposals, and were designed to assist in the detailing of job
descriptions, in the relocation of staff to new positions in EPPLS and in
the redeployment  of excess  personnel.    This  consultant  team will  also
assist in ensuring that the implementation of the Linthau II earthworks and
civil works program is managed according to EPPLS procedures.
5.03      Parallel to beginning the execution of Linthau II, in early 1983
five expatriate experts would arrive to complete the organization and
strengthening of EPPLS and to prepare for initiating work as soon as
possible after credit effectiveness.   The reorganization of the ONL into
the EPPLS would have been completed by the time the other two schemes for
Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, are readly to start.  As discussed above (para.
2.17), the experts would stay on to train their counterparts.
CDB Market
5.04        The civil works for upgrading the market would be expected to
begin in mid-1983, and to go on for a year and a half.  The Ministry of
Public Works would be responsible for the execution of all civil works and
for procurement of equipment.   According  to the plan. developed by con-
sultants, the works on the wholesale market, two retail markets and an open
air market would not proceed simultaneously but rather in phases.  This ap-
proach would allow for upgrading with the least possible amount of disrup-
tion of the market activities.   The first phase would involve relocating
the 1,053 CDB families and the subsequent construction of the wholesale
market  at  the  northern  end  and  of  the open-air market  (see IBRD Map
16757).  The second phase would involve the construction of the remaining
two  retail  markets.    Parallel  to  these works,  a number of activities



-19-
leading to the creation of SAGMAP would be undertaken.   SAGMAP would be
fully operational by the time the wholesale market is opened, in the last
quarter of 1984.
5.05        During project preparation, a number of preliminary steps were
taken, ranging from land acquisition to the institutional design of SAGMAP
and the drafting of the legal framework for its establishment.  The esta-
blishment of SAGMAP and the execution of the SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement
acceptable to IDA would constitute a condition of effectiveness (para. 8.02
(b)).  SCUD would carry out all activities related to the development of
SAGMAP into an operational entity, beginning with the recruitment of its
Director General, and (a) the recruitment of the Director of Operations,
the heads of Personnel and Accounting and the Division Chiefs, the recruit-
ment of support personnel, and the operational staff; (b) together with the
SAGMAP management team, the studying and planning of the temporary arrange-
ments for market activities during construction and  the programming  and
overseeing of the proposed training of the staff upon recruitment, accord-
ing to the nature of their jobs; and (c) the preparation of SAGMAP's first
operational budget for presentation to the Board of Directors upon its for-
mal establishment.   SAGMAP key positions (as of those of EPPLS) would at
all times be occupied through the life of the project by competent indivi-
duals acceptable to IDA (8.01 (p)).  A project implementation unit (PIU)
has been established in the Ministry of Public Works to carry out all act-
ivities related to the construction of the market, including the tendering
and letting of contracts for civil works and equipment and the supervision
of the works.
5.06      The timing for the hiring of the managers, the support personnel
and the operational staff would be determined by the training period they
would undergo prior to the establishment of SAGMAP as an operating entity.
This is targeted for mid-1984, three months before the opening of the
wholesale and open-air markets.  The technical assistance provided9/ would
comprise both staff training and preparation of the operating rules and
budget for SAGMAP (about US$95,000 have been allotted  for this).   Staff
salaries and other expenses for this transitional period would be covered
by a pre-operation fund (US$81,000, included in Government counterpart
funds).
Inter-Institutional Agreements
5.07      To simplify project implementation, the EPPLS and the Ministry of
Public Works would receive all necessary financing to build all works for
their components (sites and services and market upgrading, respectively)
and to procure all related equipment and technical assistance. Designs and
specifications would be previously approved by all agencies concerned. The
EPPLS and the Ministry of Public Works would subsequently transfer all off-
site networks, facilities and equipment to the corresponding sector agen-
cies.    For the sites and services,  this refers to community facilities,
the off-site water, drainage and circulation networks, and all electrical
and public-lighting networks; for the market, it would refer to all off-
site water,  drainage,  circulation and  electrical  networks.   The sector
agencies would assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
91   Detailed in the consultants' report (Item 2 in Annex 1:  List of docu-
ments in Project File).



-20-
these facilities and, where applicable, for collection from beneficiaries
and repayment to the Government.  For the sites and  services component,
agreements would govern such municipal services as garbage collection and
security, the cost of which would be recovered through city taxes.  The
costs of water and electrical networks, their operation and maintenance
would be recovered from beneficiaries by the respective utilities who would
in turn pay back the Government on the same terms as those on whiclh the
money was received by EPPLS.   The agreements governing  these procedures
would be finalized in a form satisfactory to IDA (para. 8.01 (i)) and would
cover mutual obligations,  scheduling of commitments,  and other terms and
conditions conducive to the required coordinated effort, including suitable
financial arrangements, cost recovery, and operation and maintenance condi-
tions. SAGMAP would enter into contractual agreements satisfactory to the
Association, with relevant sectoral. agencies concerning support services
such as water, power, garbage collection, etc. (SAR 8.01 (o)).
Procurement 10/
5.08      Construction (US$14.6 million).  Due to the relatively small size
of contract packages and the dispersed location of the sites and services
schemes, it is not expected that foreign bidders would be attracted to ci-
vil works contracts on this component (US$3.8 million) but neither would
they be excluded from submitting proposals.1l/ All equipment materials,
and civil work contracts, including the CDB market component (US$10.8 mil-
lion),. would be procured  through ]:cB.12/ Domestic contractors would  re-
ceive a margin of preference of 7 1/2a-and domestic rvinufacturers would
receive a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable customs duties
(whichever is lower).
5.09        Technical Assistance (US$'0.9 million).  About 92 man-months of
technical assistance to EPPLS and SAGMAP would be contracted, in all pro-
bability prior to credit signature.  They would be contracted according to
the Bank Guidelines for the employment of consultants.  The professLonal
man-month cost averages'US$9,730. This is consistent with current practice
in Haiti, and is considered reasonable in view of the highly specialized
nature of the services required. In addition, micro-computing, engineering
and office equipment would be procured by EPPLS on the basis of statements
of expenditure as these items would not exceed US$250,000 (see para. 5.10).
5.10       IDA Review of Tender Docutments, Contracts and Training Programs.
Draft tender and contract documents for the sites and services and CDB mar-
ket components have been reviewed and approved by IDA. Approval by IDA of
tender documents for all contracts above US$250,000 would be required,as
would be bid evaluations of the respective contracts before awarding them
(para.  8.01  (n)).   All other contracts would be reviewed ex-post on. the
10/  The costs given here are base costs,  i.e.,  excluding physical  and
price contingencies, as well as implementation costs incurred by the
PIU and the EPPLS.
11/ Annex 7, Table 9 shows a tentative breakdown of civil works contracts
for the sites and services components.
12/ Of this, civil works, materials and equipment for the CDB market would
be procured under the IDA Special Fund.



-21-
basis of statement of expenditure procedures.  For the training programs,
EPPLS and SCUD/SAGMAP would prepare and submit for approval detailed pro-
posals,  including detailed  cost  estimates.   Regarding  the provision of
counterpart funds, the Government would exchange views with IDA on the
adequacy of proposed budget allocation in order to ensure accelerated pro-
ject implementation (para. 8.01 (k)).
Disbursements
5.11      The Government would allocate the funds needed for project impl-
ementation in its yearly budgets, from which funds would be transferred to
the EPPLS for the sites and services component (including off-site infra-
structure and community facilities), and to the Ministry of Public Works
for the CDB market component, following a disbursement pattern correspond-
ing to the anticipated  investment schedule.   The credit proceeds would
finance the following items of both components:
(a)   One hundred percent of foreign expenditures and 77% of local ex-
penditures for building materials, equipment and civil works
(US$15.6 million equivalent);
(b)   One hundred percent of foreign expenditures and 10% of local ex-
penditures for technical assistance and training (US$0.8 million
equivalent);
(c)   Project Preparation Facility (US$1 million equivalent);
(d)   Initial deposit in Special Accounts (US$1.5 million equivalent);
and
(e)   Unallocated (US$2.1 million equivalent).
5.12         In order to reduce the interval during which the Government
would finance IDA's share of the project costs with its own resources, two
Special Accounts would be opened in the Central Bank or other appropriate
Bank with initial deposits totalling US$1.5 million (para. 8.01 (b)).
This would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para.
8.02 (c)). Government would make payments out of the Special Accounts and
would request replenishment of the Special Accounts by IDA, on the basis of
fully documented withdrawal applications.  For disbursements in excess of
US$1.5 million, regular disbursement procedures (i.e. not using the Special
Accounts) would apply.   In addition, the above agencies would provide the
Association with regular progress reports for the duration of project exe-
cution (para. 8.01 (e)).
5.13       The estimated schedule of disbursement, allowing for a six-month
lag for preparing and processing withdrawal applications, is shown in the
following table. The period of disbursements is five years, with the pro-
posed completion date June 30, 1987.  The five-year disbursement schedule
compares favorably with the actual average profile for urban projects in
the LAC region (7 years) and for projects in other sectors in Haiti (5
years). The proposed disbursement schedule is deemed feasible for the fol-
lowing reasons:
(a)   the project is already underway (Linthau II sites and services
and technical assistance for EPPLS);



-22-
(b)   the project has a much greater level of readiness than has been
the case for most other urban projects:  100% detailed engineer-
ing has been completed, all land has been acquired, and most of
the necessary legislation is already in place; and
(c)   the proposed Special Accounts should expedite administrative pro-
cessing which has caused delays in the past.
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
Calendar Year       Government                   IDAa/
___________________         IDA's   Fiscal
Semesters      Semester Cumulative    Semester Cumulative    Semester Year
June 1983         0.80      0.80          2.5b/       2.5       Second FY 83
December 1983    0.15       0.95          0.8         3.3       First FY 84
June 1984         0.40      1.35          3.6         6.9       Second FY 84
December 1984    0.71       2.06          6.4        13.3       First FY 85
June 1985         0.30      2.36          6.3        19.6        Second FY 85
December 1985    0.20       2.56          0.5        20.1       First FY 86
June 1986         0.12      2.68          0.5        20.6        Second FY 86
December 1986    0.06       2.74          0.2        20.8       First FY 87
June 1987         0.03      2.77          0.1        20.9        Second FY 87
December 1987    0.03       2.80          0.1        21.0       First FY 88
a/ Including the IDA Special Fund.
b/ This pertains to advances under the Project Preparation Facility and to
deposits into the Special Accounts.
Accounts and Auditing
5.14      SAGMAP and EPPLS would maintain appropriate accounting systems to
reflect their operations and financial condition. In addition, entities
entrusted with the implementation of specific project components (EPPLS,
MPW/PIU) would maintain separate project accounts (para. 8.01 (e)).
SAGMAP, EPPLS and the project accounts would be auditesl annually by extern-
al auditors whose qualifications are acceptable to IDA, and their reports
and relevant statements would be forwarded to IDA not 'Later than four
months after the end of the Haitian fiscal year (para. 8.01 (f)). The
Government would provide the Association with the results of the audit of
the Special Accounts in the Central Bank or other appropriate Bank no later
than four months after the end of their fiscal year (para. 8.01 (g)).



-23-
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, COST RECOVERY AND AFFORDABILITY
6.01       The soundness of the finances of the principal project entities,
SAGMAP and EPPLS, will be determined by their ability to maintain reason-
able operating efficiency as well as by the terms on which Government chan-
nels the proceeds of the credit and its own contribution to them.  Because
SAGMAP is a totally new entity and EPPLS' operations are being substantial-
ly reorganized, the financial projections are subject to considerable un-
certainty and will have to be monitored and adjusted during project execu-
tion.
SAGMAP
6.02        The projected operating expenses of the CDB market (personnel,
water and electricity tariffs and maintenance) were estimated by the con-
siltants who prepared the feasibility study.  As noted in para. 6.07, it
should be feasible to increase fees paid by various users of the market
once the improved facilities are in place, to cover these costs and gener-
ate a surplus for reimbursement in the gradual rehabilitation of secondary
markets in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area. SAGMAP would undertake in
the subsidiary agreement under which it will receive funds from the Govern-
ment, to maintain a working ratio (operating expenses divided by revenues)
ot not more than 0.9 (para. 8.01 (d)).
6.03         Government would make available as an equity contribution to
SAGMAP the proceeds of the credit and its own allocation to the project,
covering the full cost of the market, SAGMAP working capital and institu-
tional development costs.   Fees  cannot be raised beyond  the projected
levels without affecting affordability (paras. 6.09 and 7.12).   It would
therefore be unrealistic to require SAGMAP to repay the project financing.
In addition, the needs for investment in market expansion and upgrading are
well in excess of the surplus expected to be generated by SAGMAP operations
(between US$800,000 and US$2 million in the period 1985-90, depending on
the buoyancy of revenues).  Although an outline for future investments by
SAGMAP has been developed (para. 3.03) it is at a very preliminary stage
and sources of financing have not been identified.   To assist SAGMAP in
pLanning its expansion in an orderly manner, IDA would be given an opportu-
nity to comment on proposed investments in excess of US$2 million (para.
8.01 (h)).
EPPLS
6.04        During the execution of the pilot sites and services projects
supported by the credit, EPPLS would evolve from a very small Government
department depending largely on Government allocations to a semi-autonomous
agency charged with the execution of a greatly expanded low-income housing
effort.   While budgetary support would  have to continue, an increasing
share of EPPLS expenses would be financed by the recovery from the benefi-
ciaries of its investments and operating costs.  As noted in para. 6.08,
cost recovery would increase sharply as a result of the project.  If EPPLS
succeeds in maintaining affordability while collecting, as agreed, most
project costs (including interest close to the expected rate of inflation)
from beneficiaries, further gains may be possible under the proposed



-24-
KfW-supported programs.   To encourage EPPLS in this effort, project funds
would be passed on in the form of a loan with the same 25-year term antici-
pated for EPPLS' own lending (para. 4.04).   Under these conditions, based
on operating costs projected by EPPLS' consultants, the entity's growth is
expected to be sustainable without increase in Government support for its
operating budget.
6.05       EPPLS' growth can be g;auged by comparing  :he size of its first
program, the St. Martin-Drouillard schemes supported by UNDP/UNCDF (US$2.7
million), with the US$6.3 million program included in the proposed project
and the tentative cost for the programs proposed for KfW financing (US$823
million). IDA would be given an opportunity to comment on planned invest-
ments of more than US$1 million (para. 8.01 (h)). This would allow verifi-
cation that EPPLS' programs are soundly financed and consistent with the
basic objectives of the institution.
Cost Recovery
6.06       The poverty of the target groups inhibits thte recovery of project
costs at the opportunity cost of capital. However, the agreed recovery me-
chanisms would achieve a greater degree of financial autonomy and replica-
bility than have hitherto existed
6.07       SAGMAP.  SAGMAP would recover 100% of CDB operating expenses plus
a margin sufficient to cover more than 60% of depreciation on revalued as-
sets.   The necessary revenues would be generated directly by the benefi-
ciaries as follows:   (a) vendors would pay a fee whiLch would replace the
current tax payable to the municipality and which woiLd represent a 50% in-
crease over this tax (the fee would be adjusted to take into account the
special benefits to be enjoyed by vendors of perishable goods); the current
collection performance, which is good, would be improved by the rational-
ization of the space, to cover al:L vendors;  (b) parking fees paid by users
of the parking lots who would benefit from the improved access to the mar-
ket; (c) rental of storage areas to wholesalers who would suffer reduced
losses from decay and theft; they would be charged an equivalent of US$15
per m2 per year instead of the current US$8; and, (d) fees from truck-
drivers and "brouettiers", who do not currently pay fees but would profit
from the greater handling efficiency (SAGMAP would have the authority to
regulate the handling of goods outside the provided areas).  SAGM&P would
establish its fee schedule prior to starting  operations  in the new7 CDB
(para 8.01 (d)).   The municipality of Port-au-Prince would be responsible
for maintaining access roads and for garbage collection, which would be
financed under its normal budget.
6.08       EPPLS.  About 96.5% of total costs would be recovered as follows-
(a)    Direct recovery:   the costs of detailed  engineering, land prepara-
tion, civil works, supervision, on-site infrastructure and construction of
dwelling units would be recovered directly from beneficiaries through 25-
year contracts.   EPPLS would obtain from the purchasers of the dwelling
units a mortgage guarantee (para. 8.01 (c)).   These contracts wouLd have
differential interest rates of 6%' in the secondary cities (to cover site



-25-
development costs, management costs,13/ maintenance costs and an allowance
Eor default and to allow for the repayment of IDA funds to Government at an
interest rate of 4% over the same period) and of 8% in Port-au-Prince
(para. 8.01 (c)), (to cover the above and to generate surplus funds for the
EPPLS for re-investment). These differential rates reflect the differences
in payment capacity of target groups in secondary cities and Port-au-
Prince. Recovery would be significantly higher than that currently being
achieved by the EPPLS14/ although the interest rates would be marginally
below projected annual inflation rates (9% in 1984 and 8% in later years).
The rates would, however, be reviewed yearly beginning one year after user
occupancy to determine their impact on the financial viability of the EPPLS
and to correct unintended subsidies as a result of higher than projected
inflation (para. 8.01 (c)); (b) Indirect recovery: the cost of water and
electricity infrastructure networks and operation would be recovered
through tariffs calculated on a full recovery basis. The EPPLS would col-
lect the tariffs and pass them on to the relevant agencies (SNEP, and EDH)
during an initial period of not more than five years to simplify collection
procedures and to allow neighborhood communities to organize cost sharing
for collective sanitary facilities.   The cost of the circulation network
and of storm drainage costs would be recovered in municipal budgets through
the tax on buildings.  The cost of street maintenance and garbage collec-
tion would be incorporated to municipal budgets and recovered through
general taxation; and, (c) The land would remain the property of the EPPLS
and would be rented on a renewable 25-year lease at annual rates of 6% and
8% for secondary cities and Port-au-Prince, respectively (para. 8.01 (c)).
The cost of social infrastructure (health center, school and community
center amounting to US$173,500) and of part of the studies (US$25,000)
would not be recovered (see Annex 7, Table 2).
Affordability
6.09      CDB Market Component.  User fees have been calculated to be com-
patible with the financial capacity of each group of beneficiaries and to
minimize the impact on the commercial behavior of groups using the market.
The net effects of the improved conditions, after allowing for higher fees,
would result in an increase in revenues for 90% of those vendors who sell
goods worth more than Gdes. 75 (US$15) daily.   Over 5% of the remaining
vendors, whose daily sales are between Gdes. 50 and 75 would suffer a small
loss in the short term. The modest increase anticipated in turnover (0.1%)
and the greater efficiency of the market would allow a large proportion of
these vendors to adapt their trade to the new conditions and recuperate
their former revenues  (see Annex 6, Table 1).   It is unlikely that the
higher fees would result in significant changes in consumer prices. In the
event that vendors were to pass on the increase in fees to consumers in the
form of higher prices, it is estimated, at worst, that this would result in
a short-term increase in consumer prices for agricultural products of no
13/ Management costs correspond to 1% of initial investment; maintenance
costs are 3% of annuities; the default or warranty funds is 2% of an-
nuities.
14/ In the St. Martin-Drouillard UNDP/UNCDF-supported project, the EPPLS
is recovering 45% of the costs at an interest rate of 7.3% over 15
years.



-26-
more than 1.0% per annum, which is considered acceptable.  The parking fee
(US$0.3 or Gdes. 1.5) would only affect higher income groups; it has been
set to a level to encourage proper parking.  The 88% increase in the ware-
house fee per square meter would be counterbalanced by a rationalization of
the use of space and is justified by the revenues of the beneficiaries and
the fee paid by truck-drivers would only affect marginally the benefits of
the wholesale vendors.   The fee levied on the "brouettiers" would not
significantly affect their revenues.  Because of the complexity of market
operations, however, these estimates should be treated with caution until
capacity to pay has been tested in practice (para. 7.12).
6.10      The Sites and Services Component.  The affordability of the three
schemes has been calculated on the assumption that bet:ween 22% and 25% of
beneficiary family revenues would be allocated to the cost of housing and
related services costs, including those of water and electricity.  Incomes
were estimated on the basis of a household survey performed in 1980 and up-
dated to March 1982 (Annex 7, Table 5). A cross-subsidy was used to lower
the price of land and infrastructure for the smallest lots (by 25% in Les
Cayes, and by 20% in Cap HaitierL), and to therefore allow lower-income
groups to benefit from the project.   The subsidy would be recovered from
the larger lots, especially the commercial lots, 206 of which are located
in Cap-Haitien and 20 in.Les Cayes.
6.11      In Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, the overall monthly charge includ-
ing the rent of the site, the purchase of the house, all services, finan-
cial and management costs, and provision for risks range between Gdes. 6.10
and 26.5 a month, with 94% of the lots costing less than Gdes. 17.2 a
month.  Despite the cross subsidy and the reduction of standards and costs
to minimum levels, households able to afford one room range from those in
the 26th percentile (on a 32 m2 lot) to those in the 31st percentile (on a
40 m2 lot) in Cap-Haitien and from the 37th to the 42nd percentile in Les
Cayes. However, since 74% of the inhabitants live under the absolute po-
verty level, all but about 10% of the lots would be affordable to the ab-
solute poor.  EPPLS would apply design standards low enough to reach this
target population (para. 8.01 (c)).
Eligibility
6.12       To avoid encroachment by higher income groups than those intend-
ed, several measures are proposed. In the case of the Linthau II scheme in
Port-au-Prince, the EPPLS would use an update of the survey of the CDB area
residents conducted for the market feasibility study, as a basis to ensure
that the beneficiaries were those families being relocated. For all three
schemes, EPPLS would conduct careful screening of applicants to determine
eligibility on the basis of household income and the need for shelter.
After occupancy, anyone wishing to sell a unit would be obliged to offer
it to EPPLS first.   Finally,  since EPPLS would retain, ownership of land,
'higher income encroachment would be discouraged.



-27-
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
General Benefits
7.01       The benefits of this project are of two types: specific benefits
to individual beneficiaries and indirect benefits or externalities.    (a)
Concerning the CDB market, specific benefits include those pertaining to
the upgrading of the market--i.e. to the truckers, merchants and vendors
who would function in an improved environment.  The indirect benefits re-
garding the CDB upgrading would include: (i) improved sanitary conditions
that would benefit the health of the hundreds of thousands of users of the
central market; (ii) the same effect on the secondary markets of the metro-
politan area as they were progressively incorporated to SAGMAP; and, (iii)
reduced congestion and improvement in the functional operation of the en-
tire northwest quadrant of the city around the CDB market.  (b) Concerning
the shelter components, the indirect benefits would include: (i) the effect
of  improved basic  living conditions  on  productivityl5/  and on health;
(with regard to the latter, an average saving of two days per month by pro-
ject beneficiaries in the labor force, assuming they earn minimum wages,
would produce enough incremental outputl6/ to equal the initial invest-
ment); and, (ii) the increase of the above externalities deriving from the
improved efficiency and strengthening of the national housing agency, which
through adopting realistic standards and policies would make it possible to
provide growing numbers of the low- and very low-income population with
better housing.
Economic Costs and Benefits
7.02        The CDB Market.   The economic analysis is based on costs and
benefits estimated for a period of 15 years and not for the full 50 year
life of the project, because of the uncertainties associated with such a
lengthy period.   The analysis focusses on quantifiable benefits directly
linked to improvements in the physical conditions of the market, and there-
fore to the commercialization process.  It assumes an average 2% reduction
in deteriorated goods sold at a discount (currently 4% of all goods), dead
losses (currently 2% of all perishable goods), and storage losses (current-
ly 5%).  It also assumes a decrease of 30% in truck unloading delays and a
reduction of congestion in the Croix-des-Bossales area on the basis of es-
timated vehicle operation costs.
7.03        The project costs taken into account are:   (a) All investment
costs, excluding taxes; the opportunity cost of unqualified manpower esti-
mated at half a minimum salary; the cost of all qualified personnel; the
cost of land situated between the highly priced commercial center and the
expanding harbor (calculated at twice its current real estate value of
US$14 m2); and, (b) Operating expenses for which financial costs were used
except for the unqualified manpower which was shadowpriced at half of the
minimum salary. The economic rate of return is 13%.
15/ See Burns & Grebler, Housing the Nations, 1977, although it applies
more to company towns.
16/ Discounted at the opportunity cost of capital.



-28-
7.04        Sites and Services Component.  An economic evaluationr was made
for each of the sites and services schemes, representing 8105% of the total
cost of the shelter component.   Costs and benefits were estimated in corn
stant 1982 prices, taxes and transfer payments excluded.  The benefits in
cluded in the analysis are:  (a) imputed rental value which  -in the eb-ne
of a market for low income housing was represented by the annuity p&_f,
beneficiaries;17/  and,  (b) the valorization of the serviced urban land;
conservative estimates were made by the appraisal mission derived from the
observation  of  existing  developments  in Port-au-Prince  with  access  to
similar service levels.   Valorization was  estimated  at US$25 per m2 of-
dwelling area; this value was imputed annually at 7% of the acquired land
value.  The benefits included in the analysis do not measure consumer SUr-
plus, or the value of service to the consumer beyond its commercial value
(in particular health benefits arid the possible benefits associated  witth
subleasing).
7.05        The project costs included were:   (a) Estimated market value ,o
land used for the sites and services component;  (b) Earthworks  ard con-
struction;  costs of manpower shaelowpriced to reflect unemployment in the
various categories of workers in the cities concerned: the resultinrg econ-
omic manpower cost, estimated at half of its financial cost; (c) Planning,
detailed  engineering,  supervision  and  administrative  expenses  of EPPLS;
and, (d) All on-site and off-site infrastructure including water, sewerage,
drainage, electricity and roads.  The cost of communit:y facilities was ex-
cluded because of the difficulty of quantifying their benefits.  The eco-
nomic rates of return are 24% for Linthau II in Port-au-Prince, 18% :or Lns
Cayes, and 11% for Cap Haitien.  Annex 7, Table 7 shows the cost andc bene-
fit streams.
Poverty Impact
7.06       CDB Market Upgrading.  About 86% of the benefits related to im-
proved sanitary conditions and commercialization operations would accrue to
the poor, as well. as some 37% of the benefits linked to traffic improvement
and decongestion.   As in the case of the costs and benefits mentioned
above, it can be assumed  that about 85% of the nonquantifiable benie^its
(described in para. 7.01) would go to the urban poor.
7.07       Sites and Services.  Given the difficulty of establishing an up-
dated level of absolute poverty in Cap-Haitien and in Les Cayes, the rela-
tive poverty threshold was used for the poverty impact analysis.    This
provides a very conservative estimate of the poverty impact: as is noted in
para. 1.03, it was estimated in 1976 that in secondary cities, 60% of the
Haitian population lived under the relative poverty threshold and 74%' lived
in absolute poverty.  The table below shows the percentage of benefits and
costs goinig to the poor:
17/  This addresses the value of shelter alone on totally unserviced land-
which is not uncommon.   The valorization is applicable to serviced
land. This distinction was necessary given the unavailability cf ade-
quate comparators in Haiti.



-29-
Poverty Impact
Percent Impact on Poor
Scheme                                               Benefits          Costs
Linthau II                                               80               60
Cap-Haitien                                              75               62
Les Cayes                                                59               42
7.08      The sites would provide housing to a poor population of more than
9,500.  Given the virtual lack of adequate housing and services available
to this category of population in urban areas, demand for housing is prac-
tically equal to the number of poor families.   These are estimated to be
over 8,000 in Cap-Haitien, 3,600 in Les Cayes, and 115,000 in the Port-au-
Prince metropolitan area where Linthau II is located.   Population growth
will create a demand for respectively 1,800 and 1,000 dwellings in Cap-
Haitien and Les Cayes, between 1980 and 1985 of which 1,080 and 600 will
concern poor families (see Annex 7, Table 6).  In Cap-Haitien, 48% of the
demand for dwelling construction for the poor between 1980 and 1985 (and a
third of the overall demand) would be satisfied by the project.   In Les
Cayes, the proportions would fall respectively to 30% and 20%.
Environmental Impact
7.09      The consultants preparing both the market and sites and services
components included analyses of the ecological impact of the project in
their studies.   The proposed project incorporates protective measures for
*the vegetation and water resources and includes comprehensive proposals to
mitigate the environmental impact of both the market and sites and services
components as well as in the former case, the control of pests and dis-
eases, all within the financial constraints of the project.
Project Risks
7.10       Any new program involving a decisive change in public policy,
such as in the case of the shelter component, necessarily carries certain
risks. These would include continuity of Government support, fiscal abili-
ty of the Government to meet counterpart financing requirements, and the
capacity of the executing agency. The project design has taken these risks
into account as much as possible,  and they are deemed acceptable.   The
Government has shown a serious commitment to the proposed project over
three years of project preparation.   Safeguards to detect and respond to
problems with the executing capacity of the EPPLS have been built into the
project--including considerable technical assistance for strengthening the
institution.
7.11        The establishment of SAGMAP implies a new approach to public
administration in the metropolitan area.   This also involves a certain
number of risks. However, the design of the institution takes into account
the-local constraints of human and institutional resources on the one hand,



-30-
and on the other, permits the recruitment of qualified managers and pro-
vides them with adequate decision miaking power. Also, there are recent en-
couraging experiences in IDA involvement with the public sector, such as is
the case of power projects.   Problems related  to the construction of the
market would be minimized by the Project Implementaticon Unit in MPW, with
clearly identified responsibilities and access to higher levels of Govern-
ment and to technical assistance. Future project benefits could be reduced
if the second phase of the CDB were not undertaken within a few years after
completing the project supported  first phase.   The profits generated by
SAGMAP are estimated to allow for the upgrading and incorporation of the
other secondary municipal markets.   However, the construction of the new
wholesale market, as well as the relocation of the transport terminal, will
require additional Government borrowing..
7.12      For both components, there is a risk that lower-income beneficia-
ries may not be able to afford the levels of payments required to achieve
the intended level of cost recovery.  This has proven to be a problem in
the IDA-assisted provincial city water supply project.   While the Govern-
ment has demonstrated its willingness to increase its budgetary support
under that project to achieve the objectives of improving health conditions
in secondary cities and can be expected to do likewise if similar problems
are encountered by SAGMAP or EPPLS, it must be recognized that severe fisc-
al constraints would limit its ability to proceed with other urgent invest-
ments.  The importance of improving fiscal revenues and the critical defi-
ciencies addressed by the project fully justify acceptance of this risk.
VIII. R_ECOMMENDATIONS
8.01       At negotiations, assurances were received by Government on the
following matters:18/
(a)   The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and would
extend funds for the on-site infrastructure and shelter compo-
nents of the sites and services component to the EPPLS at an in-
terest rate of 4% p.a. for 25 years (SAR 4.04; CA 3.02 (b) (i)).
For the off-site infrastructure, community facilities and office
facilities components of the sites and serviLces component, the
Government would make funds available to EPPLS as a grant (SAR
4.03 (b); CA 3.02 (b) (ii)).  For the upgrading of the market,
the Government would make funds directly available to SAGMAP
through the Ministry of Public Works as an equity investment (SAR
4.03  (a);  CA  3.02  (d)).   For  institutional  development,  the
Government would make the funds available to SAGMAP and EPPLS as
grants (SAR 4.03 (c); CA 3.02 (b) (ii)).
(b)   The Government would  establish two Special Accounts into which
would be deposited amounts of US$0.5 million (SAR 5.12; CA 2.02
(c)-(g)); and US$1.0 million (SAR 5.12; SFA 2.02 (c)-(g)); and
from which funds would be disbursed on the basis of fully docu-
mented withdrawal applications.
18/ References in parentheses are ito relevant paragraphs of the Staff Ap-
praisal Report  (SAR),  the Credit Agreement  (CA),  the Special  Fund
Agreement (SFA), and the Project Agreement (PA).



-31-
(c)   EPPLS would  apply construction standards commensurate with the
ability to pay of prospective purchasers, such standards to be
satisfactory to IDA  (SAR 6.11; PA 2.08  (a) (i)).   EPPLS would
lease the lots and sell the dwelling units at levels permitting
the recovery of all on-site costs (SAR 6.08; PA 2.08 (a) (ii)).
EPPLS would finance the lease of the lots and the sale of the
dwelling units under contracts establishing for a repayment pe-
riod of 25 years and an interest rate on the outstanding balance
of 8% per annum for lots located in Port-au-Prince and 6% per an-
num for lots located in secondary cities (SAR 6.08; PA 2.08 (a)
(iii)) and EPPLS would obtain from the purchasers of the dwelling
units a mortgage guarantee (SAR 6.08; PA 2.08 (a) (iv)).  These
interest rates would be reviewed on a yearly basis in order to
determine their impact on the financial viability of the agency
(SAR 6.08 (a); PA 2.08 (b)).
(d)   SAGMAP would balance its revenues by modifying its fee structure
to fully cover operations, maintenance costs, depreciation and
generate a level of profits necessary to gradually upgrade and
incorporate the rest of the municipal markets in the metropolitan
area (SAR 2.04). To this effect it would maintain a working ra-
tio (expenses/revenue) not greater than 0.9 (SAR 6.02; CA Sched-
ule 5 (m)).  SAGMAP would establish its fee schedule prior to
starting CDB operations (SAR 6.07, CA Schedule 5 (m)).
(e)   SAGMAP and EPPLS would maintain appropriate accounting  systems
(SAR 5.14; CA Schedule 5 (g) and PA 4.01).  During implementa-
tion, separate project accounts would be kept by EPPLS for sites
and services and technical assistance to the Ministry of Public
Works (PIU),for the market construction, and SAGMAP for institu-
tional assistance (SAR 5.14; CA 4.01 (b); Schedule 5 (s); and PA
4.02  (a)).   In addition,  the above agencies would provide IDA
with regular progress reports for the duration of project execu-
tion (SAR 5.12; CA 3.04 (b); SFA 3.05 (b)).
(f)   The EPPLS, MPW/PIU and SAGMAP would arrange for annual indepen-
dent audits of the accounts mentioned above; these agencies would
submit such audits to the Association not more than four months
after the close of the fiscal year.   (SAR 5.14; CA 4.01  (b)
(iii); Schedule 5 (s); and PA 4.02 (c)).
(g)   Not later than four months after the end of their fiscal year,
the Government would provide to the Association the results of an
audit of the Special Accounts carried out by independent auditors
suitable to the Association (SAR 5.14; GA 4.01 (b) (iii); SFA
4.01 (g) (iii)).
(h)   The EPPLS and SAGMAP would consult with IDA prior to undertaking
any investment expansion plans beyond, respectively, US$1 million
and US$2 million (SAR 6.03 and 6.05; CA Schedule 5 (n); PA 3.04).
(i)   The Government would reserve 16 ha. of land at the Chancerelles
military airport for the future wholesale market, by transferring
the property to SAGMAP no later than December 31, 1983 (SAR 3.03;
CA 3.05 (b)).



-32-
(j)   The Government shall utilize the existing facilities of the &are
Macdonald as a passenger transport terminal (SAR 3.07; GA 3.05
(c) -
(k)   The borrower shall exchange views with the Association Th March
of each year on the proposed budget allocations for the project
and prior to August 15 of each year on the adequacy thereof (SAR
5.10; CA 3.01 (b)).
(1)   SAGMAP/SCUD, PIU and EPE'LS would contract the technical asistance
services within 18 and 3 months after cred:Lt signature, respec-
tively (SAR 2.09, 2.17; CA Schedule 5 (b); PA 2.02).
(m)   EPPLS and the relevant sectoral agencies anl utilities would en-
ter into agreements sat:isfactory to IDA, c.oncerning the proce-
dures for operating, maintaining, and recovering costs of all
facilities, infrastructure networks, and equipment transferred to
them by the EPPLS (SAR 5.07; PA 2.09).
(n)   Prior review by IDA would be required for bidding documents for
all contracts, as would be bid evaluations before the awarding of
the respective contracts. IDA would review and approve t:he bid
evaluations for all contracts above US$250,000 (SAR 5.10; CA
Schedule 3  (D)  (1);  PA  2.03).   All  others  would  be  reviewed
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure procedures.
(o)   SAGMAP and the relevant sectoral agencies would enter into sepa-
rate agreements satisfactory to IDA concerning support services
for the market (SAR 5.07; CA Schedule 5 (u)).
(p)   SAGMAP and EPPLS would ensure that at all tiLmes through the life
of the project key managerial positions would be occupied by com-
petent individuals acceptable to IDA  (SAR 5.05: CA Schedule   5
(o), (t); PA 3.01).
8.02        In addition, the following would be special conditions f-or ef-
fectiveness:
(a)   The establishment of SAG:MAP, (SAR 2.04; CA 6.01 (b));
(b)   Execution of the subsid:iary agreements between EPPLS and SAGMAP
and the Government (SAR 4.04; CA 6.01 (a), (b)); and
(c)     Opening  of  the  two Special Accounts  in an  appropriate  bank
(SAR 5.12; CA 2.02 (c)-(g) and 6.01 (c); SFA 2.02 (c)-(g) and
6.01 (b).
8.03        Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the projiect is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$21.0 million to the Government of Haiti.



-33-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
L. Decree transforming the ONL into the EPPLS (Public Enterprise for the
Promotion of Public Housing), Port-au-Prince, November 1982.
2. Institutional Diagnostic of the ONL, IDET-CEGOS, S.A., Suresnes, May
1980.
3. Institutional support study, SEMA, Montrouge, 1982.
4. Feasibility study for the upgrading of the Croix-des-Bossales market,
Lavalin, Port-au-Prince/Montreal, 1981.
5. Feasibility study for a sites and services program in Cap-Haitian and
les Cayes, TECINA/Groupe Huit, Port-au-Prince, 1981.
6.  Master  Plan  for  the  northwest  zone  of  Port-au-Prince,  KfW/CHF,
Port-au-Prince, July 1982.
7. Urban Employment and Economy, IDA Appraisal mission, Washington, D.C.,
September 1982.
8. EPPLS Project File, prepared by EPPLS, Port-au-Prince, January 16, 17,
18, 1983
9. EPPLS and SAGMAP financial projections, IDA Appraisal Mission, February
1983.



-34-
ANNEX 2
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Tables
TABLE 1:        Summary of Investment Schedule
Sites and Services Components
TABLE 2:        SAGMAP Summary Cost Table



HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1:
SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT SCHEDULE-SITES & SERVICES COMPONENTS: HAITI URBAN I
PREVIOUS              1982                            1983                                       1984                                      1985                                       1986                        TOTAL
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -COSTS  CHECK-
7         4          1         2          3         4          1          2         3          4         1          2          3         4          1          2         3          4
COMPONENT
A4 LAND ACGUISITION
STATE PROPERTY        30.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0           .00  0.00  0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00          38.00
PRIVATE               46,42      0.00       00         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.80       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00          46.42
EXTENSION             16.05       0.00      0.06       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0..0 0.00            0.00       0.00      0.OV       0.00                 0.00       0.00       0.00      0,00 .O                16.05
SUBTOTAL A         100.47      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.0         100.47    100.47
0.0FF-SITE INFRASTA.
EARTHWORKS             0.00     16.48      41.21      24.73      0.08      5B.37    100.70      41.31      16.52      0.00       0.06      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00         299.32
STREET &DRAINAGE       0.00      0.00       3.30       4.13      0.82      70.64     68.29      33.11      16.55      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00         204.04
WATER SUPPLY           0.00      0.00      10.17     20.34      10,17       0.00      3.67      23.03      19.36      9.68       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00          96.42
PUBLIC LIGHTING        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      7,22       7.21     25.30      25.30      12.64      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0,00      0.00       0.00           77.67
SUBTOTAL B           0.00     16.48      54.68     49.20      10.99    137.01    179.88    104.66        77.73     34.98      12.64       0.00       0.00                0.00        0.00      0.00       0.000    080           678.25    678.25
C. ON SITE INFRSTR, 
EARTHWIRKS             0.00     88.85    222.13    133.28        0.00    130.04    267.21    117.59        47.04      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00         1006.14
STREET &DRAINAGE       0.00      0.00      17.70     22.22       4.44      21.11     16.21      10.31      5.16       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00          97.23
WATER SUPPLY           0.00      0.00       4.51      9.03       4.51       0.00      3.65      26.22     22.57      1129       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00          81.78
SANITARY BLOCKS        0.00      0.00       0.00     87.12    130.68        0.00      0.00       0.00      10.33     37.39      53.86     57.22      30.15     38.15       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00         460.90
SUBTOTAL C           0.00     88.85    244.42    251.65    139.63    151.15    287,.07    154.12        93.10      48.68      53.86     57.22      38.15      38.15      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00         1646.05   1646.05
0. SHELTER
CONTRACTOR BLT,        0.00      0.00       0.00    322.95    484.42        0.00      0.00       0.O0     68.44    134.43    190.67    198.01    132.01    132.00          0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00        1662.93
MATERIAL LOANS         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      26.29     34.30      10.77      79.07      18.81     15.68       9.41          194,33
SUBTOTAL 0           0.00      0.00       0.00    322.95    484.42        0.00      0.00       0.00     60.44    134.43    190.67    198.01    158.30    166.30         10.77      79.07      18.81     15.68       9.41         1857.26   1857.26
E. COMMUNITY FACIL.
HEALTH CENTERS         0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       6.93      12.12     10.40       5.20      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00           34.65
SOCIAL CENTERS        o0oo       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.25      9.62      17.88       9.63      9.62       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00           55.00
MRKETS                 0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00     35.42      35.42     30.36       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00          101.20
SUBTOTAL E           0.00      o.oo       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      15.10     21.74      63.70      50.25     39.90       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00          190.85    190.85
*V**tSUV 8TITAL A-E      100.47    105.33    299.10    623.80    630.04    288.16    466.75    273.96    261.01    281,79    307.42    295.21    196.45    204.45             10.77      79.07      18.81     15.68       9.41         4472.88   4472.88
F. IMPLEMENT. COSTS
PROJECT PREP.        011.52      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.08      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00          111.52
SUPERVISION            0.00      4.54      13.61     28.73      20.72     19.55      19.06      17.72     22.12      13.26      12.00     10.46       5.71      5.70       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00          201.98
PROMOT. 0 ALLOC.       0.00     11.65      23.30     23.30      34.95      66.53     68.96      41.10     40.24      42.27      46.12     44.28      29.46     30.67       1.61      11.86      2.82       2.35       3.76          525.23
SUBTOTAL F         111.52     16.19      36.91     52.03      63.67      06,01     88.82      00.82     62.36      55.53     08.12      54.74      30.17     36.37       1.61      11.86       2.82      2.35       3.76          838.73    838.73
RUAN*8SUBTOTAL A-F       211.99    121.52    336.01    675.03    698.71    374.24    555.77    332,70    323,37    337,32    365.54    349.95    231.62    240.82             12.38      90.93      21.63      10.83     13,17         5311.61   5311.61
H. PRICE CONTIN.           0.00       6.08     23.52      67.58     03.05      45.61     03.37      59.90      64.67     80.96      98,70    104.99      78.75      89.10      5.08      40.01      10.38      9,38       7.24          059.15
TOTAL              211.99    127,60    359.53    743,41  .02.50    419.85    639.14    392.68    388.04    418.28    464.24    454.94    310.37    329.92               17.46    130.94      32.01      27,41      20.41         6270.76   6270.76 ,"
NOTE: Costs excluding physical and price contingencies amount to US$4,914.12.
Costs  excluding  physical  and price  contingencies  and  including  studies  and  engineering amount  to US$5,144.12
(see Estimated Cost Table, Page 16, subtotal Sites and Services).



-36z-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
HAIT'I
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CDE-COUT                                                         SAGMAP
05AUG82                                                   SUMMARY COST TABLE
YEAR     ------------       '------  '- 8------   ----------------' 84---------------
QUARTER   -----------------       III       iV         I        II       III       IV                TOTAL
COMPONENT
H.EARTHWORKS                    360.00   360.00   424.00   424.00   200.00                          1768.00
CIVIL WORKS
B. INFRASTRUCTURE
WATER SUPPLY                             90.00    90.00   120.00   100.00   100.00                 500.00
RGOAlS                                                      170.003  255.00   256.00               681.03
STORM DRAINAGE                          100.00   iOO.OO               80.00   150.00              430, 00
SEWERAGE                                 25.30   100.00   125.00    50.00                          300.00
LIGHTING                                           50.00    50.00    50.00    80.00               230,00
SUE.-TOTAL B.                         215,00   '40.00   465.00   535,00   586.00               2i41,00
C.BUILDINGS
MARCHE DE GROG .WHOLESALE MARKET)    450.00   350.00   i50.CiO   225.00                           1375.00
MARCHE ST.JOSEPH                                  700.00   600.00   600.00   480.00              23 80.O0
MARCHE DES REMPARTS                               400.00   700.00   850,00   850.00               2800.00
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING                                      50 . 00    25.00    25.00              OO. (10
DORMITORY                                                   50.00    25.00    25.00                100.O0
iANITAR'Y BLOCKS                                   25.00    25.00    25.00    25.00                100i.00
hCCE  GILATES                                                                    4.00                4.00
SUB-TOTAL '.                          450G00  1475.00  1775.00  1750.00  1409,00                .859.00
D.MANAGEMENT.,SUPERVISION,ETC,.
MANAGEMENT I SUPERVISION    150.00   150,00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.0,0                   903.00
GROUNDWATER EVALUATION         50.00                                                                50.0-t
SUB-TOTAL  i,              200.00   150,00   1-30.0O   150.00   150.00   150.00                 950.00
E.INDEMNIZATION                 400.00   400.00                                                      8C00iOO
F.STUDIES & ENGINEERING         610.00                                                               6io.C0o
TOTAL PHYSICAL WORKS   1570.00  1575.00  2389.00  2814.00  2635,00  2145.00                 1i3128.00
8. iNSTITUTiONAL
INITIAL WORKING CAPITAiL                 10.00    60.00    60.O       60.00    60.00               250,00
VEHICLES 8 EQUIPMENT                                                            i5.00               35.00
FRE-OPERATING EXPENSE                                       20.00    20.00    41.00                 S1.0Q
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                        25.002 0   5.00    45.00                   _
SUB-TOTAL F.                           10.00    60.00   105.00'  105.00   161.00                 461i00
H.PRICE CONTINGENCY             wun1.v      O iOO.30   253.95   403.95   403.95   403.,95            665iSo
i.PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY          100.00   100.00   1-5.80   185.80   185.80   185.80 8C93.I
GRAND TOTAL              177000  1735.C00  2ia.75  3508.75  -3329.-j 291.75                 16142.,00'



-37-
ANNEX 3
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators
TABLE 1:      Sites and Services Component:  Civil Works Quantities
TABLE 2:      Sites and Services Component:  Implementation Schedule
TABLE 3:      Schedule of Bidding and Award of Selected Contracts



-38-
ANNEX 3
Table 1
IRBAN DEVELOP!fN PROJEC'
TABLE 1: Sites & Services Conmpnent: Civil Works Quantities
KEY NDIRItERS
C     LP-TA EN                YS                LINf AU II            TOTAL
A.  AND AOQT rIT CN
State Property                                                                            _                     7.6 ha.         7.6 ha.
Private                                                        10.7 ha.                  1.9 ha.                 -              12.6 ha.
Extension                                                       4.2 ha.                  1.10 ha.                -              12.6 ha.
B. DENASWICIURE (OC- AND OFF-SE)
Earth,rks - Lardfill ms                                        85,390 m3                 18,924 m3              68,400 m3       172,700 m3
Streets construction arx surfacirg                             27,895 m2                  4,984 m2              10,071 m2       42,950 m2
Drainage - open chanraLs main.                                    575 m                    _                      -                575 m
Drainage - open channels sezoniary                              1,582 m                    _                     1,750 m         3,332 m
Drainage - curbs ard mall chanrwls                              2,355 m                     381 m                  528 m         3,264 m
(Fed.) - mals corrrete slab bridges                            28                      _                         43              71
(Veh.) - large corcrete slab bridges                           18                      _                        -                18
Water supply
Main pipes 4 - 6"                                            2,166 m                     270 m                1,500 m          3,936 m
Main pipes 1/2-2"                                            3,336 m                     574                  1,552 m          5,462 m
Fire fighters outlets                                                                                             4 4              4
Sanitary blocks                                                  _                         _
Cap+aitin ard Les Cayes (6 cabins)                              51                        14                    _                 65
Linthau  (11 cabins)                                                                                             36               36
Public lightirg
Poles                                                            51                       14                    _                 65
Lamps                                                            77                       22                    -                 99
Shel ter
Total lots prep.                                              1,093                      278                  1,036            2,047
32 m2 - 45 2 e2orai - I-ousing               (A, B)          238       (A, B)         238      (A, B, C)   1,033            2,062
60 m2 - 130 m2 comer. - snall ind. -hous.   (C, D, E)        272      (C, D, E)        40     (D)             33              345
Contractor built units                                          887                      258                    824            1,969
Smaller units (11 to 13 m2)                  (A, B)          821       (A, B)         238      (A)           710            1,769
Larger units (approx. 15 m2)                 (C)              66       (C)             20      (B)           114              200
Material loans (US$)                                           142,530                   34,140                    -            176,670
Com=auity farilities
Health centers                                                       1                        1                                    -
Social centers                                                       1                        1                    -
Markets
Lots ard dweLlirg units - Bare lots (A.L.                                                                          179              179
(A                             448                       128                    710           1,286
with const. (B                             373                       110                    114             597
(C                              66                        20                                     86
bare lots  (D                              186                        10                     33             229
(E                              20                        10                     -               30



-39-
AN80EX 3
Table 2
MM
WIW DEVELOM           1RWT
TAblX 2: Sites a  Services Compeont:  Iplemntation Schsele
KFY WNICATC5S
FYf83                      FY84         L         Y 85                   FY 86         I         FY87          IFY88
S JA   8 N    JEM   861  JAS JA8   JFM   8       SAS CSD  JFM   MJ  SAS  15(   JF.  86   JAY   (0t  JEM   AK8  JAS   OND
A. L4NS AM[lISTITCN(
State property
Private
Ectersior
B.  MFCASY      REJCISE (0N-811E AM) OFF-SrTE)
Yarttborks - Laadfil  '                                 R                                                     %2012 15   l _ rtloek  X
Streets conf. and msrfacirg
Drainage - opn  d-annels smin.
Drainage - open channels seckdo .                             7     9    25   28       14    7     Streets    drainage X
Drainage - curbs ard ll cladmels
(Ped.) - snell concrete slab bridges
(Veh.) - large cncrete slab bridges
Water Wlppiy
Main pipes 4 - 6"
Main Appes 1l2 - 2"                                        8    16     8      4     28    24    12 water a pplyl 
Fire fighters' outlets
Sanitary blocks
Cap-Saitlen amd Les Cayes (6 cabi-)                            19   28                    4     8     8    12    13     8     8    Sanitary blocks
Lintha, (11 cabins)
Pablic lighting
Poles                                                                               9    42    33    16   Pablc ligiting
Shelter
Total lot. prep.                                                                                                                                                                   i
32 .2 - 45 2 ecoesic - hweing
|60 ;.2 - 13 r.2 co-rc. -  -IIl ind.- hoa.                   |       19    29                  4     8    12  |12      8      8    Sh il ercotractor h,nilt 7
I    Contrctor bWilt .it.
-.ller nidt. (11 tn 13 .2)
larger rdita (aWpsro. 16 ,o2)
SMote-ial loaes (08$)                                                                                             13   18      6    40    10     8      5          14terial loans
Iosdty facilities
HEalth centers                                                                    8    12   33           26          21    ( ity facilities X
Social cmenotr
| makets
tarts as ds lling udt.s allocation  are lots (A. L               70  109
((A   |           28   425                                                252   196    92    36
wttb oats (B                  45   69                                                191   182  109      1
(C                                                                        45    31    10
bare lots  (D                 13   30                                     22          22    22    22    21                19    18   18   18    14
(E                                                             4           4      4     4     3                 3     2     2     2    2
_           _____                                                                _       _           I                  



-40-
A'*NNEX 3
Table 3
HA I TI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators
TABLE 3:   Schedule of Bidding and Award of Selected Contracts
Bidding                   Construction
Documents                 Contracts
issued                   Signed
Estimated      Actual      Estimated      Actual
I. Sites and Services
1.1  Earthworks, Linthau II             10/82         10/82        11/82         [1/82
1.2  Earthworks, Cap-Haitien             3/83                       6/83
1.3  Earthworks, Les Cayes               6/83                       9/83
1.4  Housing Linthau II                  3/83                       6/83
1.5  Housing Cap-Haitien                 1/84                       7/84
1.6  Housing Les Cayes                   4/84                       7/84
II.  CDB Market
2.1  Earthworks Lot A                    4/83                        7/83
2.2  Earthworks Lot B                    6/83                        9/83
2.3  Market structures Lot A             9/83                        1/84
2.4  Market structures Lot B            12/83                        3/84
2.5  Market construction Lot A          10/83                        1/84
2.6  Market Construction Lot B          12/8:3                       3/84



-41-
ANNEX 4
HA ITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAGMAP ORGANIZATIONAL CHART AND OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
PAGE 1:   Organizational Structure of SAGMAP
PAGE 2-3: SAGMAP Operational Procedures



-42-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF SAGMAP
MINISTER OF INTERIOR
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL DIRECTORATE
General Director
Secretary
ACCOUNTING                Consult:ative        DIRECTORATE OF OPERATIONS
Committee of                                     I
Chief Accountant            Market Users         Director of Operations
Accountant                                       Secretary
PaymasterI
.    Secretary                                                t a
PERSONNEL                                            COLLECTIONS
Chief                                                Chief
Assistant                                            Controller
Secretary                                            Collectors
HYGIENE                                              MAINTENANCE
Sanitary Officer                                     Chief
Supervisors
Concierge
Maintenance Staff
Cleaning Staff
SECURITY
Chief
Supervisors
Guards



-43-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAGMAP Operational Procedures
1.           The Board of Directors would consist of:   the Minister of
Interior as President;  the Ministers of Finance, Agriculture and Public
Health;  the mayors of Port-au-Prince  and  other  metropolitan  areas  and
municipalities, as they are incorporated in the operations of SAGMAP, and
the Director General  of  SAGMAP.    Its  responsibilities  would  include:
technical, administrative and financial organization and management of
SAGMAP; approval of recruitment and renumeration norms; approval of annual
income and expenses, including the establishment of tariffs; approval of
annual financial statements; approval of general budgets; and approval of
the expansion program to the other areas of Port-au-Prince.
2.           The General Directorate would comprise the Director General's
office, including the secretary and the services of personnel, accounting
and hygiene; and the Director of Operations with its three main activities
collection, maintenance, and security. The responsibilities of the General
Directorate would be to carry out the policies adopted by the Board of
Directors and to execute its decisions concerning changes for the better
operation of SAGMAP.
3.         The operation of the market would be governed by the "cahier des
reglements", or rule book that would be prepared during the construction
phase.  The basic rules would cover the three main areas of market opera-
tions:  (a) Maintenance:  The object of which would be to promote the best
hygienic conditions and to provide for upkeep of physical installations.
The rules would detail:  daily solid waste collection and disposal and en-
suring the removal of garbage containers; washing down the organic products
sales areas; ensuring that merchants clean their stalls and cover or repack
their goods at the end of the day; and, regularly wash and clean the sanit-
ary facilities and dormitory.   The maintenance  and cleaning operations
would take place during the day and after hours.  Given its large surface,
the open-air market would be washed once a week with the aid of a cistern
truck.  These activities would not include supervising the washing of food
products.   This function would be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Public Health, which would also establish relevant norms and guidelines.



-44-
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
(b) Revenue Collection and Control: The rule book would establish the five
sources of revenue for the market: vendors or retailers; warehouse renters
or wholesalers; truck drivers or wholesale transport; "brouettiers" or re-
tail transport; and, public parking of middle-income buyers.  It is deemed
impractical to impose charges on the "Madame Saras", or market-women, and
unfair to charge the lowest-income ambulatory vendors, who would derive
little direct benefit from the market.  Revenue collection is discussed
under cost recovery (para. 6.07) and financial analysis (para. 6.03).
Detailed rules would be prepared un.der the technical assistance/preparation
phase of SAGMAP (see para. 2.09).   (c) Security and Surveillance:    The
general parameters for market operation with regard to security and
surveillance are:
(i)   retail market operations would be carried out between 5 a.m. and
6 p.m.; this would allow for necessary daily cleaning; on one day
a week, Sunday, retail areas would be closed all afternoon for a
more thorough cleaning;
(ii)   the wholesale market would remain open 24 hours a day, largely
because trucks arrive at all hours and unloading activities
follow suit;
(iii)   some control  over all circulation areas would be conducted  to
ensure  that  ambulatory  vendors  do  not  install  themselves
permanently thereby obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
to allow them to function, they would be allowed free access to
and through the market;
(iv)    SAGMAP would enforce the above regulations and, when necessary,
impose sanctions (of an educational rather than punitive nature).
However, whenever civil laws are broken (as opposed  to market
rules), municipal police would be asked to intervene.



-45-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF EPPLS
PROJECT MiANAGEMENT         FINANCIAL CONTROL
2 project managers          2 financial contr.
ENGINEERING                                                    fTREASURY
3 engineers                            ~Financial Analyst
|BOPROJ ECTOTreasurer
EXCTIVE DIRECTO
ARCHITECTURE                                                          ACCOUNTANTS
1 architect                                                           2 accountants
1 supervisor
1 draftsman
.~~AMN   SEVIE
GENERAL~~~~               admiistato
1~~~~~~ clr
SOCIOLOGY                                                         2soee
2 sociologists                                                    i receptionist
3 social workers                                                  2 cooks
2 trainees                                                        3 housekeepers
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMessengers
I          Caretakers
PROJECT ADMIN.
1 administrator                                                     a
4 controllers
2 inspectors
1 account clerk
2__inspectors



-46-
ANNEX 6
HA ITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CDB Market Upgrading: Detailed Description
PAGE 1-5:    Detailed Description
TABLE 1:      Effects of Vendors Fees on Vendors Revenues



-47-
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
HA ITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CDB Market Upgrading Detailed Description
1.          The Site.   During the preparation of the proposed project an
economic analysis was conducted to determine the optimum location for the
market. The analysis, coinciding with the physical planning view, indicat-
ed that the existing location of the CDB was the best site for the new
market.   The site which is just under 12 ha.,  already belongs  to the
municipality.      Its  disadvantages  are  mainly  the  lack  of  on-site
infrastructure and that it is partly built on with temporary and permanent
structures. It will therefore require clearing and preparation prior to
construction.
2.        The clearing of the site would require indemnifying the owners of
various types of buildings.   These include:   121 stores or storefronts;
eight shops or small industries; 644 dwelling units; and one small Baptist
Church. Indemnization, which would cost an estimated average of US$50/m2,
would only cover the buildings since the land they are built on (illegally)
belongs to the government.l The most serious problem is the large number
of  dwellings  involved.    There  are  1,053  families  occupying  the  644
dwellings.   Only about 30% of the units are owned by the occupants.  The
rest are rented. Thus, the owners would be indemnified but the occupants
would be relocated  to nearby serviced  sites.   The proposal would be a
distinct improvement on government policy, which in the past (usually, but
not always) simply indemnified owners, while offering no alternative to
low-income renters. For the first time, these renters would now have the
possibility of purchasing a sites and services unit at prices below those
they currently pay in rent for their shanties.
3.         Site preparation would require demolition of existing structures
and earthworks involving the removal of 0.3 m. of organic material and the
addition of some 1.3 m. of select fill material.   The preparation of the
site would also require moving a high-tension line and a railroad used for
sugar cane transportation that cross the area to a path alongside it, and
adapting a storm drainage channel recently built by an IDB-supported proj-
ect to accept the storm drainage system for the market.
4.         The Wholesale Market.  Designed to be eventually converted to a
retail facility, the wholesale market would consist of two long parallel
buildings (110 m x 28 m) with a net storage capacity of 4,400 m2, under a
1/   The total cost of indemnization comes to about US$725,000 which has
been rounded off to US$800,000 and included in the total cost of the
market.



-48-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
total  covered  area  of  6,160  m2.    The buildings  can be  divided  into
variable-sized depots, depending on the needs of the wholesalers.   Each
building has a loading dock for 22 vehicles on either side, and there is a
parking area for another 100 trucks2/ adjoining the wholesale market.
Access to the wholesale market would be controlled (as it is to the other
markets) and the whole area will be fenced. The wholesale market could ac-
commodate 15% more depots than those displaced by the market, with greatly
increased convenience and efficiency.   In addition, by concentrating  the
wholesale depots in one area, and separating transport of passengers and
freight, this development would help alleviate vehicular congestion in the
downtown area;  the Boulevard de la Saline which provides access to the
wholesale market connects directly to the main roads ncorth and south of the
metropolitan area (see IBRD Map No. 16757).
5.           The Retail Markets.  This subcomponent involves two groups of
buildings  or  markets  for  retail  purposes,  St.  Joseph  and  Remparts,
which would be located in the center of the new CDB.  They are also the
only two 'permanent' installations inasmuch as the wholesale and open air
markets are specifically designed to eventually be modified, whereas these
are not.  Retail operations and their respective individual net sale areas
are as follows:   agricultural prodlucts, 2.20 m2; manufactured goods, 2.20
m2, meat and fish, 4.30 m2; cooked foods, 3.20 m2; services (shoe repair,
etc.), 3.20 m2.  On this basis, the St. Joseph market with a total area of
11,567 m2 and Remparts3/ with 8,757 m2, would  accomniodate the following
vendors:
Vendors                      St. Jose!ph            Remparts              Total
Agricultural products            1,543               1,082                2,525
Manufactured goods                 909                 658                1,567
Meat and fish                      172.                173                  345
Cooked foods                      220                  138                  358
Services                          153                  185                  338
TOTALa/                      2,997                2,236               5,233
a/ This refers to the installed vendors, not the small-scale ambulatory
vendors.
2/   Frequency by type of vehicle was estimated by the "Service autonome de
transports" to be, by 1990,  an on the basis of 2 hour periods for
merchandise loading or onloading, as follows:
Type                                Daily Frequency (2 hours periods)
Vehicles over 3 tons                                 135
Vehicles under 3 tons                                170
Brouettes                                            290
3/   The markets are named by the main transversal  streets that provide
access to them.



-49-
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
6.          The retail markets would consist of simple, standarized, 20 m.
wide structures organized around 16 m. wide open courtyards to provide
natural lighting and ventilation.   This system allows for the design of
each group of buildings to conform to the irregular shape of the site.
Stall sizes would vary with the type of merchanside.   Thus, the meat and
fish stalls would allow for the future installation of single or collective
refrigerators and wet counters.   The exception is the cooked food/eating
areas which, because of their special  ventilation and space needs  (for
cooking and seating customers), are organized in smaller, standardized
units that act as joints or nodules among the larger structures.
7.         The Open Air Market.  Complementing the 'covered' retailed mar-
kets, the Macajoux market would provide a large open area (12,527 m2) to
accommodate up to 1.5 times the overflow of installed retail merchants,
estimated  at about 3,000.   The paved,  fenced-in area would  have storm
drainage, water taps and sanitary modules, which besides providing the
desired sanitary environment, would allow for the collection of fees.  The
subsequent construction of a permanent covered market would require no
further installation of infrastructure networks.
8.         In keeping with this progressive development approach, the Maca-
joux market area would also temporarily house the inter-urban passenger
terminal--a simple open paved area. The terminal would eventually be moved
to the old Gare MacDonald once that facility had been upgraded--after its
current occupants, retail merchants, are in turn relocated to the CDB. The
upgrading of the Gare, however, would not be part of the proposed project.
The Government would reserve the existing facility for that purpose.
9.        Access, Circulation and Parking.  Besides the temporary bus ter-
minal mentioned above and the freight truck terminal in the wholesale mar-
ket, the project would provide parking space for 203 vehicles next to the
retail markets4/ and space for the "brouettes" along the Boulevard de la
Saline.   The 'brouettes" would circulate primarily along an interior ser-
vice road connecting the wholesale and retail markets parallel to the
Boulevard de la Saline and separated from vehicular and pedestrian
traffic. With the objective of keeping the Boulevard de la Saline as fluid
as possible, all vehicular and pedestrian traffic to the market would have
access from the eastern side, or the downtown area, only (see IBRD Map No.
16757 except for freight trucks. The interior service road would intercon-
nect the markets and be accessible to garbage removal, emergency and main-
tenance vehicles only.  The total length of roads to be upgraded or built
in and around the markets would be 1.37 kms.; total parking areas (trucks
and vehicles) would be 2.27 has.
10.       Sanitation.  A major problem in upgrading the market is the water
supply.  The proposed project would combine different systems to meet the
demands of a population of 10,000 vendors (by 1995), assuming 3 liters per
day for drinking purposes, and 40 liters per day for the 25% of vendors re-
quiring water for business purposes (washing meat, fish, and cooked
4/   Once the temporary terminal was removed,  the parking area would be
increased by an additional 131 spaces for cars and 48 for trucks.



-50-
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
foods). Total demand for potable water would then be 130 m3 per day. This
would be met through a 200 m3 cistern and a network of five 18 m3 elevated
tanks, all supplied by city networks (two hours a day) and, during the six
month rainy season, by rainwater from the extensive covered surfaces.
Water would be pumped from the underground cistern to the elevated tanks
for distribution.  However, this would not provide for more than a two-day
reserve during the dry season and the possibility of ae deep well is being
studied.5/  Brackish water for operating the sanitary modules, for clean-
ing and for fire fighting purposes would come from six shallow (5 m - 8 m)
wells next to each of the modules.  The total demand is estimated at about
800 m3 per day (720 m3 for the sanitary modules of 80 m3 for cleaning).
11.       The six sanitary modules would be strategically located through-
out the market.  Each would consist of 12 Turkish style latrines over a 60
cm duct which would be flushed automatically every five or six minutes by
siphon.   The siphon would be activitated as a 600 liters reservoir is
filled by a pump from the shallow brackish.  The same source would be used
for cleaning water and fire protection needs.   The sewage from sanitary
modules would be treated in a collective three-chamber septic tank.   The
effluent would then be channeled tc, the storm drainage system.
12.       Support Facilities.  The market would require a small 145 m2 unit
for storage of maintenance equipment, a guard/fee collection control unit
(7.5 m2 each) at the access of each of the four enclosed market areas, and
a small (675 m2) administrative building to house the staff and activities
of SAGMAP. In addition, given that the market would be closed for cleaning
every night, a minimum dormitory facility would be included to accommodate
the current amount of overnightin;g vendors.   A simp:Le, 450 m2 structure
would be built over the underground reservoir, at the far northern end of
the market to accommodate, for a small individual fee, about 180 people on
simple wooden bunks.   A  sanitary module would be located  next  to the
dormitory unit.
13.        Design Standards.  The guiding principles for the overall design
of the market have been low cost, durability, flexibility, and ease of
maintenance. Thus, the buildings have a concrete post and galvanized steel
truss structure; the low soil resistance requires continuous concrete
foundation.   The proximity to the! sea requires that the tin roofing or
siding be adequately treated.   Interior partition walls in the wholesale
market would be of metal-structured cyclone fencing, as are the exterior
walls of the retail markets - above a one meter cinderblock wall - anid the
overall enclosure of the market.   Ventilation,  and as much as possible,
lighting, would be natural.   The electrical network would be largely for
security lighting since the market would be closed at night. The seawater
resistant pumps would be backed by manual pumps; and maintenance require-
ments have been reduced as much as possible. The sanitary modules would be
self flushing, with no mechanical parts.  The interior of the modules, the
market buildings and the dormitory would be cleaned simply by hosing down.
To this end, use of brackish water would be provided due to the scarcity
5/   The  studies,  presently  being  conducted,  would  be  retroactively
financed after loan signature.



-51-
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
and expense of fresh water. All furnishings, as far as possible, would be
locally pre-cast concrete. The storm drainage system would also carry grey
waters and treated sewage, and the circulation system would be of minimum
standards. Six meter wide access streets would channel storm drainage and
would have a 7 cm double-couche carriage way.  Parking areas and the open-
air market would be surfaced with a double layer of impregnated compacted
gravel.



-52-
AINEX 6
ThBLE 1
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1: Effect of Vendors Fee on Vendors Revenues
(daily, in Gourdes)
Original                25                50                75                10(
,Average Sale     Without  With    without  With    Without  Wi-th    Without  WTHE
Cost                23     23.1       46     46.2        69    69.4       92      92.5
Tariff            0.25      1.5        0.5    1.5         1      1.5       1       1.5
Sales               25     25.5       50     51          75    76.5      100      102
Revenues          1.75       0.9       3.5    3.3         5      5,6       7        8
Yield  %          7.0       3.5        7.0    6.5        6.7    7,.3       7.0    7.8
Change of Rev.             -0.85             -0.2              +0,6               +1.0



-53-
ANNEX 7
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Sites and Services: Detailed Description
PAGES 1-4:     Detailed Description
TABLE 1:       Methods of Cost Recovery from Beneficiaries
TABLE 2:       Cost Recovery Estimates
TABLE 3:       Affordability (US$) - Les Cayes
TABLE 4:       Affordability (US$) - Cap-Haitien
TABLE 5:       Distribution of Monthly Household Income, March 1982
TABLE 6:       Estimated Demand for Housing in Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes
TABLE 7:       Costs and Benefit Streams:  Linthau II
TABLE 8:       Repayment System
TABLE 9:       Sites and Services Contract Packages



-54-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sites and Services Detailed Description
1.           The Sites.  Despite the relatively low level of urbanization,
Haiti's  cities  have  little  suitable  land  for  urban  development.    In
Port-au-Prince, Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, the component involves draining
and filling floodable areas - i.e.,, 'creating' urban land.  The high cost
of landfill would be compensated by the low cost of land--plus excellent
location with regard to job markets and urban services for the poor.   In
Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, the proposed sites are within the main urban
areas. In Port-au-Prince, in addition to cost and location considerations,
the site would have to suit the population to be relocated from the CDB.
Thus, the Linthau II site was selected, in the heart of the massive
low-income Cite Simone district, which is a 15 minute walk from the CDB
market.   In addition,  the Cite Simone area is the site for the ongoing
UNDP-supported Drouillard sites and services project, and for the planned
KfW-financed  Linthau  I sites  and  services  and  upgrading  project.   The
proposed project is compatible with the master plan for the area, prepared
recently with KfW support.
2.        The Sites and Services Schemes.  The component would involve the
production of some 2,407 units in the capital and two secondary cities, as
follows:   1,036 in Port-au-Prince,  1,093 in Cap-Haitien and 278 in Les
Cayes.   The component was designed on the basis of the executing agency's
estimated capacity and took account of the relative sizes of the cities in-
volved. Of the total number of lots, 86% or 2,062 would be for low-income
housing;l/ the remaining 345 would be larger lots for combined housing and
commercial or industrial use2/--ancL to cross-subsidize the smaller units.
Thus, the price of land and infrastructure for the 'commercial' units would
be costed at 10% to 40% above the base price.3/  The cross subsidy, very
low standards and progressive development through self-help construction
would allow very low-income groups 1o have access to the! project.
1/   Eight-hundred  twenty-one units in Cap-Haitien, 238 in Les Cayes, and
1,003 in Port-au-Prince.
2/   Two hundred seventy-two units in Cap-Haitien, 40 in Les Cayes, and 33
in Port-au-Prince.
3/   These are still below market prices for equivalernt sites, given the
scarcity of urban land.



-55-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
3.         Layout.  The typical block would be made up of 134 lots, with a
total area of 6,720 m2 (80 m x 84 m).  The lots would be organized in four
clusters around semi-private courtyards.  The sanitary facilities would be
at the entrance to each courtyard.   In the proposed Cap-Haitien and Les
Cayes schemes there would be five types of lots, whereas in Port-au-Prince,
there are only four, as shown in the following table.
LOT TYPE, SIZE AND LOCATION
Lot/             Cap - Cayes                           Port-au-Prince
Type    Dimensions          Locations          Dimensions        Locations
A    4 x 8    =  32 m2   on courtyard       4 x 9  =  36 m2  on courtyard
B    4 x 10   =  40 m2   on side street   4 x 9  =  36 m2  on side street
C    6 x 10   =  60 m2   on main roads   (4x 9  =  36 m2  on main roads
(5 x 9  =  45 m2  on main roads
D    variable = 100 m2   on main road       6 x 20 = 120 m2  on main roads
E    variable = 120 m2   on main road         -
The relative value of a lot is a function of both size and location in a
typical block.  Thus, the most inexpensive lots would be the smaller ones
and/or those that share the inner courtyard; the most expensive would be
the larger ones on main roads. The subsidized lots (86%), would be type A
& B; the subsidizing lots (14%) would be types C to E.  The average land-
use coefficients for the proposed projects are 67% for lots and semiprivate
courtyards; 22% for circulation and storm drainage; and 11% for community
facilities and/or green areas.
4.        Dwelling Units.  Given that the target population can only afford
very modest payments,  standards would be kept  to a minimum.   This is
reflected in lot sizes and levels of infrastructure, and in shelter solu-
tions.   These would consist of a contractor-built, one room, expandable
basic unit. The cinder block walled, tin roofed units have no direct dwel-
ling connections but share communal water taps and sanitary facilities.4/
In Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, there would be two unit types:   a 10.6 m2
model for the smaller lots type A and B; and a 15.90 m2 model for lots Type
C. In both these cases, the larger commercial lots, D and E, would have no
basic unit but could be immediately provided with connections given their
locations with regard to the infrastructure networks, and would be
appropriate for other than purely dwelling uses.   The smaller lots with
basic units would also be provided with materials loans for their
development and consolidation through self-help.   In Port-au-Prince the
basic unit would also come in two models:  13 m2 and 16.3 m2; their design
4/   The  design,  however,  allows  for  future  connections  of  water,
electricity and, eventually, sewerage networks.



-56-
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
would allow the units to be eventually enlarged.  In addition, the Linthau
II project in Port-au-Prince provides a minimum bare lot solution, in order
to reach the very lowest income groups.   It would include a 36 m2 'Lot in
the interior of a cluster, a wall, against which a temporary lean-to could
be built, and access to a sanitary unit and water tap. The total number of
options, combining different basic unit models with lot types are shown in
the following table.
NUMBER OF DWELLING OPTIONS
Option                 Lot Type        Cap-H.      Cayes       P.A.P        Total
Small serviced site       A             -           -          179          179
Lot plus basic unit        A           448         128         710        1,286
B           373         110         114          597
C            66          20          -            86
Large serviced site        D           186          10          33          229
E            20          10          -            30
TOTAL                             1,093          278      1,036        2,407
5.        Sanitation.  Although the fact that Haitian cities have no sewage
systems would in itself curtail any conventional solution, the poverty of
the target population demands that even latrine-based solutions be shared,
to lower costs.   Thus, sanitary units located at the entrance of housing
clusters would provide collective services for every 33 or 34 lots on the
basis of one latrine for every four families and a shower for every eight
to ten.  The latrines would be emptied every six months to twelve months by
pump-equipped tank trunks.  This low-cost system has been tested and is
being successfully carried in Port-au-Prince by the ONL (St. Martin-
Drouillard project) and other agencies.   The sanitary module would also
provide water taps for cooking and washing needs, as well as a common
receptacle for garbage disposal.
6.          Design Standards.  As described above, the design standards of
the layout as well as the dwellings and sanitary service!s are of the lowest
possible levels. The circulation networks would consist of compacted, sur-
faced  roads and  footpaths.   The circulation  system would be  primarily
designed to accept emergency vehic:Le and garbage collection and latrine-
emptying trucks.   Storm drainage would be a surface system leading into
open channels along the main transversal streets and eventually to the
sea.  In Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, the public lighting system posts would
be located  at the entrance of the clusters  to provile lighting  to the
street, the courtyard, and, through translucent roofing to the sanitary



-57-
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
units initially.  There would be no individual electrical dwelling connec-
tions.   In the Linthau II project, costs would simply exclude any public
lighting system initially, except along the existing major road, (rue
Ovide).
7.          Community Facilities.   The proposed subprojects would include
basic community facilities only when no other services in the vicinity are
available.   In these cases, the structures are of the lowest appropriate
standards and are designed to allow the greatest flexibility to maximize
their  functionality.    They  are  also  intended  to  serve  not  only  the
subproject in question but the larger immediate area as well.   In both
Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, a community center doubling as an EPPLS regional
office would consist of a 144 m2 covered area, including a 58 m2 enclosed
space. In Les Cayes, in addition to the community center, a 132 m2 Health
Post would be provided. In Cap-Haitien, there would be a small market con-
sisting of three open 288 m2 covered structures, for a total of 864 m2. In
Port-au-Prince, given that the Linthau II site has nearby markets, schools
and medical services, only a large green area/football field would be pro-
vided - following a requirement of the KfW funded Master Plan for the over-
all Cite Simone area.



-58-
ANNEX 7
IABIE 1
M.111
URE AN DEMENr PRCOJECT
EPPIS
I\BIE 1: MET1D1S CF COST RECOVERY ERCM BENEFICIARIES
Mode'               Annual                     Term
All          Cap/Cayes   Linthau II            All
1. PREERED LAND
Land acquisition on site                  (
Earthworks on site                        (Lease           6%           8%            30 year renewable
ard Proportional phys. cont., price cont. (
Proj. prep. ard supervision               (
2. ON SITE INFRASIRUKTURE
Streets ard drainage   ) ani proportional
Water supply           ) phys. & price
Sanit. blocks          ) cont.             AnDrtz.         6%           8%            25 yr.
Public lightirg        ) proj. prep. &
) supervision
3. SHELT1R
Contractor built       ) a proportional
Material loans         ) phys. & price     Amortz.         6%           8%            25 yr.
) cont.
) Proj. prep. &
) supervision
4. DEFAUL  FUND - 2%                           Month/          -            -             25 yr. (for
anDrtization)
Payment
5. MMIGEMENT & MKINTENAN(E CONIRIBUIION - 5% Month/            -            -            25 yr.
Payment



-59-
ANNEX 7
TABLE 2
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 2: Cost Recovery Estimates
Sites and Services Component
Total Cost
% of Cost Recovery
Total          Modality
Shelter
Land acquisition                                  100.47        100 direct rent
Housing Construction                            1,857.26        100 direct rent
Infrastructure onsite earth                                     100 direct rent
moving, streets and drainage                  1,103.37
In-site water supply and sanitary blocks          542.68        100 direct rent
Management promotion and allocation               525.23        100 direct rent
Supervision                                       201.98        100 direct rent
Municipal Facilities and Services
Off-site infrastructure:
Water                                           96.42        100 indirect rent
Electricity                                     77.67        100 indirect rent
Earthwork, street lighting and drainage        504.16        100 indirect additional
tax on building
Markets                                           101.20        100 direct rent on
location
Garbage collection and street
maintenance                                     n.a.          100 indirect municipal
bdgt.
Studies and Complementary support Activities
Other infrastructure work
Community facilities: health center                34.65        0
school                    ) 55.00
commun. ctr.              )              0
Project preparation                               111.52        0
TOTAL S.S. Component.....                         5,311.61       )83.4% direct
)12.8% indirect



-60-
ANNEX 7
TABLE 3
HA]ITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 3: Affordability (US$) - Les Cayes
C o s t                      Lowest Percen-
Nuimber                   Infra-                tile with access
of       Prepared   structure    Montly   (25% of income
Option             Plots        Landa/   and Constr.   Payment  combined)
Lot 32 m2              128         235.8
50%      (7.37/m2)
1 room auto constructed
without floor                                      485.2         15.1         33
i room without floor                                 766.0          '3.24       48
1 room with floor                                    838.1          3.79        51
2 rooms                                             1284.4         12.19        66
3 rooms                                             1498.4         13.81        76b/
Lot 40 m2              110         368.4
43%     (9.21/m2)
1 room auto constructed                              485.2          7.45        42
without floor
1 room without floor                                 766.0          9.58        56
1 room with floor                                    854.1         10.25        60
2 rooms                                             1480.0         15.02        79b/
3 rooms                                             1765.1         17.17        83b/
Lot 60 m2               20         640.3
7%      (10.68/m2)
1 room without floor                                1148.0         15.28        75
1 room with floor                                   1252.1         16.08        82bl
2 rooms                                             2294.7         24.00        90b/
3 rooms                                             2595.7         26.28        91F/
TOTAL                  258c/       NA           NA            NA          NA
a/   Land is rented at 6% annually.
b/   22% of income committed.
c/   The commercial lots are not included.



-61-
ANNEX 7
TABLE 4
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 4: Affordability (US$) - Cap-Haitien
C o s t                       Lowest Percentile
Number                   Infra-             with access
of      Prepared      structure  Monthly  (25% of income
Option                Plots    Landa/       and Constr. Payment  committed)
Lot 32 m2             448         238.1
51%     (7.44/m2)
1 room auto constructed
without floor                                      485.2       6.27     26
1 room without floor                                 766.0      8.47      39
1 room with floor                                    838.1       9.04     42
2 rooms                                             1284.4      12.55     54
3 rooms                                             1498.4      14.23     61b/
Lot 40 m2             373        317.6
42%     (7-94/m2)
1 room auto constructed                              485.2       7.10     31
without floor
1 room without floor                                 766.0       9.30     43
1 room with floor                                    854.1       9.99     46
2 rooms                                             1480.0      14.92     63b/
3 rooms                                             1765.1      17.14     676/
Lot 60 m2              66        595.2
8%     (9.92/m2)
1 room without floor                                1148.0      15.17     59
1 room with floor                                   1252.1      15.99     65b/
2 rooms                                             2294.7      24.18     75b/
3 rooms                                             2595.7     26.54      786/
TOTAL                 887c/       NA            NA          NA        NA
a/ Land is rented at 6% annually.
b/  22%of income committed.
c/ The commercial lots are not included.



-62-
ANNEX 7
TABLE 5
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 5: Distribution of Monthly Household Income, March 1982.
(Gourd es)
Cap                   Cayes               Linthau
1st decile            66                      59                20 -  120
2nd decile        67 -  106                60 -  86            121 -  120
3rd decile       107 -  137                87 - 114            156 -  225
4th decile       138 -  172               115 - 143            226 -  270
5th decile       173 -  216               144 - 175            271 -  305
6th decile       217 -  306               176 - 207            306 -  385
7th decile       307 -  422               208 - 276            386 -  465
8th decile       423 -  654               277 - 351            466 -  605
9th decile       655 - 1111               352 - 544            606 -  885
10th decile          1112                    545               886 - 7900
Median                217                    176                  306
Source: Updated March 1980 survey conducted by consultarLts in Cap-Haitien
and Les Cayes and June 1982 household survey in Croix Des Bossales
where the Linthau target population is located.



-63-
ANNEX 7
TABLE 6
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 6: Estimated Demand for Housing in Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes
Cap                     Le Cayes
1980-85   1985-90        1980-85    1985-90
(a) Total Demand due
to pop. growth            1,800      2,200          1,000       1,100
(b) Demand due to growth
of poor population        1,080      1,320            600         660
(c) Resolution by 1990
of a 1/3 of precarious
dwellingsa/:                 775       775             285       285
Total (a)+(c)         2,575      2,975          1,285       1,385
Total (b)+(c)         1,855      2,095            885         945



-64-
ANNEX 7
TABIE 7
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 7: Cost and Benefit Streams
Linthau II Sites and Services
IRR: 23.932
YEAR                                 COSTS                     BENEFITS
1                                    402,022                   -
2                                    699,698                   193,248
3-16                                                           268,377
Cost and Benefit Streams
Cap-Haitien Sites and Services
IRR:: 11.195
YEAR                                 COSTS                     BENEFITS
1                                     52,912
2                                    404,752                    51,872
3                                    444,142                    112,931
4                                    :308,142                   187,170
5                                      8,904                    224,535
6-16                                   7,142                    242,108
Cost and Elenefit Streams
Les Cayes Sites and Services
IRR: 17.807
YEAR                                 COSTS                     BENEFITS
1                                      2,133                   -
2                                     98,887                     3,608
3                                    187,582                    11,355
4                                     13,198                    59,840
5-16                                   2,133                   63,754



-65-
Hnll                                        ANEK 7
JABIE 8
LRBAN IEVEILP!N PROJECT
TABIE 8: Sites and Services Conots
Repayment Systen
Goverrment   EPPIS        DrPCr         CAEP/SNEP   ED'H        MLICIP.
Total S & S          EPPLS         Goverrment   Govxrmment   Governmat   Govenment GoverrMEnt
A. IAND STAIE RP.                (38.00)         -
Private OM                   35.18         35.18
Private OFFS.                11.23                      11.23
Extension                    (16.07)         -            -             -         -
Subtotal                  10048           35.18       11.23
B. CFF-SITE INFRASRUCTlFRE
Earth-,rks                   272.11        -            272.11
Str. & drain                 186.22        -            186.22          -
Water suppLy                  87.50         -           -               87.50      -
Public lighting               70.61         -           -               -          70.61
Subtotal                   616.59        -           458.33           87.50      70.61 1
C. ON-SITE INETASTRIXlRE       1,496.41      1,496.41        -              -         -
D. SHELTER                     1,688.42      1,688.42         -              -
E. CtMIN. FACILITIES
Social center                (50.00)               -                      -          -
Health center                (31.50)                       -                   -          -
Markets                       92.00         -              -              -          -         92
Subtotal                   173.50         -              -              -         -           -
Subtotal A - E                           3,220.01       469.56          87.50      70.61       92
F. IMFL. COSTS
Prov. prep.                  111.52                        -                   -          -
Supervision                  201.98
Adm. & prom.                 (525.23)
Subtotal                   883.73         -
Subtotal A - F             4,914.12        -                      -            -
G. PI1YSICAL C0ONrINEI-IES       397.49        -                              -
Subtotal A - G              5,311.61        -
H. PRICE CoNrTINES               959.19        -                              -
TOIAL ClRENr              6,270.76         -                             -         -
( ) -nonrepayable - buigetary allocations or irdirect recovery
Interest (%)                                   2               8              8         8            8
Term (total grace)                             44a/           3Cb/           3Cb/       3Cb/        25b
a/ During the four year grace, 2 % interest will accuumnlate to prinripa1.
b/ They pay government back interest durirg construrtion assumning rereiving works after 4 years:  4% (2% x 4
years divided by 2).



URRN IEVEOPMENr PROJECI
2ABIE 9: SITES AND SERVICES CONBACCr P(CKGES
(1E$'c000)
Cap-Haitien                                   Les Cayes                                   Linthau II
Inter-                                     Inter-                                      Inter-
Local    national Ex-ante   Ex-post        Local    national Ex-nte   Ex-post        Local       national   Ex-nte  Ex-post
1. Ianlfill, streets ani
drainage                -       852.70  852.70        -          175.47      _       175.47      -           579.40b/    -         579.40     -
2. Water supply             104.83     -       104.83      -            14.62     -         -         14.62        58.70       -         58.70      -
3. Public lightirg           63.24     -         -        63.24         14.43     -         -         14.43        -           -          -         -
4  Health center              _ -                -          -          )62.t5     _                   62.15
5. Social center           )128.70     -       128.70      -           )          -         -          -           -           -          -         -
6. Market                  )-
7. Sanit. blocks &  )k       -        425.00  425.00       -           247.90     -        247.90      -           -         410.16     410.16      -
hous. constr.C/)B       -       425.70  425.70       -             -        -         -          -           -         615.00      615.00     -
TOL                     2%.77   1,703.40 1,936.93      63.24       514.57     -        423.57     91.20       638.10  1,025.16    1,663.26      -
% of Value               14.8     85.2      %.8         3.2        100.0      -         82.3      17.7         38.4        61.6     100.0       -
Ntmber of contrarts          3         3         5         1             5        -          2        3             2           2         2         0
a/ All the figures incluie all taxes art 10% physical contingerries. Prire continenries -nt fir-. ed.
b/ Local bidding is proposei due to the urgerry to relocate CDB population, this tD stard this contract.
c/ Althotgh two pa2kages are proposed, it will be possible for one contractor to win both contrarts. TUIAL:  4,178; international:  2,728.56 (65%); local:
1,449.44 (35%).



-67-
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance to EPPLS
Unit Costs
A. Training
US$
Travel to Europe/North America and South America                      1,000 (per trip)
Travel to Africa/Asia and others                                      2,000 (per trip)
Travel to Central America/Caribbean                                     500 (per trip)
Per diem outside Haiti                                                  100 (per day)
Per diem in Haiti                                                       100 (per day)
Training fees for seminar in Haiti                                      200 (per day)
Training fees for seminars overseas                                     200 (per day)
Type of Training Required
Study tour in Central America
Travel (US$500) + (10 x US$100)                                    1,500 (per person)
Study tour in Africa or Asia
Travel (US$2,000) + per diem (20 x US$100)                         4,000 (per person)
Study tour in South America
Travel (US$1,000) + per diem (20 x US$100)                         3,000 (per person)
Seminar to be held at EPPLS
Fees for 2 experts during 5 days (US$2,000)
Travel for 2 experts (US$2,000)
Per diem for 2 experts during 5 days (US$1,000)                    5,000 (per seminar)
On-the-job training:
Central America:  travel (US$500) + per diem (20 x US$100)    2,500 (per person)
Africa or Asia:  travel (US$2,000) + perdiem (40 x US$100)    6,000 (per person)
Europe or N. America, or S. America:
Travel (US$1,000) + per diem (30 x US$100)                      4,000 (per person)
Training Program
4 seminars for EPPLS engineers (US$5,000/seminar)                    20,000
7 study tours:  Central America (US$1,500/person)                    10,500
5 study tours:  Africa/Asia (US$4,000/person)                        20,000
2 study tours:  S. America (US$3,000/person)                          6,000
1 on-the-job training:  Central America (US$2,500/person)             2,500
1 on-the-job training:  S. America (US$4,000/person)                  4,000
2 on-the-job training:  Africa/Asia (US$6,000/person)                12,000
TOTAL                                                             75,000



--68-
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
_A ITI
URBAN DEVELO)PMENT PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance to EPPLS
US$
B. Technical Assistance
I. Unit Costs
MA - Management advisor:  fees                                        8,000 (per month)
FA - Financial analyst:   fees                                        6,000 (per month)
EA - Engineering advisor:  fees                                       6,000 (per month)
SOC- Sociologist                                                      5,000 (per month)
A/C- Accountant:  fees                                                2,000 (per month)
Travel (return air fare for family)                              2,000 (per trip)
Cost of living allowance (C.L.A.)                                2,700 (per month)
II.  Technical Assistance Program
Management advisor (MA)
Fees (US$8,000) t- C.L.A. (US$2,700) x 3 =                     32,100/quarter
Financial Analyst (FA)
Fees (US$6,000) + C.L.A. (US$2,700) x 3 =                       26,100/quarter
Engineering Advisor (EA)
Fees (US$6,000) + C.L.A. (US$2,700) x 3 =                        26,100/quarter
Sociologist (SOC)
Fees (US$5,000) + C.L.A. (US$2,700) x 3 =                       23,000/quarter
TOTAL COSTS (including travel)
MA US$32,100 x 9 = US$288,900 + US$4,000) =                        292,900
FA US$26,100 x 8 = US$208,800 + US$2,000 =                         210,800
EA US$26,100 x 6 = US$156,600 + US$2,000 =                         158,600
SOC US$23,100 x 4 = US$92,400 + US$2,000 =                          94,400
A/C                                                                  2,000
TOTAL                                                              758,700



-69-
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
III: Allocation of Technical Assistance Costs
(US$S'00)
YEAR                 1982                                     1983                                     1984
Months                                Quarters                                  Quarters
S      0       N       D         1         2           3         4           1        2        3        4       TOTAL
MA:1         11.7   10.7   11.7    -           -          -           -         -           -        -        -                 30.1
MA:2          -      11.7   10.7   10.7        32.1      32.1        32.1      32.1        32.1    32.1    33.1        -       258.8
FA:           -       -       -      -        27.1      26.1         26.1      26.1        26.1    26.1    26.1    27.1        210.8
EA:           -       -       -      -        27.1       26.1        26.1      26.1        26.1    27.1       -        -       158.6
SOC:          -       -       -      -        24.1      23.1         23.1      24.1         _        _        -       -         94.4
A/C:                  2.0    -        -         -         -           -         -           -        -        -        -          2.0
TOTAL        11.7   24.4   22.4   10.7    110.4    107.4            107.4      108.4        84.3    85.3   59.2        27.1    758.7
C. EQUIPMENT
Allocation of US$100,000 for the purchase of a micro-computer, office equipment and the provision of office
facilities for EPPLS.
a/ Identified in 1980 by photo interpretation.



I



9rL9L G:I                        _______           I
,.Z.                                                                              583~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ZW
_   a     X                             7f11d9H,1  3NdGW                                                                                                   oinl              V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... . 
,0D,:/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NU:O SOWM
2 t  X   X   X  /   /                                                             \      9                                       i             IIUOdE v 5311dU3ON.HO >FU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vtv o8- i  n
E C r \ l ZroUd oN10v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S raNNts3d v9& 
9    :i 9                                                                                                                                                 _iIfD^h1?  9vN






I BRD 16757
_                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 1982
HAlTI
-----                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT-AU- PRI NCE
MACAJOU                                                                                                    PROPOSED CDB MARKET
-) /g t  8 =       - > ( ~~ARKVET                                                                                                   [,._0Paved platforms
!t _l  S   s<4    <>>   \                                                                            ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- $;1  1Cove,edareas,retailand./holesolemarkets
> .>>< -- ogfB . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Open ci, morket,,eta,l
|   i   l   Ffa   mfSggi)  <>  N  lX:  Future covered areas, retail morket (non project)~~~vtue cverd aeas reailmaret nonproect
2 ~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                                                       i    Parkj>\  Wttin ara ntdIs
|    E  i  _ 0 | e   zi 8 ~~L2 W . <                                                                                                   Fountaines
0 ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ T0  1-                                                                                  G   EWrddlXdlslme  yFE   0   0   0
Kilomet drs t .7 92. 09n v d O 9 \ f - t _< j ,1s re/ritory y a dorsemenl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7do   71d^,   ob  606 -t8  47ir  crlbrSht Sd a    Dy > IAQ.   as pta O 6 to ]J



I
I 



____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ IBRD     16758
HAITI
CAP- HAITIEN
SITES AND SERVICES
EXPAN FUU   PROJECT
BUS~ -fni, bx loin or
',, B.si Unit, 4s iOn  oF  
~'~>  <  A'                K.,    \; \',,       ,j5:           ';E i           1                0               ''    Bsic.n,r, 4o8 r ost
\                             W                                                              >~~~~                                                                                         ~          ~~~             ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ''  >'    -S  ",  Eeniaetiladmmerciolp orn
Coinmn---ai pot
Sen--ty uniht-
X   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~           _                   \                                      1 t0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISA)    A 4                oe_ >o     
\   \                                                                            Ho P/w1 S rrpsy. on the oore o! +ne   .IAMAIC4   HAI I fl >       PUSPTC                                   p ld nu PrInce *   >  HA 1:  CUEPT
_    Coin rn.y facile Us r,
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. _____                                                                                                                           ssn



---



IBRD 16759
- 5     OC7OBER 1982
_ T LtIli II   141 -1-1- I "I I I                                  I
'6 0   E                                                             .,
72        E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
LLJ     cn c oE           0 E_
ui ~ ~ ~ -~I
if)                                                -         __ 'o_
I 228   -                                                                                                                        ,,cE  X  I  -   
I                2 
'0g                                                                                   - - - - -t  - - -
~~~W -'-<-':< -S                                                                                l I
DMINICAN REPUBL,FCt                                             :/0           0r.         Xl
)EJ          <t       4' a  112  C                                         1'S    
-s 0a1 !                 - m e   -                                                                                     I - - - Z
LU                      fiI  RA S  IX.1.. I                                                                               Ioo
I                        II- MJUIII rE            I                                                                           I
A             LILIt    M                                                     j 7
-z
--'  I~~~
64~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I  I
Zt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  i   L - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
DOMINICAN  R8PUBL~-                         - --  --  -  --  --   -  --     --  --  - --   --  -  -- --  -
ltj~~~~~~~~~~~I






IBRD 16760
I e, y7VWU5A  7       72                           60_                               OCTOBEE  1982
WodV&Vk~,t,Ve~Te.',1r J~,    IBAHAMAS                                     0      0                             550
TVCU>       Kjs>  'thenadwrsot  . -'J C;- A EIAHAM     24    Kllomeeers   '7     >>              7 r'2
,4E  Lp-     3   0  FC      ,D0    e.,      3                   \                       d,r,V, I  Te We                                                                                            . I
- -                                                                              Waed8akenaon, esfFt,atsa7 /.
F E E T   0    I 0         0         3 0 C                        2
________         ________________                                             Hdg,,,~,,,    Ahe  I94/  TtaTe  Id 4?3  2             REPUBLEA
F  m<                                                                                                                                              PORT-AU-PRINCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UET
3 1  2   E   ]    1      9                 V                                   | ~~~       ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~~                 ~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-IV  =   i--t"    X'dPcu 
0 """'- 2  2   gL             *                                                        u1  W  0    *,  X no-X0,                 ,-        2
HAITI
PORT-AU -PRINCE
LINTHAU II
SITES AND SERVICES
.1  ~   Z _  ,o m                                                                                                                                                                                    m ercial  lo ts
LL.LLLLttEt.,.                                                                                                                                                        Residential
LJL..LLL,LOJ                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Basic unlit
121]  VJ12il  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Basic unit
1"'J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Surveyed plot, shnared
F~~~~~~~D  ~~~~~~ ~Social activities airea                                                                                                          6cwl
~~7>                 t1i ~~~~~~~Sanitary urnits
~~~~               ~~~~~7"~~~~~~~~                                                                        'F ~~~~~~~~~~~~  [ ~~~~~~Open spaces
~~~~WLWLLL1L<3~~~~~~~1                                       LJ2~~~~J~~            /   7',   x,                ___ ~~~~~~~Roads
1121  [1111]   LEJII                                                                                 'z ,v'   7' y                          Existing euilt-up areas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xitin bil
~~                           ~          ~                                                       '                                     7''~~~  '"p7'"R                       Drainage canals
7<  ,,-"             ~~~-.-International boundary
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
E=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 <0
'j,~ ~ ~~~~/    K



