OFFIC A
DOCUMENTS      CREDIT NUMBER 1338 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1338 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  /3/                        , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION     (hereinafter  called  the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by Resolution No. IDA 82--6, adopted on October 26,
1982, of the Executive Directors of the Association there has
been established by the Association a Special Fund constituted by
the funds which shall be contributed by certain members of the
Association and administered by the Association, acting as
Administrator of such Special Fund, for the purpose of, and in
accordance with, the provisions of said Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Fund in the
financing of Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and the Administrator has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution referred to above;
(D) by the Special Fund Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Fund Credit Agreement) of even date herewith,
the Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
Special Fund Credit (hereinafter called the Special Fund Credit)
to assist in the financing of Part A of such Project, on the
terms and conditions therein set forth;
(E) Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by
Entreprise   Publique   de   Promotion   de  Logements   Sociaux
(hereinafter called EPPLS), the Borrower's Public Social Housing
Promotion Company, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EPPLS part
of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(F) Part D of the Project will be carried out by an agency
of the Borrower to be established before the Effective Date, with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to such agency part of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided, and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
EPPLS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SAGMAP" means Societe Autonome de Gestion des Marches
de l'Aire de Port-au-Prince, a metropolitan market management
agency to be established by the Borrower and to be responsible
for the carrying out of Part D of the Project;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EPPLS of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EPPLS pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SAGMAP pursuant to Section


﻿-3-
3.02 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the SAGMAP Sub-
sidiary Agreement;
(e)  "Special Account" means the account to be opened pur-
suant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(f) "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications of the Borrower;
(g) "Project Unit" means the unit established within the
MPW;
(h)  "SCUD" means the special commission for urban develop-
ment established by the Borrower on August 4, 1981, with such
responsibilities as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment; and
(i)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 21, 1979, June 19,
1979, December 3, 1980 (countersigned by the Borrower on Febru-
ary 20, 1981) and July 24, 1981 (countersigned by the Borrower on
July 28, 1981) between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit


﻿-4-
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance and
Economic Affairs, shall, for the purposes of the Project, open a
Special Account in a commercial bank or the Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Payments out of
the Special Account shall je made exclusively to pay the reason-
able costs of goods and services required to carry out the Pro-
ject and to be financed under this Agreement in accordance with
the provisions of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 hereto.
(d) The Association shall, upon receipt from the Borrower
of an application for withdrawal and information identifying the
Special Account, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account an initial
amount in the currency of the Borrower equivalent to SDR 460,000.
Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, the Association on
behalf of the Borrower shall further withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal
to payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures for
the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only
to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with
any amount remaining on deposit in the Special' Account as of the
date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of SDR 460,000. Except as the Association shall
otherwise determine, each such deposit after the initial deposit
shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account under the same Cate-
gories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts as have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposits furnished pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section.
(e) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit into the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment out of the
Special Account such documents and other evidence as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
to pay the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the


﻿-5-
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from
the Credit Account; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further deposit
in the Special Account, deposit in the Special Account or refund
to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or of the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
when (i) the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit
Account under Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement, or (ii) when the
total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account, plus the amount
of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association
and of any special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 6,480,000, whichever shall be
sooner.   Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
amounts of the Credit shall follow such procedures as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association and shall be made
only to the extent that the Association shall be satisfied by the
evidence submitted in support of the applications for such with-
drawals that all payments by the Borrower out of the Special
Account and out of -the proceeds of the Credit were made on
account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the Asso6iation   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designat-d or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installmenta payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1993, and ending December 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project and shall cause SAGMAP to carry out Part D of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and


﻿-7-
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall exchange views with the Association
in March of each year on the proposed budget allocations for the
Project and prior to August 15 of each year on the adequacy
thereof.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, until the
Borrower and the Association shall so determine, a Project Unit
with such powers, responsibilities, personnel and resources as
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause EPPLS to carry out Parts B and C
of the Project, and to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, neces-
sary or appropriate to enable EPPLS to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Credit available to EPPLS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EPPLS under terms and con-
ditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which
shall include (i) 4% interest per annum for 25 years on the funds
transferred for Part B.1 of the Project, (ii) the transfer as a
non-revocable grant of the funds necessary for the carrying out
of Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall, promptly after SAGMAP has been
established, make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to
SAGMAP, as a non-revocable grant, under a subsidiary agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SAGMAP under terms and


﻿-8-
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
which shall include, inter alia, the provisions set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SAGMAP
Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in Part A of
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing Part A of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out oi the proceeds of
the Ciedit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of Part A of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall transfer to SAGMAP as a capital
contribution, not later than December 31, 1983, 16 hectares of
land at the Chancerelle military airport, for the construction of
a wholesale market.
(c)  The Borrower shall utilize the existing facilities of
the Gare Macdonald at Port-au-Prince as a passenger transport
terminal.
Section 3.06. Upon the construction of the facilities
included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall assign to
SAGMAP, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, the
operation and the maintenance of such facilities.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the


﻿- 10 -
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out Part A of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts for Part A of the Project; (ii) have the Special Account
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement and the separ-
ate accounts referred to in paragraph (i) above for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later-than four months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such
year as so audited and (B) a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to
the Association such. other information concerning the accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gener-
al Conditions the following additional events are specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) EPPLS shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that EPPLS
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c) the Decree-law of the Borrower establishing EPPLS,
dated November 26, 1982, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of EPPLS to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(d) SAGMAP shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(e) the Decree-law of the Borrower establishing SAGMAP
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SAGMAP
to perform any of its obligations under the SAGMAP Subsidiary
Agreement;
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EPPLS or SAGMAP or for the suspension of their opera-
tions; and
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit or of any grant or loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) the Special Fund Credit or any such loan shall
have become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) ad-equate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (e) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and


﻿- 12 -
(c) any event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of-Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EPPLS;
(b) that SAGMAP has been established and the SAGMAP
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and SAGMAP;
(c) that the Association has received evidence, satis-
factory to the Association, that the Special Account has been
established; and
(d) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Special Fund Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to- be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EPPLS, and is legally binding upon EPPLS in accor-
dance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EPPLS and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EPPLS in accordance with its terms;
(c) that all action necessary for the establishment of
SAGMAP has been taken; and
(d) that the SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SAGMAP and is legally


﻿- 13 -
binding upon the Borrower and SAGMAP in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date  Pl       . 3O,91?As hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances et des
Affaires Economiques
Palais des Ministeres
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Telex:
3490347
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex:
440098 (ITT)
248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works and             4,500,000        100% of foreign
related supervision,                        expenditures
materials and                                and 77% of
equipment for                               local expendi-
Part B of the                                tures
Project
(2) Equipment for:                50,000         100% of foreign
(a) Part C of                               expenditures
the Project                            and 77% of
(b) Part D of                 35,000        local expendi-
the Project                             tures
(3) Technical assistance                         100% of foreign
and training for:                           expenditures
(a) Part C of                640,000        and 10% of
the Project.                           local expendi-
(b) Part D of                50,000         tures
the Project
(4) Initial Deposit in            460,000        Amount due
Special Account                             under Section
2.02 (d) of
this Agreement
(5) Refunding of Project         920,000         Amount due
Preparation Advance                         under Section
2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                   745,000
TOTAL         7,400,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or sup-
ply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 740,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) (a) and (3) (a) on
account of expenditures made before that date but after August 1,
1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement iercentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿- 17 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrow-
er, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.   Rehabilitation and Upgrading of the Croix-des-Bossales
Central Market Area
Construction of: (i) a wholesale market; (ii) two retail
markets; (iii) an open-air market; (iv) an administrative build-
ing; and (v) a building for public dormitories; and related
infrastructure, at the Croix-des-Bossales central market area in
Port-au-Prince.
Part B.   Sites and Services and Office Facilities for EPPLS
1.   Provision of on-site infrastructure for, and construction
of: (i) about 1,036 service sites in Port-au-Prince; (ii)
about 1,093 service sites in Cap-Haitien; and (iii) about
278 service sites in Les Cayes.
2.   Provision of off-site infrastructure for the service sites
included in Part B.1 and construction of basic community
facilities in Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes.
3.   Rehabilitation and expansion of the administrative facili-
ties of EPPLS.
Part C.   Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment for EPPLS
1.   Provision of technical assistance and training for the
reorganization of EPPLS.
2.   Acquisition and utilization by EPPLS of micro-computing,
engineering and office equipment.
Part D.   Technical Assistance, Training and
Equipment for SAGMAP
1.   Provision  of  technical  assistance  for  drafting  rules,
operating procedures and operating budgets for SAGMAP, and
of training for SAGMAP staff.
2.   Acquisition and utilization by SAGMAP of micro-computing and
office equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works for Parts B, C and D of the Project
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works for Parts B, C and D of the Project to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding, in
addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines,
the Borrower shall cause, EPPLS or SAGMAP, as the case may be, to
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and
in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalifica-
tion documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders *of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall cause EPPLS or SAGMAP, as the case may be, to
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods 'or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Haiti
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Haiti
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Haiti equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall. first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 21 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Cr,dit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, EPPLS may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bid-
ding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.     After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an
amount equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids
received under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 22 -
With respect to all contracts esti-ted to cost the equiva-
lent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause EPPLS
or SAGMAP, as the case may be, to furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifi-
cations and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall cause EPPLS or SAGMAP, as the case may be, before a
final decision on the award is made, to inform the Association of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, -and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and EPPLS or SAG-
MAP, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall cause EPPLS or SAGMAP, as the case
may be, to furnish to the Association, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it


﻿- 23 -
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
EPPLS or SAGMAP, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall cause
EPPLS or SAGMAP, as the case may be, to inform the Association of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower and EPPLS or SAGMAP, as
the case may be, and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Responsibilities of the SCUD
The responsibilities of the SCUD will include:
(a) the recruitment of SAGMAP management, including the
director general, director of operations, the heads of personnel
and accounting and the division chiefs, the recruitment of sup-
port personnel, and the operation staff;
(b) together with the SAGMAP management team:
(i) the   studying  and  planning   of  the  temporary
arrangements for market activities during con-
struction; and
(ii) the programing and overseeing of the proposed
training of staff upon recruitment, according to
the nature of their jobs; and
(c) the preparation of SAGMAP's first operational budget
presentation to the Board of Directors upon its formal establish-
ment.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the
SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement
The SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement shall include, inter alia,
provisions requiring SAGMAP:
(a) To carry out Part D of the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices.
(b) To, not later than 18 months after the Development
Credit Agreement has been signed, employ consultants for the
carrying out of Part D of the Project whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(c) To procure the goods required for Part D of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(d) To insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available-to it by the Borrower against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SAGMAP
to replace or repair such goods.
(e) To cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
(f) To furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
procurement schedules for Part D of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 26 -
(g) To: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of Part D of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Part D of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(h) To authorize the Association, upon the award by SAGMAP
of any contract for goods, works or services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, to publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(i) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SAGMAP and
the Associatio., to prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
Part D of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(j) Not to take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigiing or waiving the
SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
(k) To, at the request of the Borrower or the Association,
exchange views with the Borrower or the Association , as the case
may be, with regard to the progress of Part D of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under the SAGMAP Subsidiary
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(1) To promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part D of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the


﻿- 27 -
Credit, or the performance by SAGMAP of its obligations under the
SAGMAP Subsidiary Agreement.
(m) To establish, before the start of the operation of the
facilities under Part A of the Project, and thereafter maintain a
fee structure satisfactory to the Association so as to produce
revenues sufficient to: (A) cover its operation and maintenance
costs and the.depreciation of its fixed assets; and (B) maintain
a ratio of operating costs to total revenues (working ratio) not
greater than 0.9, in order to permit gradual upgrading and incor-
poration of all municipal markets in the metropolitan area of
Port-au-Prince.
(n) To forward to the Association, for review, any invest-
ment plan in an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 (two million
dollars) or more.
(o) To carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(p) To operate and maintain at all times its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
(q) To take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
(r) To maintain records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices,
its operations and financial condition.
(s) To (i) establish and maintain a separate account for
Part D of the Project; (ii) have its accounts (including the
separate account referred to in paragraph (a) above) and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acc-itable to the Association;
(iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any


﻿- 28 -
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the separate account referred to in para-
graph (i) above and its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) a certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning said accounts,
financial statements, records and expenditures, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(t) To employ and maintain a General Manager whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
(u) Upon construction of the facilities included in Part A
of the Project, to enter into contractual arrangements, satisfac-
tory to the Association, with the Borrower's agencies responsible
for the provision of the support services for such facilities,
regulating the provision of said services by said agencies.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of   '__    ,
198.3
FOR SECRETARY


