DOCUMENTS REDIT NUMBER 1338 HA
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ENTREPRISE PUBLIQUE DE PROMOTION DE
LOGEMENTS SOCIAUX
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1338 HA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    /3/                      , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and ENTREPRISE PUBLIQUE DE PROMOTION DE LOGEMENTS
SOCIAUX (hereinafter called EPPLS).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Haiti (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
EPPLS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EPPLS, part of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to EPPLS on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS EPPLS, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EPPLS shall carry out Parts B and C of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-2-
with   appropriate  administrative,   financial   and  engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist EPPLS      the carrying out
of Parts B and C of the Project, EPPLS shall, not later than 3
months after the date of this Agreement, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) EPPLS undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by EPPLS to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) EPPLS shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) EPPLS shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Parts B and C of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) EPPLS shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Parts B and C of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's *representatives to visit the


﻿- 3 -
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any rclevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts B and C of
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by EPPLS of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between EPPLS and
the Association, EPPLS shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Parts B and C of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by EPPLS
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(e) EPPLS shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of EPPLS and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. EPPLS shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EPPLS shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) EPPLS shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts B and C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) EPPLS shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of Parts B and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by EPPLS of its obli-
gations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
Section 2.08. (a) In carrying out Part B of the Project
EPPLS shall:
(i) apply construction standards commensurate with the
ability to pay of prospective purchasers, such
standards to be satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)  lease the lots and sell the dwelling units at
levels. permitting the recovery of all on-site
costs;
(iii) finance the lease of the lots and the sale of the
dwelling units under contracts establishing for a
repayment period of twenty-five (25) years and an
interest rate on the outstanding balance of 8% per
annum for lots located in Port-au-Prince and 6%
per annum for lots located in other cities; and
(iv) obtain from the purchasers of the dwelling units a
mortgage guarantee.
(b) EPPLS shall review, in coordination with the Asso-
ciation, each year, starting on October 1, 1983, and if required
by the Association revise, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, the interest rqtes referred to in paragraph (a)
(iii) of this Section.
Section 2.09. Upon construction of the facilities included
in Part B of the Project, EPPLS shall transfer, under contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, such facilities,
and its related infrastructure and equipment, to the Borrower's
agencies which will be responsible for their operation and main-
tenance.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPPLS
Section 3.01. EPPLS shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,


﻿- 5 -
financial, and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPPLS shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and re-
newals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. EPPLS shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. EPPLS shall forward to the Association, for
review, any investment plans in an amount equivalent to one
million dollars ($1,000,000) or more.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EPPLS shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. EPPLS shall:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts for Parts B
and C of the Project;.
(b) have its accounts (including the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section) and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of the separate accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section and its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (ii) a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(d) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EPPLS thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
EPPLS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿- 7 -
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
For EPPLS:
Entreprise Publique de Promotion
de Logements Sociaux
Delmas 3
Rue du Foyer, 34
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EPPLS may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as its General
Manager shall designate in writing, and EPPLS shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ENTREPRISE PUBLIQUE DE PROMOTION
DE LOGEMENTS SOCIAUX
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
zate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of,      L,
198
FOR SECRETARY


