t1   1            |              t   g    -  g   s   3   8   g g   i S..    S   
sII
ji I 
II.                                                       . 



Currency B9tuivalents
The official monetary unit is the Syli (GS)
Syli 1  =        US$0.04
USS1           Syll 23
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BD                 barrels per day
Glh                 gigawtt hours
NV                  megaatts
toe                tons of oil equivalent
Hydrorente         Agency in charge of retail gasoline
sales
HQI                Hydro Quibec International
Importex           Agency in charge of oil imports
MI=3K               Ministry of Energy aud Konkovurf
NW;                JNnistry of Nimes and Geology
ONIE                Office National des Hydrocarbures
PCIAC               Petro Canada International
Assistance Corporation
SGH                 Socigt6 Guineenne des Hydrocarbures
SRE                 Societ-e ationale d'Electricite
SOGUIP              Societe Guineene des Petroles



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Amount:              SDR 7.7 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
*       Terms:                Standard
Project              The project would assist the Ministry of Mines and
Description:        Geology in promoting available acreage in the country to
international oil companies for exploration. It would
include (i) seismic surveys on two zones offshore
'ii) geological field surveys on the onshore Bove
basin,(iii) technical assistance by exploration con-
sultants to develop and implement a promotion strategy
and accounting assistance in respect of exploration
activities; (iv) technical, economic and legal training;
and (v) meterials and equipment needed in execution of
the project. It would assist the Ministry of Energy and
Konkoure in improving the reliability of Conakry's
electrical service by an extension of an ongoing
technical assistance contract for the electric power
utility, SHE.
Benefits & Risks:    The potential benefits to the country are high if oil
companies undertake exploration as a result of this
project. Another benefit would be in developing the
Government's capability to participate in and administer
oil exploration activities in the country. The principal
risk in this project is that the promotion effort
ultimately does not yield any further industry
interest.
I This document ha a resicted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their ofricial dutis.. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost:                  Local      Foreign      Total
(Net of taxes and duties)                   --(US$ thousand)-------
Seismic Surveys and Processing              -        6,300.0    6,300.0
Geochemical Analysis of Field Samples       -           30.0       30.0
Technical Assistance
Oil Exploration Promotion                90.0      1,200.0    1,260.0
Electric Power                          30.0         900.0      930.0
Training                                   30.0        150.0      180.0
Materials and Equipment                   150.0        200.0      350.0
Total Base Cost                           300.0      8,780.0    9,080.0
Contingencies
Physical                               30.0        880.0      910.0
Price                                 70.0         940.0    1,010.0
Subtotal                            100.0      1,820.0    1,920.0
Refinancing of PPF Advance                -        1,000.0    1 ,000.0
Total Project Cost                     400.0      11,600.0   12,000.0
Financing Plan:                           Local       Foreign      Total
-u----     sUM million)…------
Government                               0.4             -        0.4
IDA                                        -           8.0        8.0
Petro Canada International
Assistance Corporation                    -          3.6        3.6
Total Financing                          0.4          11.6       12.0
Estimated Disbursements:                  FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87
----------(USn million)-----------
Annual                                   1.5       3.5       2.5       0.5
Cumulative                               1.5       5.0       7.5       8.0
Staff Appraisal Report: Not prepared.
Map: IBRD 17305



iNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REP'JBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for
SDR 7.7 million (USS8.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a petroleum exploration promotion project. Additional financing for
the project would be provided by the Petro Canada International Assistance
Corporation (PCIAC) in an amount equivaleat to US$3.6 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Ecoanomic Memorandum was distributed to the Board in August 1981.
A new Memorandum gas discussed with the Government in November, and will be
distributed to the Board shortly. This section summmarizes its contents,
focusing on changes in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent
years.
3.       Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw declining
economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about 1973-74. Economic
activity, with a stimulus from mining, grew rapidly between 1973-76, but again
at a slower pace since then. At present, most of Guinea's 5.5 million inhabi-
tants live at the margin of poverty. With a per capita income of about US$300
in 1982, G-ainea belongs among the least developed countries as classified by
the United Nations. Life expectancy is only 44 years, infant mortality is
about 17 percent, 90 percent of the population has no access to safe water,
and 80 percent of the adult population is illiterate.
4.       Since 1976, and particularly since 1979, Guinea has been re-examining
its development policies, institutions, and relations with the outside world.
It has recently announced significant policy reforms. Important first steps
have been taken towards improved economic management and decentralization of
the economy: excessive money supply was gradually reduced; more explicit
performance criteria and greater autonomy of public enterprises are being
introduced; sectoral public holding companies have been dismantled, and a
reform of the banking sector has been initiated. There is greater acceptance
of technical assistance for planning, investment programming, and project
preparation, and increased recognition of the need for economic pricing of
resources (e.g., interest rates have been doubled and electricity tariffs
increased). Private trade has been legalized, state retail trade has been
discontinued, and many price controls have been permitted to lapse, thus
liberalizing and encouraging the agricultural sector. Private investment,
small and medium-scale enterprises, foreign direct investment, and the return



of expatriate Guinean capital are being encouraged, and some private enter-
prises have been allowed to import and export most goods and to borrow and
hold foreign erchange. Enrolments in higher education have been reduced and
more students are being directed to vocational training; manpower planning is
being introduced, and the guarantee of state employment to school graduates is
being reappraised, with a view to curtailing the increase in public employ-
ment. These measures reflect a significant and broadly based attempt to
address Guinea's deep-seated problems and poor economic performance, and
represent fundamental changes from past policies.
Recent Performance
5.       Despite these positive steps taken in recent years, Guinea's economic
development remains hamDered by structural problems. The economy is stag-
nating and the balance of payments faces chronic deficits.  Foreign exchange
supply cannot satisfy domestic consumption, service external debt, and finance
capital and recurrent costs of existing and new projects. Limited absorptive
capacity hampers investment and the inflow of foreign capital.  The overvalua-
tion of domestic currency perpetuates distorted prices and wages and creates
an unattractive environment for producers and investors (both domestic and
foreign), affecting output and export performance.  The main productive sector
- agriculture - produces well below potential because of inadequate producer
incentives, inputs, eztension services, infrastructure and marketing facili-
ties.  Guinea's current pace of economic development permits neither an
increase in the standard of living of the population nor the generation of
domestic savings for self-sustained growth and development.
6.       Increased domestic output especially for exports, a stricter control
of aggregate demand, as well as quantitative import restrictions, allowed
Guinea to record a balance of merchandise trade surplus of about US$66 million
per year on the average between 1979-81. This resulted in a reduction in the
current account deficit to 3.4 percent of GDP from 6-7 percent of GDP in pre-
vious years. However, the capital account remains in difficulty because of
Guinea's inability t^ attract higher capital inflows while facing important
amortization obligat:ons. Overall balance of payments deficits have thus
represented 5.5 percent of GDP between 1979-81 (about US$90 million per year),
and they have been financed in equal proportion through an accumulation of
debt arrears and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange reserves.  In mid-
1982 foreign reserves covered only about two weeks of merchandise imports.
7.       Governmert's current revenues (about 33 percent of GDP, largely
dependent on mining exrorts). increased at a rate of 9.6 percent per annum in
1977-81, while at the same time current expenditures advanced at an annual
rate of 12.9 percent, mainly on account of expanding government bills for
wages and salaries and of growing interest obligations.  At the same time, the
state enterprise sector has absorbed heavy subsidies not only on current
account but also in the form of capital transfers and indirectly through the
intermediation of the state banking system.  In total, the parastatal sector
received about GS 20 biDIlion (US$1 billion equivalent) of financial support,
or 13 percent of GDP anrually over the 1977-81 period.  The overall deficit of
the Government reached USS3.6 billion ecuivalent (10 percent of GDP) in
1981.  In an attempt to curb the growth of current expenditure on -wages and



salaries, the Government has eLforced a decline in university enrollments from
20,700 students in 1978/79 to 12,100 students in 1981/82, and has terminated
the automatic recruitment of new graduates into the public sector.
8.       Other than the enclave mining projects, most productive invectment in
Guinea is of a public and parapublic nature. During the last development plan
(October 1973 to December 1978), public and parapublic investment reached
US$478 million (55 percent of planned expenditure) averaging 10 percent of
GDP. Total investment was modest at 15 percent of GDP on the average. Two-
thirds of centrally-planred investment was financed by foreign assistance.
The ongoing plan (1981-85) projects much higher investments of US$1.6 billion
(in 1980 prices), favoring agriculture (31 percent) and industry (14 percent).
Many of the proposed projects are, however, in preliminary stages of prepara-
*        tion, and their financing is not yet sure.  It appears unlikely that the pro-
posed investment targets can be reached. During the 1979-81 period, public
and parapublic investment represented about US$164 million per year in current
terms, remaining at about the same level as the previous plan exercise in
terms of GNP.
9.       Recognizing the need to maintain and use existing capital assets
better, Government has increased the proportion of its recurrent budget for
maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious examination of the
viability of state enterprises and has closed some. The least successful ones
(including the entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry)
have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs,
mostly with external assistance. Recent policies in the parapublic sector aim
at making parastatals financially self-sufficient, more responsive to market
mechanisms, and more receptive to technical assistance.
Prospects
10.      Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial based on
its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential. However, with 80 per-
cent of the population in the rural sector, and with modest national savings
(about 9.5 percent of GDP in 1980) combined with an acute shortage of foreign
exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges on the country's ability
to provide incentives to agricultural producers and to attract foreign capital
for investment in mining, ore-processing, and, eventually, petroleum develop-
ment.
11.      During the 1980's Guinea will continue to face a serious foreign
exchange constraint, despite the projected entry into operation of a diamond
mine in 1984. Existing mining operations have few prospects for expansion in
the coming years, and the downward trend in agricultural exports will be hard
to reverse. At the same time price distortions linked to the overvalued
exchange rate discourage the substitution of the large food imports by
domestic production, while the debt service burden remains heavy.
12.      At present Guinea is excessively dependent on bauxite mining for its
foreign exchange. Diversification of its mineral production is thus a key
element in the country's longer-term development strategy. Iron ore mining is



- 4 -
one promising possibility now under active investigation. Oil exploration
would be another.
13.      The Bank is assisting the Government to formulate and implement a
rehabilitation program aimed at further encouraging private sector develop-
ment, notably in agriculture, increasing the efficiency of the public sector,
and improving resource management. Particularly crucial will be the Govern-
mert's success in correcting price and exchange rate distortions, improving
the structure of agricultural incentives and ensuring rational programming of
public investments. The fo:thcoming Economic Xhemorandum analyzes the policy
options available to the Government. A major Agricultural Sector Review
organized by the Bank with the support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID,
CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO) in November/December 1982, represents a significant step
in assisting the Covernment to reform agricultural sector polLcies. However,
if the Government were to embark on major reforms, Guinea would face a dif-
ficult transition period during the 1980's when increased foreign assistance,
on concessional terms, would be needed to ease the balance of payments diffi-
culties and contribute to a gradual realization of the country's considerable
development potential.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
14.      Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of foreign
assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized countries,
expanded relations with Arab nations and with multilateral sources. Guinea
qualified for drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund
facilities, and successfully negotiated a Stand-By Agreement in 1982. How-
ever, this agreement has now lapsed due to the Government's inability to meet
some of the agreed financial performance criteria, and to reach an under-
standing with the Fund on the issue of adjusting the overvalued exchange rate.
15.      The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in infra-
structure and public enterprises, as well as consumer goods, has resulted in a
burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for years, a major
problem. Guinea's outstanding public and private external guaranteed debt
exceeded US$1.5 billion as of December 31, 1982, of which US$1.2 billion
(76 percent of GNP) was disbursed. Service obligations on this debt are
projected at US$132 million per annum over 1983-87. Foreign exchange short-
ages have hindered the payment of debt service, and outstanding arrears
totalled US$176 million at the end of 1982. The ratio of public and publicly
guaranteed debt service obligations to gross export earnings in 1981 was about
28 percent. Actual service payments on this debt amounted to about 17 percent
of export receipts. Private non-guaranteed debt is estimated at US$300
million in 1982 (20 percent of GNP), and its debt service represented about
10 percent of the 1981 export earnings.
16.      Although Guinea's debt servicing has shown some improvement, accu-
mulated arrears are likely to increase in absolute terms unless there is new
debt rescheduling or major changes in the present allocation of foreign
exchange. The Government has addressed the problem through bilateral debt
rescheduling, and measures to improve debt management via the External Debt
Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank has provided technical



advice as part of its economic work. Government has also undertaken both a
stricter control of investments financed by external credits and a more
judicious official import program. The pressure on imports was somewhat
relieved in recent years by official toleration of some private exports at the
free rate outside official foreign exchange channels. However successful
these operations may be, Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of
foreign assistance on concessional terms during the next few years. This will
be needed not only for investment purposes, but also to provide foreign
exchange for intermediate and consumer good imports which are vital to stimu-
late economic activity and relieve supply constraints, particularly in the
*         rural sector.  Furthermore, net public savings after debt service will be in-
adequate until at least the late 1980s, and local cost and recurrent expendi-
ture financing by external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
17.      The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in FY68
and FY71 for the very successful bauxite mining project at Boke. This project
was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970's for pineapple production and the
rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of these projects,
the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon
broad priorities agreed with Government: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance
of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii) mining
development; and (iv) development of the rural sector. IDA operations in each
of these areas have been approved, with particular emphasis on sectoral
planning, institution building and training. Thus, the Power Engineering
project and subsequent First Power project (FYs79,81) are rehabilitating the
Conakry power system. A Water Supply project (FY79) provides similar assis-
tance. Although the Second Highway project (FY80) continues and extends the
successful first, its performance has only recently recovered following a
period of misuse of equipment and lack of fuel. The Government took firm
action to remove the problems and a Third Highway Project has been appraised.
Enterprise Rehabilitation programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation Promo-
tion Project (FY81) have begun. A first IFC operation, to the AREDOR diamond
mining company, has also made a good start. The FY79 First Education Project
was very satisfactorily implemented, and provided a sound basis for the Second
Education Project, which was recently approved. Physical implementation of
the Conakry Port Project (FY82) is also on schedule.
18.      It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Logistical
support for the rural sector, financial incentives, access to modern techno-
logy and applied agricultural research, have been almost nonexistent. To deal
with these fundamental problems, the Association has supported intervention in
two sub-sectors with substantial growth potential. The Rice Development
Project (FY80) stresses national institution-building and introduces pilot
low-cost improved rice production methods in an area with high potential. A
study of agricultural prices and rural incentives has been completed and the
Government has accepted the need for improved incentives. As part of the



-6-
intensive dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government, a major Agricul-
tural Sector Review (para. 13) will provide a focus for new directions for
agricultural development and policy formulation. The Livestock Development
Project (FY81), which aimed at strengthening the national livestock planning
institutions, improving animal health and productivity and training livestock
sector staff, had substantial implementation problems due to the continuation
of enforced government cattle purchasing. Following intensive discussions,
the Credit was cancelled on September 12, 1983.
19.      Bank Group operations in Guinea now include eleven IDA Credits
totalling US$64.9 million and SDR 62.6 million, and two Bank loans totalling
US$73.5 million. Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation to the
undisbursed balance) compares very favorably with that of other countries,
averaging 40 percent during the past five years, compared with 24 percent for
the Western Africa Region &nd 22 percent for the Bank/IDA as a whole. Guinea's
rate also compares fRvorably with those of other countries at similar levels
of per capita income and development.
20.      Current Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending program, supported
by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is based on a strategy of
promoting growth through support to the directly productive sectors, and by
encouraging key policy reforms at the project and sectoral levels aimed at
improving existing economic mechanisms and promoting market forces. Specific
targets are: (a) giving priority to projects, such as the one proposed, that
increase production and exports; (b) improving absorptive capacity in those
social and infrastructure sectors which support the productive sectors, through
rehabilitation, technical and managerial training; (c) introducing technical
assistance directed towards policy reforms, improved economic management and
resource allocation; and (d) improving capital flows through the promotion of
private investment and increasing the level of cofinancing.
21.      IDA has recently appraised a third project for highway rehabilitation
and maintenance as well as projects for urban planning and rehabilitation, and
for technical assistance for economic management. The Bank is planning to
discuss with Government the price and incentive structure for agriculture, and
is seeking to increase the sectoral knowledge necessary to develop, and condi-
tional upon policy changes, expand agricultural operations. It is equally
important for the Bank to deepen its understanding of the industrial sector
through additional sector work and policy discussions, possibly leading to a
second industrial rehabilitation operation. In the mining sector, final
feasibility studies for the proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron ore project are under
preparation. The Bank is providing technical advice to Government for this
project, as well as for a master plan of the country's water resources, which
will help prepare a strategy for hydroelectric development.
22.      The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and private
guaranteed) at the end of 1980 stood at about 8 percent (including undis-
bursed). Itr portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be 11 percent
by 1985 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service on public
debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, is expected to decline
to 3.7 percent by 1985.



- 7 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Demand and Sapply
23.      Statistical information about the energy sector is poor and incom-
plete. Total energy consumption in 1980 is estimated at 1.2 million toe.
Most of Guinea's energy demand is residential (60%) or industrial (24%), the
latter mainly for mining and processing bauxite; the remaining demand is from
the transport and commercial sectors. Firewood and charcoal provide about 64%
of energy used; they are the primary fuel source for cooking for almost all
the Guinean population, including urban households. While there is no general
supply problem anticipated in the near future, the intensive use of firewood
is leading to significant depletion in the vicinity of towns.
24.      Oil products supply about 34% of energy used.  All oil is imported
as there is currently no oil production in the country. Imports in 1980
totaled about 414,000 tons of which about 63% was fuel oil (260,000 tons),
16% gasoline (65,000 tons), 4% kerosene (15,000 tons), another 16% diesel
(68,000 tons), and 1% lube oil (6,000 tons). The bulk of fuel oil imports
(96%) was used by the two major bauxite companies, which generally import
directly for their own use. Direct imports by the Government were about
112,300 tons in 1980, primarily gasoline and diesel. There is considerable
suppressed demand in the country, a result of limited availability of foreign
exchange to pay for more oil imports. Fuel shortages are a serious bottleneck
to industrial operations and transport. The value of the Government's oil
product imports was US$52 million in 1980 and US$55 million in 1981, repre-
senting about 28% of annual foreign exchange earnings.
25.      The country's current electric power market is divided into the
public power supply system with an operating capacity of 32 NW (17 MV of hydro
capacity and the 15 MW diesel-generated) and the autonomous mining sector with
three independent thermal generating stations totaling 70 MW.  The public
system suffers from a shortage of generating capacity, due to the deterio-
ration of most of its hydro capacity. This situation will improve by 1985
after rehabilitation of two existing sites. With additional capacity coming
on stream, total hydro capacity will reach 47 MW by 1987; along with avail-
able diesel generated capacity, it will be sufficient to meet demand through
the late 1980s. Hydropower is actually Guinea's most abundant energy resource
(a potential of 6,000 MW),l/ due to favorable topography and high annual
rainfall, but it currently represents only 2% of energy use. With appropriate
upgrading and expansion of capacity, more of the country's hydro potential can
be utilized to meet increases in load demand expected in the 1990's and there-
after. A UNDP-financed Water Resources Master Plan, with the Bank as
executing agency, will be completed in November 1983. It will establish
priority sites for hydro development for each region of the country.
1/   30,000 GWh in an average year.



- 8-
Institutions in the Energy Sector
26.      The Ministry of Energy and Konkour& (MINEK) is in charge of planning
and executing the power investment program and overall technical supervision
of the power sector. The Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE) is the state
enterprise in charge of operation of the pover system, supplying electricl.Y
to Conakry and its suburbs and 21 towns and villages. MINEK is also in charge
of the refinery project (para. 30).
27.      The Ministry of Mines and Geology (MMG) has responsibility for the
exploration oa hydrocarbons anid other mineral resources (para. 36). Importer,
an agency in the Ministry of External Commerce, arranges oil product imports
other than those of the mining companies. The distribution of oil products is
conducted by the Office National des Hydrocarbures (ONAH), under the Ministry
of Internal Commerce. All service stations in the country are government-
owned and run by a sister agency of ONAH, Hydrovente.
Investment Plans
28.      There is no comprehensive investment strategy for the energy
sector. In power, the major investment being implemented is the First Power
Project, for which a US$28.5 million IDA Credit was approved in 1980. The
Federal Republic of Germany and France (Caisse Centrale) are providing addi-
tienal parallel cofinancing. It includes rehabilitation and reinforcement of
Conakry's electric power distribution network and technical assistance and
training for the power utility, SNE. In June 1982, a contract for the tech-
nical assistance component was signed between Hydro Quebec International (HQI)
(Canada), and MINEK to provide SNE with 14 experts in engineering, financial
and training fields. The program has already shown noticeable improvement in
the quality of service of SNE: the frequency and duration of power outages in
Conakry have been considerably reduced. This contract expirea in May 1985,
but it is already clear that technical support will be needed for an addi-
tional 7.5 months to assure the transfer of know-how to the Guinean staff.
The Guinean Government, therefore, has requested an extension of the contract
to the end of December 1985. The proposed project would include funds for
this purpose (para. 48).
29.      Other operations concerning electric power include the UNDP-financed
Water Resources Master Plan (para. 25) and recently-complet-q feasibility
studies for a proposed hydroelectric dam (750MW) and relat_ aluminum smelter
at Konkoure. The feasibility of the Konkoure project is low in the medium-
term, owing to the present limited demand for power in the country and low
world prices for aluminum. The Association has been advising the Government
on these studies.
30.      Investments in petroleum exploration include the exploration work
of SGH (para. 35) and those activities to be financed under the proposed
project. There are also plans to install a skid-mounted domestic refinery of
20,000 BD.1/ IDA has expressed its reservations concerning this US$110
1/   To be finarced by private banks.



- 9 -
million project and has encouraged the Government to work with neighboring
countries to achieve a regional balance in refinery capacity. IDA will
continue its dialogue with the Government on this matter in the context of
discussions on balance oW payments and the country's capital investment
program.
Emergy Pricing
31.      There has bees no clear pricing policy with respect to electric
power. in January 1983, at the recommendation of an IDA mission, the Govern-
meat doubled tariffs to an average price of 5.25 sylisJkWh, 1/ thus helping
improve the financial position of SNE. The syli is overvalued, however; when
the real cost of the foreign exchange needed to maintain and operate the SNE
facility is taken into account, the tariffs do not allow full cost recovery.
A study analyzing the tariff structure and its implications will be financed
by France in the next year.  That study will complement planning efforts under
the First Power Project, and the Association will discuss the results of the
study with !IMEE.
32.      Importex has responsibility for setting retail oil product prices.
Generally, prices have been raised each year since 1978. Retail product
prices at the US$ equivalent appear high relative to international prices when
translated at the official exchange rate. Under a more realistic exchange
rate, prices for certain products, such as ga.xoline and the small lots of fuel
oil sold to small government-owned industries, would be considered low:
Product            USS/Gallon, 1982      USS/Gallon       Indicative
at official rate     USing s,' 2/      int'l average 31
Regular gasoline          4.90               1.62               2.29
Kerosene                  4.11               1.35               1.35
Diesel                    4.90               1.62               1.45
Fuel Oil                  1.48               0.50               1.06
The exchange rate issue  is currently a subject of discussions between the
Government and both the IMF and IDL.  Once it is resolved, the structure of
oil product prices could be rationalized. Pricing policies will be a major
topic of a World-Bank/UNDP energy assessment study in Guinea, planned for
FY85.
1/ Equivalent to US22J/kWh using the nominal exchange rate or 76/kWh
using the standard conversion factor of 0.33 recommended for project
analysis.
2/ The standard coaversion factor of 0.33.
3/   1980 data, but prices have been stable over the period.



- 10 -
The Petroleum Sector
33.      Geology-I/  Three regions in Guinea may be prospective for
hydrocarbons: (a) the shallow offshore zone along t-he coast (10,000 km.2) i
water depths up to 30 m; (b) the continental shelf and slope (over 45,000 ki2)
in prog-ressiveli deeper waters, from 200 to 4000 m; and (e) the onshore Bove
basin (8,000 km ). To date, there has been virtually no exploration of the
shallow water zone. From former seismic surveys conducted on the continental
shelf adjaceut to this area, there are indications that a thick sedimentary
section exists, which merits investigation.  While some exploratory work has
already been undertaken on the continental shelf itself (including one well
drilled, which was dry), the zone is so large that considerably more work
needs to be done. It appears from old seismic data that sedimentary forma-
tions exist which are comparable to thosa known offshore neighboring
countries. Modern seismic work could help in determining if the proper
structural and stratigraphic conditions exist. The onshore basin is least
prospective because of the age of the sediments, but field work there would
improve the knowledge of source rock potential which has a bearing on other
areas, particularly the shallow -ater zone.
34..     Exploration History.  There is currently no oil or gas production in
Guinea. Since the early 1960s, there have been occasional geological studies
onshore by French, Soviet and Guinean geologists. Three companies have
explored offshore on the contiaental shelf.  Shell conducted brief airmag and
reconnaissance seismic studies in 1969/70. Between 1974-79, SOGUIP, a joint
venture between the Government and several foreign oil companies,2/ conducted
seismic work of 3,500 line-km and drilled one well, which was dry.
35.      In January 1980, the Government and Union Texas Petroleum formed the
Societe Guineenne des Hydrocarbures (SGH), a joint venture (each with 50% of
shares) to prospert for oil offshore on the continental shelf over a permit
area of 36,000 km . The SGH contract is for 25 years, of which a maximum of
5 years constitutes the exploration period. In August 1982, Superior Oil
bought 75% of Union Texas' share in SGH (thus 37.5% of total shares) and
assumed the position of operator. Subsequently. Superior conducted a detailed
survey of 3,000 line-km over an area where a previous seismic survey indicated
possible structures. In all, about 6,000 line-km were shot by Superior and
Union Texas. Superior has plans to drill a well in the permit area, but the
drilling has been delayed until a border disagreement between Guinea Bissau
and GuLinea, affecting a part of the a( eage held by Superior, is settled.3/
Under terms of the agreement, Superior would have to relinquish 50% of the
permit area by February 1985.  The proposed project complements this ongoing
1/   Refer to Annex IV for further information on the geology of Guinea.
2/   Buttes, CFP, Naftagas and Japan Guinea Petroleum Co.
3/   This disagreement is currently under arbitration.  The proposed
project is not affected because no seismic survey or promotion would be
conducted on the disputed area.



- 11 -
exploration by seeking to promote other potentially attractive acreage in the
country not presently taken up for exploration.
36.      14inistry of Mines and Geology. The MMG is responsible for exploration
of hydrocarbons, as well as for the country's bauxite production and invest-
ment in development of other mineral resources.  It represents the Government
in the SGE venture (para. 35) and will be the executing agency for the pr-
oposed project (except for the technical assistance component for SNE). The
1MG presently has a division of uranium and petroleum, although all government
petroleum activities are presently conducted by SGH. The staff of JMG are
primarily trained in mineral geology and mining engineering; few have any
exDerience in petroleum. Three geologists and two physicists from the
Ministry work in SGH, along with the deputy general manager of SGH, a Guinean
chemical engineer. In addition, the Ministry has two geologists who have some
limited experience in petroleum geo,logy and one petroleum egineer who worked
briefly with oil companies while training in Libya.  These staff require
training as well as the opportunity to work with experienced geologisi.s and
geophysicists.  The development of a capability within the Ministry to
administer oil exploration and development activities would be an important
objective of the proposed project.
37.      Government Strategy for Future Oil Exploration.  Oil imports are a
serious strain on Guinea's balance of payments.  The Government, therefore, is
interested in evaluating all areas of the country which may be prospective for
hydrocarbons, by attracting other private oil companies, in addition to
Superior Oil, to conduct oil exploration.  Moreover, as relinquishments occur
under the SGH agreement, additional acreage will be available for promotion.
38.      Through two PPP advances totalling US$1.0 million, the NMm was able
to hire exploration consultants (Petroconsultants, Switzerland) to review
existing geological and geophysical data on the country. The consultants
concluded that the geology was interesting from the point of view of possible
hydrocarbon generation, but the country was largely unexplored and substan-
tially more exploration work was needed to evaluate it fully. They recom-
mended a program of reconnaissance seismic on open acreage offshore and field
surveys onshore to generate sufficient information to attract greater industry
interest. Their recommendations were used as the basis for design of the
proposed project. On the recommendation of the consultants and with financing
under the PPF, the XMG hired a seismic company (Digicon, USA) to run a test
seismic survey of 165 km on the shallow offshore zone during October 1983; the
survey is extending t-o existing seismic lines to the coast, providing in-
formation tc design the larger reconnaissance program proposed in the -
project. A geologist and geophysicist from the M1G participated in the survey
and are working with the consultants on interpretation of the results.  The
MYG intends to retain the same exploration consultants to assist its staff in
the technical work under the project and in developing a promotion strategy to
attract industry interest.
39.      The NKG proposes to promote the acreage using a coatract modelled
after the SGH agreement. This document with some modifications would provide a
basis for future investment by foreign oil companies. The proposed project
would include training of Guinean government staff (other ministries concerned



- 12 -
with planning and finnce, as well as MNG) in economic and legal aspects of
petroleum exploration and development. This trained staff, together with the
exploration consultants, would assist decision-makers in determining how and
oa what basis (in terms of workx program and fiscal terms) acreage in the
country should be promoted.
40.      Role of the Association. IDA has already been involved in -che energy
sector in Guinea by its efforts in improving and rationalizing electric power
development through the First Power Project, the Water Resources Naster Plan
and feasibility studies on Konkoure(paras. 28 and 29).  The proposed project
would be IDA's first involvement in the petroleum sector.  The Association's
role would be to support the Government's effort to attract further private
investment in petroleum exploration in Guinea on a sound and stable basis.
IDA would finance the technical work needed to compile preliminary geological
information on the country. These data would be organized into a promotion
package to attract oil companies to undertake exploration. The exploration
consultants hired under the project would also assist in developing an overall
promotion strategy tailored to the geological potential of tvhe country and on
terms and conditions which would attract sound investment in exploration.
Training of Guinean government staff in technical, economic and legal aspects
of the oil industry would supplement this effort. IDA has also been instru-
mental in introducing the project to Petro Canada Internationwl Assistance
Corporation (PCIAC), which is considering providing parallel financing by
undertaking the proposed seismic program on the continental shelf.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      The proposed project was identified by IDA in March 1982 and
appraised in 1March 1983 after the preparatory study financed under an initial
PPF advance of USS220,000. A second PPF advance of USS780,000, approved in
July 1983, is financing a seismic test survey of the shallow water zone and
related technical assistance. 1/  Negotiations were held in Washington in
December 1983, and the Guinean delegation was led by Mr. I. Toure, Minister
of Mines and Geology. Key events and special conditions are presented in
Annex III. No staff appraisal report has been prepared.
42.      Project Objectives.  The project would provide technical and insti-
tutional assistance to the Ministry of Mines and Geology in support of well-
coaceived exploration promotion aimed at attracting foreign oil companies to
undertake exploration on available acreage in Guinea. This would be achieved
by reprocessing former seismic data and undertaking some new geological and
geophysical work to compile further data on the country; evaluating and
organizing that data so that it could be used to demonstrate the potential of
I/  These advances included US$180,000 for preparation of mineral
exploration promotion components which, because of timing differences,
would be included in a separate project scheduled for FY86.



- 13 -
the country to the oil industry; and providing institutional support, through
technical assistance and training.
43.      The technical assistance component for SEE would extend the period
for needed technical support and training for the electric power utility under
an existing contract signed under the First Power Project.
Project Description
44.      Seismic Surveys.  A program of seismic work, including reprocessing
of old seismic data, is proposed on two areas.  A seismic survey of about 600
km is planned over the shallow water zone in 1984. The grid (Map IBRD 17305)
would include six lines perpendicular to the coast, each line about 50 km long
with spacing between lines around 40 km.  Other than the preliminary test
survey, this would be the first geophysical work on the zone, and it would
represent a good first reconnaissance of the geology. It would provide data
on the thickness of sediments and some initial indications of any structural
or stratigraphic traps. At the same time, previous seismic lines shot by
SOGUIP in an area adjacent to the zone would be reprocessed to obtain data for
geological correlation. On the continental shelf, a broad reconnaissance of
about 3,000 km of seismic lines is planned for early 1985 on the southeastern
part of the shelf and slope adjacent to the SGH permit and extending into
deeper water. About 2,000 km would be shot on the southeastern shelf using a
reconaaissance grid of about 10 x 10 km; with the advantage of modern seismic,
this survey would elaborate and improve on previous seismic shot in this
area. In the deeper waters of the continental slope, 10 lines of around
100 km each would be shot, primarily to correlate geological trends on tne
shelf.  Execution of this program is dependent on approval by PCIAC to finance
the survey, and the actual size and scope of the survey would be determined by
PCIAC's technical staff.
45.      Field Studies and Geochemical Analysis.  A geological field survey of
1-2 months would be conducted in 1984 on the Bowe syncline, the sedimentary
basin onshore; collected samples would be sent to a laboratory for geochemical
analysis. The objective would be to determine whether there i3 any petroleum
potential in the sediments there and to study the somewhat younger sediments
along the coast; the latter would be useful in understanding the geology of
the shallow water area, as the same sediments may extend into that zone. If
the geochemical analysis shows promising results concerning source rock poten-
tial, a second survey to study the stratigraphy of the region in greater
detail would be planned for 1985.
46.      Technical Assistance to MMG.  Exploration consultants would interpret
the seismic work and the geological field studies, at the same time training
their counterpart Guinean staff over a three-year period. They would then
assist the XKG in organizing a promotional information package and in devel-
oping a strategy for promoting acreage to the oil industry tailored to the
geological conditions of the country. This would include advising an size of
acreage blocks, the prospectiveness of individual blocks, and the work commit-
ments and fiscal terms the Government should realistically seek. This work
program is estimated at 85 man-months. The consultants could eventually
assist the MMG in evaluating the results of any exploratory work. Finally,



- 14 -
this component would also include professional assistance in setting up
accounting and control procedures in the KMG in respect of oil exploration
activities (7.5 man-months).
47.      Technical, Economic and Legal Training.  In addition to on-the-job
experience, the project includes formal technical trainLng abroad in geology
and geophysics for HM!G staff (about 10 people) over a three-year period.
Seminars and courses on the economic and legal aspects of petroleum explora-
tion and development would also be provided, not only to staff in the MMG but
also to staff of other Ministries who share responsibility for attracting
sound private investment into the country. Three staff members would be
trained in oil industry accounting.
48.      Materials and Equipment.  The project includes supplies and ecuip-
ment, including trucks and vehicles, camping equipment and office supplies,
needed for the geological field surveys and technical work of the project.
49.      Technical Assistance for SNE. An extension of the technical assist-
ance contract to SNE for 7.5 months by a team of experts (14 persons) from
Hydro Quebec International to improve SNE's planning, maintenance, operational
and commercial capabilities (105 man-months in total). The qualified per-
sonnel of SNE, who are in great shortage, are being sent overseas for training
under the First Power Project. As a result, HQI personnel are operating and
manning several key positions. The extension of the HQI contract would allow
HQI staff more time to transfer know-how to their Guinean counterparts. In
addition a new system of customer billing and accounting will be implemented
in 1984 and the continued presence of HQI experts in the commercial department
will be needed.
Project Costs and Financing
50.      The project cost table and financing plan are in the project summary.
The total cost is estimated at US$12.0 million, of which US$11.6 million
represents foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 10% have been
included in the cost estimate. Price contingencies were computed at 1 p.a.
for local costs and for foreign costs at 85 for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% in
1985 and 6% thereafter. Local expenditures of US$400,000 will be financed by
the Government. The major component to be financed by the proposed IDA Credit
would be the shallow water seismic survey, estimated to cost US$3.0 million
(1983 prices) or about US$5,000 per line-km (including mobilization and pro-
cessing), plus reprocessing of old seismic lines (about US$300,000). The
shallow water seismic is more expensive than regular offshore seismic (about
US$1,000 per line-km) because a specialized boat with more sophisticated
geophysical and navigational instruments is used. The average cost of sup-
porting petroleum consulting services and expatriate experts (85 man-months)
is estimated at US$14,600 per man-month including travel, subsistence and
overhead. This amount is reasonable, taking into account the high level of
technical expertise required and prevailing fees in the petroleum industry.
All costs above are comparable with costs experienced in other petroleum
projects in West Africa. The man-month cost of consultants under the tech-
nical assistance component for SNE would be US$9,000, including trasql, sub-
sistence and overhead.



- 15 -
51.      Petro Canada International Assistance Corporation is expected to
finance on a grant basis and execute the seismic survey on the continental
shelf and slope. The cost is tentatively estimated at US$3.6 million,
including contingencies, but this will be better defined by PCIAC after it
completes its evaluation. Cross-effectiveness with the PCAIC agreement is not
reauired since the early start-up-of the PCAIC program is not essential for
the implementation of the IDA-financed components.
Implementation
52.      The project would be implemented by the hXG which would establish, by
the date of Credit effectiveness, a separate hydrocarbons unit to be in charge
of petroleum exploration activities (Section 3.02(b) of draft Development
Credit Agreement).  The unit would be staffed by a geologist and a geo-
phhysicist, who would report to a project coordinator, all of whom have already
been designated. Other geologists and geophysicists in trLe Ninistry would be
assigned to the unit as needed to work on seismic interpretation and field
work.  The coordinator would be responsible for expediting the proposed
project in Conakry, assisting the consultants and reporting to or liaising
with the Association. Terms of reference for the exploration consultants
during the project and a schedule of implementat-on,  ^lu--ding assignment of
!(G staff, have been agreed. The MKG would continue to exchange vie-s with !DA
on staffing during the course of the project. A schedule for training in the
first year was agreed at negotiations, and training in subsequent years would
be agreed on an annual basis (Section 3.06(a) of d-rat Development Credit
Agreement).
53.      The Government has agreed to exchange views with the Association as
it develops its promotion strategy during the course of the project (Section
3.05 of draft Develolient Credit Agreeaent). In addition, during the pro-
motion period the NEG may sell some of the data collected under the project in
an information package to interested oil companies. The proceeds of such
sales would be kept in a special account, to be opened by MNG at the Central
Bank, for use in further petroleum exploration (Section 3.05 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
54.      SNE would be the executing agency for its technical assistance com-
ponent, an extension of an existing contract for the services of 14 experts
seconded from HQI.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.      The Ministry of Nines and    '°Bogy intends to retain Petroconsultants,
the consultants w!-, conducted the prey. -atory study, as exploration consul-
tants during the project. Petroconsultants was selected in August 1982 under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Any additional exploration consul-
tants hired during the project, including consultants hired to conduct
seminars under the training component, would be employed according to IDA
guidelines. For the technical assistance under the power component, no new
appointment of consultants is needed. Award of the seismic contract for the
survey on the shallow offshore (US$3.0 million) would follow international
competitive bidding, in accordance with IDA guidelines. PCIAC would conduct



- 16 -
the seismic survey on the continental shelf and slope. All vehicles
(estimated total value of USS140,000) will be procured under limited
international tendering, in accordance with IDA guidelines. Other materials
and equipment would be procured by international and local comparative
shopping satisfactory to IDA.
56.      The proposed IDA credit would finance 100% of foreign exchange expen-
ditures for training, materials and equipment, and consulting services. All
expenditures would be fully documented.  Disbursement for the second geolo-
gical field survey would be conditional upon the Association's determination
of satisfactory results from the first survey (Section 3.07(b) of draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).  Should this second survey not be carried out, the
credit funds allocated would be cancelled.  Advances from the Project Pre-
paration Facility totalling US$1 million would be refunded from the proceeds
of the credit (Section 2.02(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1987.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
57.      NKG would keep separate project accounts, which would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the NKG and the Association.
iTn addition to the audit report, MNG would submit quarterly reports on imple-
mentation of the project in a format acceptable to the Association (Sections
3.08(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement). After completion of the
project, MKG would prepare a report on the execution of the project. (Section
3.08(C) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
58.      There are large areas of sedimentary basin in Guinea, particularly
offshore, which have not been thoroughly explored. The geological information
currently available suggests that these areas deserve further investigation.
Therefore, one benefit of this project would be the reprocessing, collection
and interpretation of data on acreage which is currently not being explored,
in order to promote these areas to international oil companies. Through
technical assistaiLe and legal/economic training, the project also seeks to
encourage the development of a well-conceived promotion strategy by the
Government of Guinea, in order to attract sound private investment into the
country under stable conditions. Institutional capabilities would also be
strengthened through the practical technical experience gained by Guineans
working with experienced consultants, as well as formal training. Neverthe-
less, the major potential benefit of this project is any exploration commit-
ments by oil companies that it helps to attract.
59.      A principal risk is that the eventual promotion of acreage does not
yield any industry interest. Certainly, the timing of such interest may be
delayed because the current softening of oil prices has discouraged explora-
tion. That an oil company is already exploring offshore, however, and that
there has been interest by companies in the past suggest that there may be
further industry in)erest in the future, if the additional data compiled under
this project are positive. Another risk is that the results of the geological
and geophysical work determine that the existing available acreage in the



- 17 -
country is not prospective for hydrocarbons. Taking these risks seems
justified on technical grounds from whet is known to date concerning the
geology of the country. Moreover, they are outweighed by the potential
benefits if hydrocarbons in commercial quantities are eventually discovered.
60.      Considerable improvement in the reliability of supply in Conakry has
already been noticed as a result of the First Power Project. Extending the
stay of the technical assistance team in Conakry by about eight months to the
end of 1985 would allow more time for the transfer of technical know-how to
the Guinean staff of SNE. There are no special technical risks associated
with this component.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Establishment
of the hydrocarbons unit in 1MG is a condition for effectiveness.
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMNEDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
December 28, 1983
Attachments



DLBES Curi AVAILADLE
- 18- -
ANNEA I
PAGE 1
T XSl  tz                                             _
- sori. ^L  DNSR5MAlI       S URER                __5 
x,soG         1970L!  urno.m        F        . ov SAHR        fIAs tSJ
A 1GECTor.sKiN                     245 :9       2459       29
Co  IM CAlLP  cm)                     100.0       140.0       300.0              256.6                    1167.9
(tIL0OCmS or COAL EQUIVALENT)       1..0                    83.0               79.s                     724.2
OPnLaT1o.           (TROVSAMDS)    30671. 0                                    L09. e m1 5128.5
GRAM A0LXNfl1 (2O9                              12.9 r285
POP OLPATION I       ofl                                    29.8
nop   ia s    7 Jtl    2QDQ   ( NIILL)                    29.8
STATIO"Wr LOPMATIlM (NML)                               2155
TEAR ST&TIOHAR? POP. 9.AoED
PEoATo   oln                        i2.5        16.6        22.1               29.5 16.5
I!ERAIKuz                          12.5 9?      90         l-                 94..1
PER SQ. m.                        69.7        8.         118.7.
P   ULATIo   AC E S INUCM U ( I)    42.0        42.5    *    3.9               45.0                      51.2
0-14 ns                          53.1        54.7        53.1               52.1                       2.8
15-81. ABOVE                       2.8         2.3         2.9                2.
65 ILsa ADME                                                                                            2
POPULATION GR    Rae                 2.2         2.8         6.0                6 2
TO3AL                               8.1        6.2                            6.2                        .3
JRS4754197. 27.6
CWUDE IIRXW RAZE (PER 91,005)       1.6.9       .6.4                           19 2                         2
loVE DEBRM RATE (PER TOo) 30.3                   4.0         3-1                35.
ROSS RCRCDWCTIO  PAM                       3.0    .3
AiPTORS. ARIUA1L (TRUOS)
USERS (Z OF IARRIED t0ltN)
95.7
1132 AM STto        VEIL CArTA      97.0       101.0        86.0               87.8
PER CAPIT  SUlK.?O 42 aOf 78.oZ85Lt5
CALO-RIES                                              1 9.  9                  897.1
".Oa          88~5.2                    56.0
RLOREES (ICT. Pr  U AS   )        426.0       182.0       38.0                                         17.6
OF   USI C GRA L P  BAU )          8.0         7.0 7(011 -8.1
ACESSD  (AGS  S-W 4)    R            49.6        43.3       38.1               257 4
47.4              ~~~~~51.9
UDLZE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.                                     12.7.                     117.6
LIE  XPC. A? IRtXTE (YEAR)                  165          1.2.8
T~~~~~~~0:                           186.i5  7  16 .8        8     312.5
INFAT  NOW.,.  RT   P   OS
(FM TWO)                        13.0         ..2J.,25.1
ACCSS TRo SAFE mAE                  12.10.)                 -o.of*             24.1                     l70.
RUR1 L 22230 °°                              880.0        0730 0           3177 56.8                 70.5
AD1155510S5 ER SOSY= ..    18.0
TOTAL                                ..                        __                                       12.3
URBAN2.0                                                                                          12181.6
ROURLATO  PE   '9 I   M2           9 00     32520.0     16630.01d          27 1.20.6                  2 9 .
PonL.XIER   FMRI PRSOR           32690.0      2300         24.90.07r         34.56.2                   29.
TOTAL                   1120.0       610.0       63O.03260-01203.2                           1075.1.
~~ ~~ noSPITAL NED    ~ ~ ~   ~    61.0380.6
TOMA                             210. 0      220.0       230.091           3177.5403
RURAL                           2200          8.0        70OJ32.
ADMISSIONS pER goSPITAL 80                      1.
ALVERACESZF  0   0152.
TORAL
AV  ER AGE   l O   Ot'    p 'RS U SI O
URBA 5S,.                                                            
TOTAL
ACCESS TO ECT. ( OF DuILLINGS)J
RURAL                                                          '-



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 19 -
ANNEX I
TABLE CA                                          PACL
CUINEA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SETT
GUINEA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIWT  AVERAGES) /a
HDST                     (POST RECENT ESTDMATE) /b
RECENT            LOU tNCSC             MIDDLE INC
1960-      1970f  ESTINAT-.                    A         AFRICA S. OF SANARA
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  30.0        33.0       33.0               63.9                     97.2
HALE                   44.0       4s.a        44.0              73.6                    103.1
FEMALE                 16.0       21.0        22.0              5t.6                     81.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  2.0        13.0       16.0               12.5                     17.2
MALE                    3.0       21.0        23.0              16.7                     23.5
FLMALE                  0.4        5.0         9.0               8.1                     14.Z
VOCATIONAL (T OF SECONDARY)        21.7         3.2        2.7                7.3                      5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIHARY                          66.0        44.0       36.0               46.4                     42.9
SECONDARY                        26.0        21.0       24.0/f             25.1                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE tE)             7.0         9.0/h     20.0              36.5                      37.1
PASSENGER CARS/TOUSAqDO POP         1.B         2.4        ..                 3.3                     18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       12.7        22.4       22.3              45.3                      97.8
Tv RECEMVERSITNOUSAID POP           ..          ..         1.1                2.2                     1B.6
NEBSPAPE (-DAtLY GENERA
IWTEREST) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSA!ND POPULATION           0.2         1.2        3.8                4.7                     18.2
CDI!A ANNUAL ATTENDANCEfCAPITA      ..          ..         ..                 t.0                      0.6
OAL LABR FORCE (TS)              1522.0      1940.0     2456.0
FEMALE CPVRCET)                  40.4        40.3       40.7               36.5                     36.t
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            88.0        85.0       82.0               76.9                     56.8
IIWUSTRY (PERCENT)                6.0         8.0       11.0                9.8                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TrTAL                            49.6        47.7       44.1               60.9                     37.0
HALE                             59.4        57.4       54.0               53.0                     47.1
rMALE                            39.9        38.1       34.8              28.9                      27.0
EOMNONIC DEPENDENY RATIO            0.9         1.0        1.1                1.2                      1.3
iNCU  DISIRII01O
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOE
RECEIVED lI
lIOIEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..
NIGHEST-20 Z OF NOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
LCwEST 201 OF NOMSENS.DS          ..          ..
LOWEST 402 OF NOUSEVNLXS          ..          ..
rows=  TAM     tRCS
ESTI(MTf) A8SOLUIE POVERTY INIORE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
IIR3AN                            ..          ..          ..              165.9                    534.2
RBAL                              ..          ..         ..                87.4                    255.9
ESTDtATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVYE. CUSS PER CAPITA)
URLAN                             ..          ..        70.0/f            100.8                    491.5
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..                64.6                    138.1
ESTIMATED Por. BELO AISOLUrE
POmtt      INCOME LEYEL (C)
URAN                                          ....39.5
RURAL                                         ..         ..                69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
.OoT APPLICABLE
N OT E S
a  Thr group averqes for each indlcator arm populati-welghtsd arithmtic mam. Coverqe of corntrIaa amo   the
Indicators depends on availabiltty of data ad  Is not uaIfom.
lb Unltes otherd se ooted. Data for 196D  refer to any year betwaen 1959 and 1961; Data for 19706 between 1969 and
1971; and data for -ost Racant Estiate- betuen 1979 and 1981.
/c Recant Cowernmant estimtes frm Administration c-rn  indicate a resident populatton excluddin morCuineane) of
4.53 mill. In 1977 and populatton growth rate of 2.7Z pm..; /d 1977: /e n10 report Ney, 1980 quotes total accass of
11-122. Howver, this does not match reprted aervice in lr ao nd ruWal areas; If 197t fB 1976; /h 1965.
C  Preaent Bank estlmte. Indlcte bigh4r ratlo of supply close to requirement, the Bank stimates point to a better
stardard sn  therm Is o evladnce of a sharp deterioration In autritional stsndarAa.
-ay 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 20 -                                               ~~~~ANNEX I
Irteet  Aithoaeb two data ira drate trle o-cras  gaoalLY Jadgod to  mad  -tflorttoto   jtrhbo atdaoati .1 w  he ntod tIot shop say flathe laiorletlaalt
geeporabis  o-a. .1o tin  lAck oraiiadttdotllto  ar                      FL.ai  coo  by tdiotSt eaIotr. . IS.ttltItg  tin dit.  Th. daa"R.        ,tataao   oltt
doocrtbo ardors of o.Ltd.&. todittatrt. a.. rd  rattojtli  Costeis oajor dlltorooa     btteo-             eiti.
lb. rooroo  oos  o.- Ii) tlbs  -io  oatty tr-p of tho eabj,oct otoitry asd (2) a coctry Staon atti .-saeht higher ...esoe1m  toga  in  the toetry stop of the
ochiartt._E,rsy  oaPtep  let "-Ith l-,ean   oil teptrwt  g .a.e whets  (tdda IS---  tbrth AtIre.  asd Htddlo t.ot  to tinios hesioa  of aiaga   eceorlias
mgrtoitlg).  Is tin roS_or   rep data th. a-Ers.. era ppoitas.  nights attoInotis mom  I.r omit ledcaltt cod .bat osIp thee tjarsy  f the Csoetrbm   10.I
omas ins data (or int Ldtt....er.  State the re-etrao of c.trteo ame  gi tt odlgater.tdapoda me the .-Ilt.ebLtty tf data mod to met a.1o.m, c.almat   tat he
to L.,.  o -araa    .1 am  toto-ta  to amether Th.. .. lboaaao   et   ey  ota  Ia. tapato  tin este of eta ldigetor ot .tIme -n  the osemry idd
SEA (tttsaad aIn.M)                                                                               frsfiopt  hsoe. Poee lg 1ttid by ...he  .-1 patc
tOtqT  t.  IOU data.                                                                           %:          -1-14t~            - Ptpoiette  diOtttld by oothr  r mlpatttrog
(07  antp. wott date           .   ifie   .I_     1  .L.f.tJ.                               -po.ttto  ...sota   S-tta,wit  r  oa  -Vpttm    ttl
Ilia ted isrA at..                                                                                                    J~~~~~~~ors  sdtoaldalo  b  her  osetvoaeoa aIiettlbd
COIP MR CePITA cinl- EPpet -ipit. aotim.t. atcrot tatE.ptlcoa.                                       ertlhi   Wgbotlt cod pri-vet  gMedeol oat spiottos heoptamimo
-i~lUi-L7~oewotlee -.tbo  -  (to1i taS.& Atlas  1979-113 heetal:                             rohboIt_ao  teetas-    Moolol  aa  sahi3oa   ose ttystffed
tOad, toys, ..s ash data,                                                                         by a  tat  t  pbpotal-am .  tbahlioh.o   procidlms prtttipmli omediel
rot  ito  _ao telao .t.ta  iopilmta. hemme. loIcI.   health a
assay OtaguPrTtam PRr  atetta- Aoml- ops .tes  .tmesptloo ofraetia                                   =idtta  tootor  tt pot.-aely staled by a pkyotatat Met bye AedloAl
pItlory tog   r.la   t              Pele  p.ttolo .  -eearl gs  rt hydra.-tu                      coototo,or    olot. ec.)  bih offer le-ptoltota--W..aio a-
and  ossheset oovetoty?  I kiagrso  f roi oqiraeo  set  opZtia                         proIdo a hoted "asc. atooles? f.lagltto.  for etitkellca  pwrpeoi
(9051. to tJo t[VW data.                                                                          an  he-pteelo  eIIaao alSo prlottWLS-tso        l hepiteto. osd tota
POPULArtgO OM VITAL STAMM$                                                                 -~~~~~~loptal. lga   or rtl h-optgalo atd tstget ad   etoroity tooler.
PIPrILalima  S  StyAl. STATtOTtCS                                         I~~.pet.lelo   IoyttaLo aro isitdod  Ley tsar tota.L
Totle.o1     sl. o-Ttoar (Elaoaa            M La tt(ty I: tOad, tuG,0 sot tOol                      tmio   i   tcIe   o      oa  sasot at  dtlaale    to a deair
d.t.,                                                                  ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie,a topitial  dattdd by the  -boer of SWdo
Utb.  tsetoto  (oreo  .19toal    -                                                                        EL                                'af'ta  t  oalootalt
--intounrlo; Ioa, tle,an tOOt         ..b  . data.                                     Wftl.a  oto  -. or   .I..ehi a(oorodo  -t Itasmeltltl       - tea . tn    atd. tIte
iW..  Fliile   i  ss  odso a.s221"   theirI7tttaitty ad  frtuity                             the in It d far oPictc?larpoi.
local  aaeotlt  Lito oa~Lotcoy at birth ItrooS.o, oath aawttYo  M,t                           of_to    e   O    .  l   ro              ae! ettiptod ooMelittlI
_vt tt         I.me   toal  As  rmit lIlt. -opCtleoY eiabILitotg at 77.4                      totlog .ropotisoLy.  bo-lttigo  -rId  ae-delt-ooo  mTtt.oieo  AM
Too . taprmot  for ftorttitty rats atme hero tlao  iol                                    eso-1padPao.M
aaottg  orbm  to rattlltyectia  to(tot  toi as seat rally                              Atr..a  oELattot  Coi tO of dttmal- "rgL. oth... o.  total -
oetletam:    of merotlty a.W  rotility Iroot  rot proJattit   ep-a.                           at total,  sle  an  tota  dootLIeg   oeotle
Stt-7os  ootolottoo - Cc    - tta-ry pepialtta  then to me att
aitt  tin hirth tC. "a --L to the teeh reto, as aloe Ch. ago                              tfttAII
elrtater  rato. eme-st.  Thia to arMore  oty at-c  tonality roto                            f13.ottr tUet
oa      ..ierale   of -mm   nptloe  ttoolf otialy.  Ma atLtoary                                Matiroo   l  mma   i   rmry(otm   stteo   1reetr
spsuaco  cla   -a osLt.ees  an the MMat  of the prelattd tiart-ot                               ptlaat  atboal-osa spotatlome: meolly botl,ato  atLUrm   aged al1
Utatar  athe pepLste   is 1  the ris  tOl. .AS  the Mat  of datim  of                           yarEattbo  ojot  for aE.  ditfartt Itoghe of primatry  eootot  a
Tetiit  rato -- he yrt(aooooot                                                                    1-          "IL..  r  .t.mMIit   t-eool  oate   eoolmm   myt1.  cobood tOOara
Tsa tstloor reaoctoo  o  rartot- he  os  ihm  totamty                    lo.Zto:Zyloea  eo t          or_shoe.I gi  ofcIal aes  ago.
tOO.lOl.a   Itadaa                                                                        WPaLle aseily  ;f12 -iI7 wor  of ego: aotto,estodt     rooto  or.`
tl;(ea  isn    toCc        ~       d      b.C.    ft.M.  L..d                           ryo_lsol7 ._rLtoo   sra"o"aittl      aiimlielelm
ftmInttit.-   LI-                                                                                                                   -       EVE Ia StreS--- tWrErot,-1   Otia  t-'  sn.  eko-aoCi  mlt  tLa. Lt4aaaEtt.- o  mn  pgrafI)ePoMt"idtu
he  ose) so Irt"t  (hS roc. sa'- tt  me0 .oco oof old-poet                                        l  or7    doserimotot of ~tavdery 1toitrel-me
seseata:ita_-    . In, as taut de.                                                            Psitohrrto-oin   o   oodn  ftP1_   , Mta  attaeoootdt
fttso!ttao    - tt rt .                     ;,AIotat  -cnl- -Itta  -rhl -aa  ot tetol ciLar-t   c  aro                    tostelo   ymseto tasther- to tin to-
yot-   pltmefrtta,   to-teE,-w ic, ea  a0-gtI.                                                  raPetia  la-oI..
toseltCrit  ~tor  ("cr-e) - -th. - stoI otoet  tao  at trlse                               MAlt t1 toore-  tooCeot    Utorto    ata CStW. -0 rod as o-to) 
pepeI-ico  tot Lota-wa  toW?-:?, as 1orn-.                                                      a pa Lroeti.1 oLtoal sellt poptltetm    sd 15 yoEto sod o
tri BIrch last Coot th_rdot - staol Ies ltint                E .....oeso  of mid
rier popLatim; too, twit, sot loSt data.                                                    otaStOlos
sesLetlso  tgOtA  1970. sOt 1051 dat.                                                           cr   eto    o    ttosa    som;atooiotao5hooe
Sao-otgasabo  of teeghftar    woac 51   hear loeltaye                                               lo
so--rLUrtonEdttit  pared if the ..-..rtsa  Pro-eot  z-ooottcfLc                            gino. Osrtoero (Se-tlaewsd ot"aaalto) -51ty, .1 Eoosro  o  o
f  Jtllt  rsoa  soit  fIto-pray siraotecig to (Oil. 1070. as                                 broiteet  togece p_ahllt Seetniee  atspttsto-; dtcgldoc
fSl-lmb.-Atotr.Mm   oaaed?-Mm   aht  tsrpooac                                                                to olet-t dat  for rasetI ysr mey tot he twarabl  aloe  -t
pr=ser                                                                                        Tv=torsooro  met thoe sd seseerbo    - It roEtolcorfo  brasct to
nat  i rhta-batomago   li-.  reiJt sis b htts-e ra  daot-s tot   cetoad to poar  eine _rgtatste   of To osla.   Is Oftoa.
totes  r tcatyradetlaa ea  sytt  tlO4'i.att      ge   rPar ..p...                          toL.ttota   Mootd prtaartly ta  -e,doi.  *--Ita   tam        :I to  omltot
ottltieraso   I   atroollt   rtatbo  omLsce ao  as                                          to in  dallf't  It. OP::.t 00 bot fast tEtooto
fedottoa   aada  om cthool         1b. Cmtto  tarot pr-Ie Egot (t.g.                  11          .Ihtm    dttsor  pEr Cait-  st  o 1 5-115I-- Was   or ahe.o~   of
anfto sat t   st  ot1lfd).Mict  pod-.t,a oF oah  -cttt1t                                       to.l.mLta..
host    eteL-  totr~ prte__e rat   mg ts;  04-b   1970. sot tOOl
tot oola ame? of alaaso(sorootor oostootol - foopato  ftoe              ~            Yiflfli   tot -s _thm,to   - to         zctalY -.tL- seom. lmtodt.g oso
ooor oqoealas  of  l tod stptta   eslebl  10 t-esty, ptr raytte per                 totao   a,aopoo   Iat           ."I.&le  hemolos,ettedsrts, Ot.. tooris
day.  MaIlbitt  soysllee ceoptim ta-1C pretato. toper   leo.                                    seel-tt   of all eta.  i1tttelo-  Ic conn   a-.Lc-o .ra met
inets .o thogo  L. otah.  51t aeplbo   o            -I.tLme  fas, rondo,                tauo-ble; 1160. t970 sod 1001 dat.
octtcaototta fe  pacle,slomiittrib-lt.                                                             ta.  Corot  -   m Lolbor form -  peoeotage of  tota  lins loom.
tOioas  ertstt-to  by coo hots 00 pa.elIotssl- mo. for  -001                            =tlotaatorct  - artast  Ia taleg. lerety. imeofta  sod
sast.ttgy .5 Inalth  .. tomeldoo  oiitldt-tol tacoootvr. body oeLghst.                            fIohI.,         -.R.ag  of total labor for,e;  Ot tism.   sme  tOI dat.
at  emehld bol: 104-45. bIt as  toss dat.                                                        odooataly   o zolSbL   co   eptmtgoo8oa   sarfts   O
-t supplY ortc   ettp    0  ooppy do tedtoto ,tr 00 olo.rt  trvrosc  ttat     rsl    l.sdtl.C-Ptitei_a a
RtOtros ttofr all -eittlo    -2,ab1.e4by Sloe W-Id.t for o1lal-                                 atiynootsaa.4mtca    et*tsO l  aint  or!                                t
allit-oco or hO erto at toal presols per toy aS  2? er-o    mImi ot                             srtootsa    of total, mete -  tame. pepelttas et al   go  yaostitoty.
pola  poe      if ohth Ito grit  oh-Id be atl_a  vratt.   Itn9 O. 1970, act tOC  data.  Io  aceboos -  tWn'o seerltpatl- ratr
1Atordinlar tathaof 75 grin  or rot  patLe   s  3 crfa ato   o-e   ttoatoro of she peLtata                                                      . 55  law time ttt.  A
of -ml-  protoi   soa              ..ag   o  the  -eId. rropood by yAP) to tin                  fas oaboee      fo  eatiote  oasroe
llatrt W-istd Fai    ry  till-hI, loOt and lO0 dtot.                                          troorolb hoseor stto. - htitl of pepsltis-  -ft.o Ii oS i stott
ftotoor  rrt  ool  rgoi    as tutor - .-Irotait repoly of foci                                    tin --t.I Loint frS-.
C~diot  asa -c  tos  to  Co thotsl - asso1 doaci  pot tioeao to                                 totoseo    aa.yo   both tord    e  Ld      oee                       by tmes-  S
aterop Ia rre.- olito  t  OIo"g group; "ot -t doorleplagprtt  iial2   owe.pora    Isro  aspoeoo  40 petroat o
t    detl..daI -ttir   tro  Itfc tabr_  tO. toys t aSlOt dat...oohts
(SaLTS                                                                  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ovtin Toety tutours
ml birth; toot. 1070 as bet data.                                        e~bteld he Iotorpratd vbth satod-rbto  -anot..
poo  atagopotttroso  lIre  lrcnt  Oll. 2,70 aSd lOll date                             amtospottl  1tet  I.ost totnt.Iootoa  inl t acaa  t
MmhrofpcoIeo,=  erwi-n, os reat) nish rooaomt            ""oet  so oaf                 afo"
intc   eoplytaeiso  rntt              at  at   at'-craI'        hoo                            tesoiot  ioat. Posro doi.,    bost15    e  r.arlso)l-trosattl-
-aiet    IL.) 00 pe-tctao  of tiJr ro-potlspoolalm . to  o                                   oreta  b=e .s of.ti  ttoty.  Cihot lost  lo datccd tro  1t roro
.trIm. are  a pbI. foositt  at staopat totals or sor  time 2W1 -tatr                            Itto  tth od)teseo  for ittaher toot ot tIrIng is o-ie  rm
tree a hem myb he   nodras an betg aithli reOcal. Ett.  f  it                                 to:bootas tos aI-t- solos AbtalW. PitttrW L0a .-tsI(srt)-ero
ti tayl  fothlog sin famIly's inotmae
Droe otttt =looa  (srrto    Nsaot ;t               J mt etosMa
=oa        9 tohto   opl  rtl togas  mas toa I    mooe  by`trrr
aLopool es  ortottge  of the1r ompette. pep.talti.  forrota dlape
my totte. abI olota -.c sotdepal ..lth ot School -tmoreef                                                                            &.ntae   Oto    a   Iolac
bes   --Ic sot mote-iter- by oitbt-heO     ysa orte  te.            o  pLt                                                     tro tctroayl A-1     st1 Pratts   bop~aro
pril.o to  soLta  tLetallorloc.                                                                                                                    may toot



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 21 -
CUINEA:  PREUIDENTS' REPORT ANNEX I
REVO6UTIONARV FPKPLE S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONONIC INDICATORS
CGOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1911 1/                                    eANWUAL RATE oF GROWTH CZ.constamt price)
US  NID.      2                 1973-77  1977-81  1973-81    1931  1981-85 Projected 1/
CUP at Nerket Prices                153S,   100.00                4.59     -0.22      2.16    -0.57       2.00
Cross Domesti  Invetmnt              233    33.32                -6.55      7.09      0.04    -9.10       5.00
Gross National Saviegn  21           160    30.39                -3.44      0.01     -1.70   -34.17
Current Account Nalence              -76    -4.93                21.25   -39.77    -4.92  -461.81
Exports oa  Cood .FS                 490    31.92                30.41      2.35     15.53    -6.06       1.00
Imports of Goods.NFS               -434   -28.28                 20.03      3.46     11.44    23.87
OUTPUT,LANOR FORCE AND PR0DUCTIVITYV1981
Value added                    Labor force                  VA per worker
uS S *In        S            thousands                          us 9 3
Agriculture                                    709    42.13                 2022    82.00                  351    51.35
Industry and Wining                            367    21.81                  271     10.99                1343   193.38
5ervices                                      607    36.07                  173      7.02                3445   503.36
Totalfaverage                                 1683   100.00                 2466   100.00                  677   100.00
COVECRMEWT FINANCE
Ceneral Government 3/
Billion Sylis                                           2 of CDP
1978      1979      1980      1981                1973      1979      1930      19SI
Current Receipts                   940       9.97    11.09    12.32                  31.34     32.02    34.54    34.95
Current Expenditure                6.64       6.63      7.74      7.21               22.49    21.96    24.11    20.43
Current Surplus                     2.76     3.34       3.35      5.11                9.35    11.06    10.43    14.50
Capital Expenditure 41             2.12       3.30      3.77      5.96                7.16    27.49    11.?.    16.91
Externel Assistance (net25/         1.35      1.15      0.97      1.80                4.58      3.82      3.01      5.12
Central Government
Billion sylis                                           2 of CDP
1973      1979      1980      19,1                1976      1979      1980      1981
Current Receipts                   9.10       9.73    10.44    11.52                 30.83    32.22    32.52    32.63
Currenc Expenditure                6.45       6.44      7.19      7.04               21.85    21.33    22.39    19.97
Current Surplus                    2.65       3.29      3.25      4.43               83.9      10.90    10.12    12.71
Capital Expenditure 4/              1.99     8.20       3.70      5.73                6.74    27.16    11.52    16.25
External Assistance (net)5I         1.35      1.15      0.97      1.80                4.58      3.82      3.01      5.12
NOUET.CREDIT AND PHICES
Rillion Sylim
Dec.1978 Dec.1979 Dec.1980 Dec.1983
Noney & quasi-noney                           8.95      8.90    12.97    17.17
RSak Credit to Public Sector                11.56       8.61    13.50    22.74
Dank Credit to Private Sector                0.70       0.76      1.21      1.02
Perenetages
1978      1977      1930      1931
money & quosi-money as 2 of CDP             30.32    29.47    40.39    4B.71
Ceneral Price Index (1981-100) 6/           83.70    65.50    91.90   100.00
Annuel 2 Changes in:
Cank Credit to Public Sector              -6.10   -25.60   114.90    22.90
lank Credit to Private Sector              1.20      7.50    60.30   -16.00



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
j                                                                                                    h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNEX I
PavgeX
1EVOLUTIONART PEOPLE'S REPUSLIC Of CUlNh2
TRADE PiTNENTS AND CAPITAL FLOUd
3ALANCE Of PAYNENTI 7/                                                  loECllAU1us EXPORTS (Average 1979-312
1973     ISiS      1930      1§911                                          I US             2 I
(Ug $ hilILo,)                          *euait.                        30J.7      63.4
!  Trporte of Coode.NE1321                             364       497       490             Alumina                        1238.      23.5
I Kports Of Coodc.Ny                         -514     -362      -394      -435              Diamonds                         1.7        .4
Remource Cop (deficit.-)                       14         2      103        55              Agricultural Comeodicile    12.3          2.7
Total                         430.1    100.0
I target Payments                            -43        46       -SI       -53
Workers' Remittances                           -6       -7         3        -9          EXTERNAL DUttSDeceeboer 31,19SI
Other 7Oetor Payenots (net)                   -33       33       -74       -85                                                   U1S aImI
N     Ft Tracneera                             33         9        17       16          pubiLc i Ptivate Debt Guerenteed
lelance on Curront AccOunt                    -37      -61       -13       -76              including Undisbursd                   1620
'~~~T:r,..t Account ~~~~~~~~Outstandingt & Disbursed                                                 1233.4
Direct Forein inveetmant                        6       23        34        36
Not NLLT  orromikn                                                                      DSbSISEPVICE RATIOS IOU 1931
Disburementu,Public foiro.wil              112       126       120       139                                                         S
Auorti..tionPubllc lorrouin*               -93      -109      -106      -109          Scheduled Sarvice Payment0
!oSubtot ol, bubic c Dorroviug              19        17        IZ        30             PubiLc & Private Debt Gusrantemd          23.0
I   Private  SectaI(met)                   -26       -29       -31       -26             Private Debt Non Guarenteed               1.3
Total sorrowinE                             -7       -12       -19         2             Totel Debt 0atndin* Dimbursad             33
Capital Grantu */                            . .      .
;  Otehr Capital(eet)                              *         3         3        10          Aetu-l Sewicez Paymante
Other Iteml nie. -t-19                                   4       -45       -42             Public & Private Debt Guaranteed          16.9
IncreaseLa i eservee 9/                      -53       -28       -3S       -70             Private Debt Non Guarentead               10.3
Total Debt outetaudLon &Disbursed        27.2
GCronrs teervea(end year)                      59        66       99        91t-o bin                                     30,1982)
|  ezt useerveeCeed year) 9/                -177      -203      -239      -256          JIhR/IDA LENlDIC (September 30,19S2)
Y..,  91                  -77      -20                                                                   UB 3 mIL
I  Fuol and elted Naterls                                                                                                 131D      IDA
Folaportel. .   .    .                                            99       110          outstanding & Disburaed            50.6      53.6
|of which: Petroleum                       .   .    .           99       110          Usdisburesd                         0.0      76.3
Exzportsl                                    0         0         00outstanding Including
Undiebureed              50.6    129.9
UATES OF CXCNAPCC 10/
1975     1976      1977      1973      1979      1980      1931      1982
SyliLtUS 3                   20.33    21.38    21.14    19.72    19.11    18.97    20.93    22.36
i/ Preliminary estLmtes
2/ Dafined as CGD  plus Current Accerot  Wlaesce
3/ Locol administrati0o *ot included
4/ Including capital transferg to,gnd ivesotment on behalf of,etate enterprises
5/ Diaburemente leeo scheduled auortination plu, increase io arrears
6/ CGP implicit deflator
71 Totals way not add due to roundins
l8 Included in not transfers
9/ DLecrepancies due to different exchange rates
10. Period geonetric averase.
Narch 1.1983



-  -  BEST COPY AVAILABLE
AM1 II
Page I of 2
STkTUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS INf GUINEA.
A. Statemet of Bnk Loas  and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1963)*
credit                                                                 AmoIt (leos Cancellations)
Number         ear      Borrower                 e                 Bank    IDA 1/ Undisbursed 21
Two loas and two Credits have been fully disbursed                  73.5    21.0
849-GUI       1979      Guinea              First Education                  8.0          0.25
870-G         1979      Gainea                irst Vater S9pply             12.5          5.00
and Sanitation
952-I         1980      Guinea              Rice Development                1C.4          5.32
953-GUI       1980      Guinea              Second Highway                  13.0          1.88
1063-GUI      1981      Gainea              Livestock                        2.1          0.26
Development
1085-GU       1981      Guinea              Power Projeet                   28.5          10.09
1234-GUI      1982      Guinea              Industrial Rehabi-              19.0          16.67
ltation and
Promotion
1341 -GUI 3/   1983     Guinea              Second Education                11.0          10.78
1382-GUI 3/   1983      Guinlea             Conakry Port                    13.0          12.79
Total  .                                             73.5   1385            63.04
.of vhich has been repaid                           26.4     0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       47.1   138.5
Total undisbursed                                      0.0  63.04         63.04
I/ Amoumt IDA6 Credits computed at the rate at the approval dates.
21  Aomnt IDA6 Credits computed at the September 30, 1983 rate of S1.05684 - SDR.
31  Not yet effective
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-24-
AM=EX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IPC Investments (as of September 30. 1983)
Fiscal Year  Obigor                       Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
)Societe Mixte,
)   Aredor Guin&e, S.A.        Diamond Nining       13.9              C
1983      )                                                                     (15.3
)  Aredor Hoilmdngs                                        1.4
Total Gross Commitments                         13.9    1.4        15.3
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                        13.9   1.4        15.3
Undisbursed Balance                             13.0    0.0       13.0



-25-
Annex III
Page 1 of 1
RETOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROWOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:      12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:     Ministry of Mines and Geology,
with the assistance of
consultants.
(c) Date of first Bank mission
to consider the project:           March 1982
[d) Appraisal:                           March 1983
(e) Negotiations completed:             December 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:     March 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
PFF advances totaling US$820,000 have been used to hire petroleum
consultants to assist in preparing the project and to conduct a seismic
test survey which is being used in planning the shallow water seismic
program under the project.
Sectio-n III: Special Conditions
1.  A condition of effectiveness would be the establishment of a separate
hydrocarbons unit in the MNG (para. 51).
2. MEG would agree with the Association on the program of training for
staff on an annual basis (para. 51).
*            3.   The Government would agree to exchange views with the Association as
it develops its promotion strategy during the course of the project
(para. 52).
4.   The proceeds from sales of data collected under the project would be
deposited in a special account and used for financing further
petroleum exploration activities. MKG would inform IDA that it has
opened an account at the Central Bank for this purpose prior to any
promotion effort (para. 52).
5.  Disbursement for the second geological field survey would be
conditional upon the Association's determination of satisfactory
results from the first survey (para. 55).



- 26 -                       Annex IV
Page 1 of 4
GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
THE GEOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
1.       The Bowe Basin.  This onshore basin appears as a large Paleozoic
syncline covering al area of around 8,000 km2, complicated by faults and
volcanies.  The Paleozoic sediments do not appear prospective because of
generally thin sedimentary cover and lack of cap rocks.  In the north, dipping
underneath the Paleozoic are Precambrian sediments, which from previous
descriptions by French and Soviet geologists show possible source rocks and
reservoirs.  Some areas of the world, especially the USSR, are known to
produce from sediments of the same age, although their very old age is
generally considered an unfavorable factor. These same sediments may extend
westward beneath younger sediments in the shallow water zone.
2.       §hallow Water  Zone.  Tne shallow water zone covers at least
10,000 km  up to depths of 30 meters between the coast and the northeastern
boundary of the present SGH concession. 1/ It appears, from a review of
existing data, that the basement outcrop in the area of Conakry is limited in
its extent and toward the northwest is covered by Paleozoic sediments which
are known at a few points along the coast. Several seismic profiles shot
adjacent to this area show a sedimentary section with locally good reflectors
underneath the Cretaceous unconformity. Though the continuity of these
reflectors is not good enough to allow an interpretation, evidence exists that
there may be a thick sedimentary section including Jurassic and Paleozoic
sediments. Interpretation of previous magnetic surveys and seismic lines show
that the Cretaceous unconformity could be located at a depth of 500-1,000 m
near the N.E. limit of the present SGH concession. The depth of the basement
rock could be around 3,000 m or deeper in the same area. As a consequence,
the thickness of the Jurassic/Paleozoic sediments in the shallow waters could
be around 2,000 m and perhaps more. Those sediments, when sufficiently thick,
are known as being prospective in several parts of Africa.
3.       No seismic has been shot in this area, and therefore it is impossible
to form an opinion about possible structures. Some previous seismic lines
shot adjacent to the area suggest the possibility of traps associated with the
angular unconformity underneath the base Cretaceous unconformity or against
faults. Because of the possibility of a thick sedimentary section with
potential structures, the shallow water zone merits further investigation.
4.       Zhe Offshore Continental Shelf and Slope.  This zone (an area of over
45,000 km ) includes the continental shelf in waters up to a depth of 200
meters and the continental slope which progressively dips from 200 to 4,000 m
and beyond. The area is characterized by a thickening of the Cretaceous and
11 A joint venture between the Government and Superior Oil/Union Texas
described at para. 35 of the maia text.



- 27 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 4
Tertiary sections. A well drilled by SOGUIP in 1977 (see para. 34 of the main
text), about 130 km from the coast, penetrated 1,300 m of Tertiary section and
bottomed at 3,348 a at the top of the Lover Cretaceous vithout siFnificant
shows. Source rock potential and porosities were found to be good in some
formations in the Eocene and Upper Cretaceous. Numerous intervals within the
Lover Cretaceous contained a high percentage of volcanic debris and appeared
to be deposited in a marine, but littoral to sub-littoral environment. A
profound unconformity marked the base of the Tertiary. Beflection quality
from seismic work within the Tertiary sediments was excellent. Below the
unconformity, in the Cretaceous, reflectors were less numerous and less
continuous.
5.       A large part of this area is presently held by SGH, which plans to
drill a deep well. According to its agreement, the company will relinquish
50% of this acreage in 1985, however. The southeastern part of this area is
still open (around 10,000 iW), and some of it has been covered by old
reconnaissance seismic surveys (by Shell and SOGUIP). A better evaluation of
the potential of this area will be possible when the southeastern part has
been evaluated by modern seismic and after drilling of the SGH well. It
appears, however, that sedimentary formations exist which are comparable to
neighboring countries; they could prove potentially attractive, if the proper
structural and stratigraphic conditions exist.
.



- 28 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 4
Glossary of Geologic Terms
Tertiary  (Cenozoic):         The system of sedimentary rocks occupying
(I million to 63             the more recent periods of the geologic
million years ago)          time scale, comprising the Paleocene, Eocene,
Oligocene, Miocene, and Pliocene. The Cenozoic
system is typified by the development of mammala
and primates and flora which are precursors of
the present system. It underlies the Quartenary
period (less than I million years ago).
Mesozoic:                     The system of sedimentary rocks occupying
(63 million to 230            the middle ages of the geologic time scale,
million years ago)           comprising the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous
periods; the Mesozoic system is typified by a
reptilian fauna and a coniferous flora which
overlies the older Palezoic system and underlies
the Cenozoic era.
Paleozoic:                    The system of sedimentary rocks occupying
(230 to 600 million           the early ages of the geologic time scale
years ago)                    comprising the Cambrian, Ordovician, Devonian,
Silurian, Carboniferous and Permian periods; the
Paleozoic system is typified by an invertebrate
fauna but witnessed the evolution of fish and,
near the shore, primitive reptiles as well and a
flora evolving through algae, ferns and primative
conifers; underlies the Mesozoic era.
Precambrian:                  A system consisting primarily of igneous,
(Over 600 million             crystalline rocks (non-sedimentary) and
years ago)                   occasionally sedimentary rocks deficient in
fossils because of their age (preceding most
life forms); underlies the Paleozoic era.
Basement rock:                Refers generally to igneous rock of the
Precambrian era or older.
Reservoir Rock:               Those rock formations which have retained, after
burial, sufficient porosity and permeability
(pore space connections) to contain fluids--
either oil, gas or water.
Source Rock:                  Those sedimentary rock formations which are
either known or thought to have retained organic
debris, which under conditions of burial (heat,
pressure and time) are transformed into either
oil or gas; usually shale (compacted clay) or
fine-grained carbonate (limestone).



- 29 -
Annex IT
Page 4 of 4
Structure:                   Used to indicate a geometric configuration in the
sedimentary beds which can lead to trapping of
the oil; anticlines and synclines are such
structures.
Syncline:                    A structural downfold where sedimentary beds dip
down toward the center.
Trap:                         A barrier to the migration of fluids through a
reservoir rock; may result from structural
movement or lateral change in reservoir
characteristics.
Unconformity:                A divergence in the sequence of sedimentary
rocks, caused by structural movement and/or a
change in the deposition of overlying sediments,
or involving a hiatus in deposition and a period
of erosion of the underlying sediments.



- 30 -
Annex V
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
Test Seismic Survey                               October 1983
Agreement on Training Program for 1984            December 1983
Establishment of Hydrocarbons Unit                January 1984
Completion of Processing and Interpre-
tation of Test Seismic                          January 1984
Extension of Contract for Exploration
Consultants                                     March 1984
Reprocessing of Old Seismic Data                  April 1984
Seminar on Legal and Economic Aspects
of the Petroleum Industry                       Nay 1984
Commencement of Shallow Water Seismic
Program                                         September 1984
First Geological Field Survey                     October/November 1984
Commencement of Seismic Program on
Continental Shelf                               January 1985
Decision regarding Second Geological
Field Survey                                    April 1985
Completion of Interpretation of Shallow
Water Seismic                                     April 1985
Completion of Interpretation of Seismic
on Continental Shelf                            July 1985
Second Geological Field Survey                    October 1985
Employment of Accounting Consultants              October 1985
Presentation of Initial Promotion Report
by Consultants                                  January 1986
Implementation of Promotion Strategy              January-December 1986
Final Report of Consultants                       December 1986
Closing Date                                      June 30, 1987



SENEGAL  '                                  ___________
THE        _          S                         E,_                                        __ N ___ E __ G _ _A _ _L _ ___ __ - __ I h - ___ __
GBIA          ,x                    MALI
MALI               _____ 
GUINEA              _ '.                             __
| U    /       G U I NEA A;                     -   -      -                                                          .  * .;
Canakry                      S                                     -
Area of map    -LEONE -9'___________
5IVORY _______ __
\,  ~X   COAST            7X_ 
..  .. .     .   .  ..
\                                 r-SOGUIP----   I
Gs   I                       /       I 
I                 .4t7-8]GU2-BI
KILOMETERS 0               50               100            150                                      -
MILES 0                        S0                       1o                                                 'SOGUIP-_J
I                                                  ly~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                      1d



IBRD 17305
-         'iv;;; ;;;1', -., 'AUGUS  1963
_   ,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ .  .  . .  ...  . ,  |  ,    ;.     . .             . . .     . . . .
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . . .: .: . . .<. ., i5./ . . 1
_-s; .                                                                                            bs ' ,J, I ............
.  .     . ............2
_'nkoMA GOGIA                                                                                                      L INE
Tougirt   me basement
::--:: :-:-::::: -~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                  :.:.:.:.:............    :.-:-::(3............ ..:.:::REULI.O.UIE
:::::::::::*:.: :.: ....... :.               .: ....... -.-..-.EOL                                       GICA.OU                LIN
..  .....   ;.  .    *),_^s.........s
<-  -- t                   OF GUISGHpermt^ area
T::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SG I'  fome  permi- - -t areaf  -°  
2~~~~~~~~~~e~                                               .- ....                                                 -------------.--   *.--:::
.:.   .  1ti:difl    \    :             W       :.-.;                  .: P*rNaional caitals
_ ,,, - @ @ ~~~. P .  |     1 
.......   ...   .........-... -. *                                m
- :,,........:.-......                                        ......,:::.:::::      :       ::: -----------
.. . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .              .~ ~~~~~~~~ ...........w                    hO   s'  n     m   sa s   t e.   t w  i do'
iNAKRY,~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t-   =                                               It \wu ;  ,;  SteMBtisdice progrSameo Cshallowt sane
'-~~~~~~~~~~                              i -~  sk::::is.::  SGaH  perma itarse awSnttet uihD
..................                                                        REPUBLIC:::  S OGUP' GUINreria re
.  -. r; .  :   . R-....      ........4SGIwl
- ..............t                   ...   .  .                                                   oF   GUInEA
......- ...)   -                                                     , .Itentoa  budre
...................= _= :::: .;i,           . ;,;.;:
fre etow.....                       -rtcos  Cenozoi;;-c 0=g
-   :  N' ' -' ' -- -  R    i,.5 I  ' il | '| ' '' l  V   <sSse PoleoXzo'IC                       1 _-_ 
..r.    ..........



