*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
Donmm_t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
R.eaie No. 10239
Report No. 10239-GUI Type: (PCR)
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 / T9 073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1438-GUI)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OI ACROUTKS
BSlCIP         Bureau d'Etudes Induutirelles at de Cooperation de
l'Institut du P&trole
CQL            Coopers and Lybrand
DH             Direction of Hydrocarbons
ENSPM          scole Nationale Sup6rieure don P6troles et Moteurs
a00o           Ceophysical Company of Norway AS
GKOQUEST       American Geophysical company
HQI            Hydro Quebec International
HYDROVENTE     a Government-owned sister agency of ONAH
KINBK          Minist6re de 1'Energie et Konkour6
mmG            Minist6re des Mines et G6ologie
INREE          MinistAre des Ressources Naturelles, de 1'Energie et de
1'Environnement
HSGB           West African Regional Geological Study
ONAN           Office National des Hydrocarbones
PCIAC          Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation
PSA            Petroconsultants S.A.
SEE            Secr6tariat d'Etat A 1'Energie
SGH            SociSt5 Guin6enne des Hydrocarbures
SNE            Soci6te Nationale d'Electricit6
SGP/SOQUIP     Soci6t4 Guineenne des P6troles



FOR OFCIA  USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oke of DrectotCGwal
Opwatbrn Evaiukmn
December 27, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Guinea
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
(Credit 1438-GUI)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Guinea - Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit
1438-GUI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been miade by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
._,_,.I  O. @11133
!TDs 143*-U
PROJECT COMPLETIZON RP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag No.
PREFACz .. ........................ * .       .iii,
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..#  .  *****e*******................                   iv
PART I    PROJECT RE W  FROM BANR  PERSPECTIVE
L.   PROJECT IDENTITY .....         ........ ............ .......                 1
B.   BACKGROUND ...            ................ ...............*....**           1
C.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ......................                   2
- Project Objectives ...               ....................          2
- Project Description ..............................                 2
- Project Design and Organization ...................    3
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .. ... ..................  4
- Seismic Studies          .................. .....                  4
- Geological Field Surveys .           ..........................  S
- Petroleum Legislation .............................. .5
- Oil Companies' Status            .................... .            6
- Petroleum Exploration Promotion ...................            .   6
- MSGB - West Africa Geological Regional Study               .......  7
- Institut ions ........          ...............................  7
- Training  ......................                              .. 8
- DR Building .......................... ..  9
- Audit of the Credit Accounts .....             ..................  9
- Disbursements ..           ....................................  9
- Procurement .......... ... .. ...  ........................ 10
E.  PROJECT RESULTS - GENERAL COMiENTS .......................   10
F.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  . ..................................   11
G.  PERFORHANCE OF THE PARTIES INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT .......   11
H.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION and DATA  .....   .  ......................   12
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  INTRODUCTION ......            .....................................    13
B. BACKGROtND .13
C. PERFORMANCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
1438-GUI    . .14
- PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER (GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA)                    14
- PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK ......                                    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation



Table of Contents (Cont.)
D. Z VALUATION OF THE QUALITY OF WORLD BANK/REPUBLIC
GUINEA RELATIONS AND ITS IMPACT ON PROJECT
')NPLEMWNTATION ......... .      ......... ...  ..........  .               15
Z.   CONCLUSION .*.*  ................................                            17
PART III STATI TICAL PT
1.   Project Time-table ................             ............                18
2.   Credit Cumulative Disbursements  ..              .............              18
3.   Project Implementation                  ....... *O..                        19
4.   Project Costs and Financing .................            ..                 20
5.   Project Resulte ......           .........................                  21
A.    Direct Benefits .........................                             21
B.    Economic Impact ...... . .  ..............................            21
C.    Financial Impact ........................                             21
D.    Studies .................................                             22
6.   Status of Credit Covenants ...................                              22
7.   Use of Dank Resources ......              ...................               23
A.    Staff Inputs            .     .     ..............                    23
B. Missions......                                                           23



PROJCT COMPLETION REORT
REPUBLIC OF GUIE
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1438-GUI)
PIUFACE
This in the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project in Guinea, for which Credit 1438-GUI in an
amount of SDR 7.7 million was approved on January 17, 1984. The Credit
was closed on June 30, 1990, three years behind schedule. An
undisbursed amount of MDR 0.004 million was canceled and the last
disburement was on September 10, 1990.
The-PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy operations
Division of the Technical Department (AFTIE), Africa Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in July 1990, and is based, inter
alia, on the President's report, the Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondance between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF G ' NEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1438-GUI)
9kis~LAirn 
gbiectives
1.   In the early 1980s, as today, oil imports were a serious strain on
Guinea' balance of payments. In spite of the efforts made by the
Soci6t6 Guin6enne des Hydrocarbures (SGH), a joint venture formed
between the Government and the American oil company, Superior Oil, no
hydrocarbons had been discovered in the country. The Government was
interested in evaluating the hydrocarbon potential of the sedimentary
basins of the country, and the Association agreed to grant a new credit
to Guinea to that effect.
2.   The project consisted of: (a) an exploration promotion component
including offshore seismic operations (in shallow water and on the
continental slope and shelf) and geological field surveys in the onshore
Bowe basin; (b) technical assistance to the Ministry of Mines and
Geology (MHG); and (c) legal and economic training for MMG staff.
Furthermore, following a Government request, a power-related component
was included in the project, aimed at preparing a second Power Project.
3.  The total project cost was estimated at USS12.0 million, with a
foreign cost component of US$11.6 million. A US$3.6 million amount was
granted by Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation (PCIAC) to
finance, in parallel, the seismic program on the continental slope and
shelf.
Im_lementation Exoerience
4.   A preliminary seismic test in the offshore area was carried out in
the offshore area. It was found that the sediments in the shallow water
zone were not thick enough to warrant the cost of any further seismic
program. In March 1986, a seismic survey (1,546 km) was carried out in
the shelf area on a speculative basis (i.e. partly financed by the
contractor). This survey did not produce any encouraging results.
5.  Since the seismic structural results were not encouraging, a
seismic-stratigraphy study was carried out on 5,000 km of seismic
profiles. A few stratigraphic exploration targets were suggested, but
none was clearly defined. It is considered that further seismic
reprocessing would be necessary to that effect.
6.   Two field surveys were carried out (March/April 1985 and March
1986) and two bore holes were drilled (March 1987 and January 1989 in
the Bowe basin in order to collect source rock samples from Silurian
outcrops (paragraphs 22 to 23 below). All the results pointed to the
overmaturity of the Paleozoic source rocks. In line with the project
description, no further detailed survey was carried out.
7.   In mid-1984, the promoting company Anglo-Suisse presented an offer
covering a large exploration acreage, which included unusually light
work commitments. This was turned down by the Government upon the
recommendation of its exploration consultants (paragraph 32 below).



- iii -
8.   A French firm was contracted in February 1985 to draft a petroleum
code (paragraph 25 to 28 below). This law (enacted September 23, 1986)
is a production-sharing contract, with no payment of royalties or
bonuses, and the inclusion of a possible Government equity participation
in came of discovery.
hesults
9.   The exploration consultants prepared a geological report
incorporating previous and new data (paragraph 33 amd 34 below). The
conclusions of this report, together with the new petroleum legislation,
were presented to the oil industry during the course of two promotional
meetings, which were held in Houston (June 16, 1987) and London (June
23, 1987). No proposal for an exploration contract was presented by any
oil company.
10. The Project was not successful to the extent that the promotion
effort did not yield any oil industry interest. However, the project
resulted in: (a) enhanced scientific knowledge regarding the geological
charact4ristics of the Guinea offshore basin; and (b) the strengthening
of the technical -^-pertise of the Hydrocarbons Directorate (DH) staff.
11. During the implementation of the project, the Association agreed to
a request from the Government to finance under the Credit an
institutional study of the petroleum subsector (see uaraaraoh 40 blow).
The selected consultant's recommendations included: (a) the preparation
of a regulatory framework for petroleum activities in the country; (b)
concentration of the technical control of these activities within the
DH; and (c) an appropriate training program to enable the DH staff to
fulfill this task. The consultant prepared the required regulations.
These should be streamlined to be adapted to local conditions.
Sugtainabilitv
12. The experience acquired by the DH staff in petroleum exploration
may not survive long in case of a lasting absence of oil companies,
activities. However, the preparation of a regulary framework for
petroleum activities in the country, and the initial training received
by the DH staff in petroleum products distribution should be the basis
of a permanent and beneficial DH's role in the country.
Lessons learned
13. The lack of success of the Government in its attempts to attract
oil companies to explore the country's sedimentary basins results from
the lack of well-supported exploration targets for prospective investors
("conceptual exploration plays" in petroleum industry terms). In order
to attenuate the oil industry's negative evaluation of the hydrocarbon
potential of the country, it would be necessary to develop such plays,
through the implementation of a limited exploration program including
mainly seismic data reprocessing (i.e. processing field-acquired seismic
tapes through appropriate new technical modelling).
14. In mid-1985, four countries in West Africa (Mauritania, Senegal,
Gambia and Guinea Bissau) were preparing a regional geological study
including each country's western sedimentary basin. This regional study
was known under the acronym NSGB. In November 1985, the Ministry
requested the extension of the MSGB regional study to the Guinean
offshore sedimentary basin. The NSGB extended study was completed in
1987. However, due to time constraints, and to the involvement of three
different consultants, the study was more a juxtaposition of local
studies than an actual regional study. Only five reports were sold to
the oil industry. The main lessons drawn are that a regional study
should be: (a) conceived as such, and not be the result of the initial



- iv -
implae ntation of local studies, subsequently integrated; and (b) under
the responsibility of only one team of consultants from the start.
15. The implementation of the project under review illustrates the
futility, indeed the possible harm, of including acquisition of fresh
hard data, such as extensive seismic surve a or drilling of exploration
wells, in a promotional project. These exploration tools aim at
defining prospects, which oil companies rightly see as their role; it is
only necessary to define well-supported conceptual plays in order to
attract the oil industry in the exploration of a given basin. Work
programs to develop these exploration plays may include utilization of
light exploration methods such as reprocessing of existing seismic data,
or satellite imagery techniques.
16. As mentioned in paragraph 7 above, the DH's exploration consultants
recommended to the Government, with the Bank's agreement, that it not
sign a contract with Anglo Suisse. in retrospect, it might have been
wiser to encourage the company to negotiate a contract on one portion of
the required acreage. The promotional efforts of Anglo Suisse could
have been linked to the promotional program carried out by DHi's
exploration consultants. Promotional companies should not necessarily
be dismissed out of hand. If such a company does not have an
established reputation in the oil indnistry, it is advisable - as a last
resort - to secure its cooperation under acceptable conditions, rather
than eliminating it a prXori from the scene.
17. No governmental unit in the country other than the DH has the
authority to control activities in the petroleum subsector. As the DH
does not yet have the appropriate competence to fulfill this task, it
still requires technical assistance and training. More generally, the
Government needs further technical and financial assistance to: (a)
adapt DH staff to the petroleum products supply and distribution
subsectors; (b) attract oil companies by developing new exploration
targets in the Guinean basin, in an environment increasingly marked by a
relative worldwide scarcity of exploration acreage; and (c) evaluate the
geothermal potential of the country.



PROJECT COMPLEXION REPORT
REPUBLIC Oz GUI
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1438-GUI)
PART It PROECT REVINW PFROMI SANM' pRSPECTI-VE
A.  Poimect Idegtitv
Name               Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
Credit No.:        Credlt 1438-GUI
RVP Unit           Africa Region Country Department I
Country            Guinea
Sector             Energy
Subsector s        Petroleum
1.   Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea's economic
performance declined from independence in 1958 until about 1973-74.
When the project started, Guinea, with a per capita income of about
US$300, was among the least developed countries.
2.  Guinea's economic development was hampered by structural problems.
The economy was stagnating and the balance of payments was in chronic
deficit. The available foreign exchange could not satisfy domestic
consumption, service external debt, and finance the capital and
recurrent costs of existing and new projects.
3.   Within this depressed environment, oil imports were a serious
strain on the economy. Oil products supplied, in the early 1980s, 34%
of the energy used (the remainder coming from fuelwood). Oil imports in
1980 totaled about 414,000 tons, for an aggregate value of US$52
million, representing about 28% of annual foreign exchange earnings
Furthermore, there was considerable suppressed demand, a result of the
limited availability of foreign exchange to pay for more oil imports.
4.   No oil or gas had been produced in any of the three sedimentary
areas of the country, which are: (a) the onshore Bowe basin (8,000 km2);
(b) the shallow offshore zone along the coast (10,000 km2); and (c) the
continental shelf and slope (over 45,000 km2) in progressively deeper
water, from 200 to 4,000 m.
5.  The three basins were virtually unexplored.  Three companies had
conducted limited exploration programs in the country's offshore. Shell
carried out airmag and reconnaissance seismic studies in 1969/1970.
Between 1974 and 1979, SOQUIP, a joint venture between the Government
and a consortium of foreign companies (Buttes, CFP, Naftagas and Japan
Guinea Petroleum Co), conducted seismic work of 3,500 line-km and
drilled one well, which was dry.
6.   In January 1980, the Government and Union Texas Petroleum formed
the Soci6te Guin6enne des Hydrocarbures (SGH), an equal participation
joint venture, to explore a permit area of 36,000 km2. In August 1980,
Superior Oil bought 75% of the Union Texas share in SGH and took on the
role of operator. Superior conducted a detailed seismic survey (3,600
line-km) and planned to drill a well, but the drilling was delayed by an
offshore border disagreement with Guinea Bissau.



- 2 -
7.   The Minintry of Mines and Geology (MMO) (and,since 1984, its
petroleum division, the newly created Hydrocarbons Directorate (DR)),
was responsible for petroleum exploration. It is also responsible for
the country's bauxite production and development of other mineral
resources. The power subsector was under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Energy and Konkour& (MINEK), which as such controlled the
Soci6t& Nationale d "'eutricit& (SNE). The staff of the MMG was mainly
trained in mineral  -ogy and mining engineering.  However, a few
specialists had rL ,-d university degrees in petroleum geology and
acquired some experxence in petroleum exploration activities by
following the exploration activitios carried out in the country by
international oil companies. The technical capabilities of the DR
nevertheless needed strengthening.
S.  The distribution of oil products was conducted, under the Ministry
of Internal Comerce, by the Office National des Hydrocarbones (ONAH),
a monopoly public enterprise created after the natioralization of
existing petroleum products distributors. All service stations in the
country were Government-owned and run by a sister agency of ONAH,
Hydrov-nte.
9.   The NMH was interested in evaluating all the areas of the country
with hydrocarbon potential in order to attract additional oil companies,
in addition to SGH, to conduct oil exploration in the country. Sinc3
relinquishment would occur under the SGH agreement, additional acreage
would be available for promotion.   The Government therefore requested
the Association's assistance for the implementation of this promotional
effort.
C.   Project Obiectives and Doscriotion
Proiect objectives
10. The project was conceived to provide technical and institutional
assistance to the MMG in support of petroleum exploration promotion
aimed at attracting the oil industry to conduct exploration activities
in the country's free acreage. This was to be achieved through the
acquisition of new seismic data and the integration of the results with
previously existing data, in order to demonstrate the hydrocarbon
potential of the country to the oil industry. The project aimed also at
providing institutional support, through technical assistance and
training.
11. A first Power project aimed at rehabilitating the Conakry power
system, and provided technical assistance and training for the SNE
entitled Guinea - First Power Project, Credit 1085-GUI (Project
Completion Report dated May 6, 1988) was carried out between February
1981 and October 1986. Under this credit, a contract for the technical
assistance component was signed between Hydro Quebec International
(HQI), of Canada, and MINEK to provide SNE with 14 experts in
engineering, financial and training fields. This contract was to expire
in May 1985, but it was already clear that technical support would be
needed for an additional 7.5 months to complete the transfer of know-how
to the SNE staff. The Government requested that the financing of the
contract to the end of December 1983 be included in the petroleum
project. An amount of SDR 970,000 was included to that effect in the
project under review.
Proiect Descrip_tion
12. The project was organized around three main components: (a)
preparation and implementation of a petroleum exploration promotion; (b)



-3-
training of MM4 stafft and (c) reinforcemnt of SNE professional
capability:
(a) The exploration component consisted of the following parts:
(L)     Exacution of seismic surveys comprising
approximately 600 line-km in the shallow water zone,
and approximately 3,000 line-km in the continental
shelf and slope;
(ii)     execution of two geological field surveys in the
onshore Bowe basin;
(iii)     organisation of data collected into an information
package for promotional purposes;
(iv)     development of a strategy for promotion of acreage
to the oil industry under appropriate commitments
and fiscal terms;
(v)     promotion of acreage to the oil industry; and
(vi)     negotiation of petroleum exploration and production
agreements;
(b) The training program comprised:
gi)     on-the-job training of MKG staff in all aspects of
petroleum exploration and production; and
(ii)     establishment and implementation of a program for
training outside Guinea, including all petroleum
exploration/development-related matters; and
(c) The Power component included strengthening SNE's planning,
maintenance, operational, and accounting and commercial
capability through the provision of about 105 man-months of
consultant services.
Proiect Desicn and organization
13. Within the framework of the exploration promotion policy adopted
(i.e. including acquisition of hard data), the project was well
prepared. Three missions to Conakry paved the way for the project's
appraisal. The conceptual foundation of the project was clear and well
understood by both the Bank and the Ministry's staff (except for some
delicate technical issues difficult for laymen to grasp). The Minister
was, however, initially opposed to preparing petroleum legislation, on
the grounds that drafting a now petroleum law was a Government
prerogative. However, following the policy changes which occurred after
the death of the first President of the Republic of Guinea, the
conceptual basis of the project was fully understood by the new Minister
and objections disappeared. The MHG was the executing agency for the
project.
14.  Through a PPF advance amounting to US$220,000, MMG was able to
contract an exploration consulting firm to review the existing
exploration data on the country, and define a petroleum exploration
promotion policy. The consultants concluded that, since the country was
largely unexplored, substantially more exploration work was needed to
evaluate it fully.
15. The consultants recommended taking advantage of the presence of a
seismic boat, belonging to the American company Digicon, which was



- 4 -
15. The consultants recomme nded taking advantage of the presence of a
seiamic boat, belonging to the American company Digicon, which was
operating in the neighboring waters of Guinea Bissau (under the
financing of Bank's Credit Cr. 1334-GUB), to carry out an initial
reconnaissance survey (165 km) of the shallow offshore. This test would
provide information needed to prepare a more detailed seismic program in
the same area (600 km) to be financed under the project. The Government
requested an increase in the PPF to finance this seismic test program.
On April 21, 1983, the Association agr-ed to this request, and the PPF
was increased to an aggregate amount of US$1 million.
16. The test seismic lines were acquired in September 1983, and
processed during the last quarter of 1983. The interpretation showed
that, contrary to initial expectations, the geological section which
underlies the cretaceous section is not thick enough in the test area to
offer any attractive potential. This exploration finding resulted in
the first modification of the project and in the end the Bank did not
finance any further seismic surveys in the shallow water area.
D  PROWECT IHPLh3WIgAOIoN
17. The first phase of the project consisted in acquiring new field
data, both in the offshore area and in the BOWE basin. These new data
were to be subsequently integrated into the regional study to be
presented during the promotional seminars.
Seismic Studies
18. Through a PPf advance of an aggregate amount of US$1 million, the
Government was able to hire an exploration consulting firm to review the
available exploration data, and, on the basin of the consultants'
conclusions and recommendations, to finance the execution of a seismic
test survey (160 km) in offshore shallow water.
19. The test in the offshore shallow water area was carried out in
September 1983, and data acquired was processed by March 1984. It was
found that sediments in the shallow water zone were not thick enough to
warrant the cost of a full shallow water seismic program. Since their
seismic boat was expected to undertake its program in December 1984,
PCIAC agreed to include in its program further reconnaissance lines in
the shallow water zone, in order to evaluate whether any future seismic
program in this zone was justified.
20. According to PCIAC, the results of the seismic program were rather
encouraging. However, the Bank cautioned the Hydrocarbon Directorate
(DH) against a too optimistic interpretation of the results, because of
the lack of: (a) an adequate sedimentary section in shallow water; (b)
structural traps within the mesozoic geological section; and (c)
significant data about the sediments underlaying the mesozoic geological
section in the basin. However, following a recommendation from the
Ministry's exploration consultant, a new seismic survey was carried out
by the Government to complement the lines shot by PCIAC. This survey
(1,546 km) was carried out in March 1986 on a semi-speculative basis
(i.e. partly financed by the contractor). This survey did not produce
any encouraging results.
21. Since the seismic results obtained did not result in any convincing
structural lead, the focus was shifted to more subtle stratigraphic
traps, and it was decided to perform a stratigraphic-seismic study on
5,000 km, which was carried out by an American company in mid-1986.
This study gave good stratigraphic indications, but did not result in
the definition of well supported stratigraphic exploration targets.



Geolcaical Field Survey!
22. A first geological field survey in the onshore Bowe basin was
carried out from February to April 1985. A total of 42 samples were
collected by a team composed of four Guinean geologists and two
geologists from PSA. Analyses of collected samples showed that the
Silurian shales, although cooked by volcanic intrusions, are potential
source rocks. It was then decided to carry out a second field survey,
in order to collect samples for geochemical analysis in areas as distant
as possible from volcanic intrusions. The second geological field
survey was implemented in March-April 1986: the samples showed a
relative abundance of organic matter which, however, had been generally
altered either through overcooking or surface alteration.
23. Since the apparent overmaturity of Silurian samples might result
from superficial alteration, it was decided to obtain fresh samples by
drilling two wells about 50 meters deep. In March 1987, two attempted
wells were prematurely abandoned in volcanic rocks. It was then
resolved to: (a) thoroughly study the location of further drilling
through geophysical surveys, in order to verify the absence of shallow
volcanic rocks; and (b) to drill the shallow wells in appropriately
selected locations. With equipment obtained from the Direction G6n6rale
de la G6ologie, the DH carried out magnetic and gravity studies which
led to the location of two shallow wells. Drilling was performed in
November 1988. The Tomboya and Tondon wells reached 220 and 114 meters
depth respectively. Silurian source rocks in both wells were
overmature.
24. In line with the project description, the negative results obtained
in the Bowe basin resulted in the termination of the exploration work
program financed by the Bank in the basin. The geological field survey
targeted at analyzing the maturity of Paleozoic source rocks, which was
scheduled during appraisal for October/November 1984, was extended from
April 1985 to November 1988, because of the difficulties met in
obtaining fresh samples of these source rocks.
Petroleum Legislation
25. As mentioned above (paragraoh 13), the Minister did not agree
initially to include the preparation of Petroleum Legislation in the
project. During negotiations, however, it was agreed, as a compromise
between the respective positions of the Government and Bank, to
introduce a training program for Government's staff in petroleum
contract negotiations.
26. In December 1984, seminars were organized to that effect in
Conakry: (a) by the Ecole Nationale Superieure des P6troles et Moteurs
(ENSPM) on the petroleum industry; and (b) by a legal consultant on
petroleum legislation and petroleum contract negotiations. These were
attended by about 20 to 30 persons from the Ministries of Mines and
Geology, Finance, Commerce, Planning, Energy and the Central Bank.
BEICIP made a well-organized and systematic presentation of the subject.
27. The MMG was impressed by the quality of the presentation, and as
the new Minister had expressed a strong interest in developing petroleum
legislation for the country the same consultant was retained for that
purpose and a contract was signed on February 27, 1985. In June 1985,
the consultant propcosed an initial draft of the Petroleum Code and a
Model Contract, under two options: production-sharing contract, or joint
venture between the Government and the oil companies. In December 1985,
the consultant presented a final draft of the proposed petroleum
legislation, incorporating the Government's and Bank's comments.



- 6 -
28.   Following the Bank's recommendations, the Government opted for the
production-sharing model, and the Petroleum Code and a Model Production
Sharing Agreement were enacted in September 1986. In order to prepare
the petroleum exploration promotion, the Government also published
"Guidelines for making applications for production-sharing contracts".
Companies were requested to bid on two main items: the amount of working
commitments, and profit oil sharing.
Oil Companies' Status
29. In late 1984, MOBIL inherited all petroleum rights previously held
by Superior Oil in Guinea, including its share in the SGP contract, as a
consequence of its take-over of the latter company.
30. The offshore dispute between the Republic of Guinea and the
Government of Guinea Bissau was settled by the International Court of
Justice, in the Hague, on February 14, 1985. This decision resulted in
a 25% decrease in the SGH contract area (from 36,000 km2 to 27,000 km2),
and a subsequent extension to May 15,1986, of the SGH agreement.
31. In 1985, MOBIL requested the Government to jointly reassess the
contractual obligations inherited from Superior, which included the
drilling of an exploration well. MOBIL, however, eventually decided to
relinquish the SGH contract area it had inherited from Superior. SGH
was finally dissolved in 1986. All information on the MOBIL contract
area was then released, and the MKG exploration consultant integrated
these data into the geological synthesis report later presented to the
oil industry.
32. In mid-1984, the Ministry received an offer from a small
promotional company called Anglo-Suisse Co. to acquire the rights over
the entire offshore acreage not committed at the time under the existing
contract with Superior. However, PSA advised the Government not to
enter into a contract with Anglo-Suisse Co. because of the poor work
commitments offered, large acreage size and weak relinquishment
provision. The Minister decided to go ahead with the petroleum
exploration promotion, following which Anglo-Suisse could make a fresh
offer, which would then be considered together with all other offers.
The company never reiterated its offer.
Petroleum Exyloration Promotion
33. The Government's exploration consultant integrated the newly
acquired seismic data into the existing geological data, and published a
regional report, which was thoroughly reviewed by the Bank. The final
report was issued in January 1987.
34. Promotional meetings were held successively in Houston and London
in June 1987, an eighteen months' lag as compared with the planned
Schedule of Implementation (caused by the long delay necessary to obtain
technical data acquired by MOBIL). Although the promotional
presentations were well attended, only five companies eventually bought
the geological synthesis report as prepared by the MMG exploration
consultants (for a total amount of US$90,500), and none approached the
Government to negotiate a petroleum exploration contract. This lack of
success is mainly due to the absence of convincing exploration targets
in Guinea's offshore basin. Depressed oil prices at the time of the
promotion may also have acted as a deterrent.
35. In March 1988, the DH contracted a highly qualified exploration
consultant, (particularly well-informed about the hydrocarbon potential
of the country, since he had previously edited the MSGB report, see
paragraph 36 and 37 below), in order to carry out new promotional
efforts through visits to a certain number of selected oil companies in



-7-
the US. This exercise was not succ-esful. The consultant nevertheless
recommended that similar promotional efforts be made to oil companies in
Europe. In 1988, a delegation of the DH organized promotional
presentations to nine European companies. These demonstrated a stronger
interest than the American oil industry, but no concrete proposal from
an oil company ever materialized.
KSGS - West Africa Geoloalcal Reaional Study
36. In mid-1985, four countries in West Africa (Mauritania, Senegal,
Gambia and Guinea Bissau) were preparing a regional geological study
including each country's western sedimentary basin. This regional study
was known under the acronym MSGB. On November 15, 1985, the Ministry
requested the extension of the MSGB regional study to the Guinean
offshore sedimentary basin.
37. The MSGB extended study was completed in 1987. However, due to
time constraints, and to the involvement of three different consultants,
the study was more a juxtaposition of local studies than an actual
regional study. Only five reports were sold to the oil industry. The
methodology adopted to implement this unsuccessful regional study was
analyzed with a view to preparing other regional studies, such as the
Red Sea geological study. The main lessons drawn are that a regional
study should be: (a) conceived as such, and not be the result of the
initial implementation of local studies, subsequently integrated; and
(b) under the responsibility of only one team of consultants from the
start.
38. In a similar exercise, and within a cooperation agreement concluded
between the Republic of Guinea and the Government of Guinea Bissau, both
Governments agreed to carry out a joint evaluation of the hydrocarbon
potential of a common offshore area on both sides of the border. A work
program was designed to that effect, and the Governments are currently
looking for external assistance to finance this study.
Institutions
39. In mid-January 1985, the Ministry of Mines and Geology, with its
powers extended to cover both the petroleum and the electricity
subsectors, became the Ministry responsible for Planning and Natural
Resources (MPNR). By December 1985, a reorganization resulted in the
MPNR changing into a Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and
Environment (MNREE). Finally, in early 1988, the Secretariat d'Etat &
l'Energie (SEE) was created within the MNREE. on October 6, 1988, the
SEE (which incorporates the DH) was officially designated to carry out
the petroleum-related components of the Project.
40. In March 1988, in the context of the privatization of petroleum
products distribution activities the Government requested the Bank to
finance under the Credit a study of the reorganization of Guinea's
petroleum subsector. The DH requested, and obtained the Bank's
agreement to contract the French company BEICIP for that task. The firm
had both the required qualifications and good experience in the
petroleum subsector in Guinea.
41. The consultant submitted a first draft of its report on January 19,
1989, and issued its final report on March 10, 1989. It recommended
that the DH's technical activity be extended to the entire petroleum
sector, including the technical monitoring of petroleum supply and
distribution operations, in particular the much-needed control over
safety measures.



42. In February 1990, the Secretary of State for Energy issued
directives enlarging the scope of the DH's activity as recomm-nded by
SEICIP. However, these now directives are likely to remain meaningless
unless the DH receives: (a) appropriate training to give it the capacity
to fulfill its expanded task; and (b) the position within the Government
which would give it the nece"sary authority to carry out its technical
control of petroleum activities in the country.
43. Following a Government request during the last phase of the project
(June, 1990), the consultant also prepared regulations governing
maintenance of petroleum product storage and transportation facilities.
These regulations fill a void, but being based on the French
regulations, are too detailed and sophisticated to be immediately
applied as such. They need be streamlined to suit the Government's
capacity for implementation.
44. During project implementation, and within the framework of the
withdrawal of the Government from public sector activities, the Bank
also financed consultants to assist the Government in the privatization
of ONAH. Lengthy negotiations took place between the Government and a
consortium of three oil companies (AGIP, SHELL and TOTAL) with a view to
setting up a joint venture (with shares of 49% for the Government and
51% for the companies).
45. The Government's share of the joint venture takes the form of
ONAH's assets in Guinea (distribution network in the capital city and in
the provinces). The Joint Venture's equity is evaluated at US$11.5
million, of which US$2 million is in cash.
46. The new company, the Societe Guineenne des P6troles (SGP), was
officially constituted on December 20, 1990. However, SGP will only
take over the supply and distribution of petroleum products in the
country over a 21 month period, when most of the relevant facilities
have been rehabilitated. In the meantime, the Bank is financing a
management contract for ONAH, which is implemented by the firm Coopers
and Lybrand (C. & L.).
47. Petroleum storage and distribution facilities are in poor
condition, particularly with regard to safety issues, and constitute a
permanent danger for the industrial and urban environment. As a
priority task, the joint venture will have to rehabilitate these
facilities. The cost is such that the Government's share exceeds its
initial input, which has obliged it to request external financial
assistance.
Trainina
48. The most efficient training received by DH staff was their
participation in the different surveys (such as GECO seismic survey and
the geological field surveys in the Bowe basin) and studies (such as the
seismic-stratigraphy study carried out or the geochemical analysis of
the samples collected in the Bowe basin) implemented under the Credit.
Furthermore, the exploration consultant organized systematic training
of DH staff in all petroleum exploration-related issues, including
training in computerized data bank utilization. The total training cost
under the Credit was SDR 158,765, out of which approximately SDR 40,000
were used to finance a crash course in safety control of petroleum
storage and transport facilities.
49. A small cell of geologists and geophysicists within the DH has been
trained, able to handle most exploration-related issues. The
qualifications acquired nevertheless need to be updated and completed in
certain fields, such as seismic-stratigraphic studies. Moreover, the DH



staff requiros significant training in all petroleum activities relating
to products supply and distribution.
DH Building
50. The Division of Hydrocarbons (DH) had been allocated space in a
separate building owned by the Ministry, but the building needed to be
rehabilitated, and this space was not large enough to accommodate all
the Division's staff including the short-term technical consultants. In
May 1985, the Government requested the Bank to finance a pre-fabricated
office building for the DH.  In view of the DR's urgent need for office
&nd storage space, and its effect on project implementation, the
Association agreed to the Government's request, and the Credit Agreement
was accordingly modified on October 29, 1985.
51. Following a call for bids sent to a short list of companies, the
Government proposed to award the building contract to the French company
Sopromex, represented by the company Socipra. The contracts were signed
on November 5, 1985, and July 7, 1986. On December 20, 1986, the DH took
possession of the building. Basic office equipment was provided under
the Credit, and by June 1986 the DH staff occupied the new building.
Audit of the Credit A:counts
52. The Abidjan office of specialized firm was selected in early 1985
to carry out the annual auditing of the Credit, and to set up
appropriate accounting procedures within the DH. Auditing of the
project accounts was done regularly, although not always on time.
Accounting procedures were set up within the DH, and were satisfactorily
applied for most of the time (during a short period in 1987-1988 the
emigration at short notice of the DH accountant left the Division
temporarily without a book-keeper).
Disbursements
53. Variances between planned and actual disbursements reflect the
changes to the project work program that occurred during its
implementation.
AMOUNTS
(in SDR)
Category                               Planned
(Ref. Credit)
Acreement              Actual
Seismic surveys                      3,150,000              489,681
First geological field                 390,000              575,509
survey
Second geological field                245,000                  0
survey
Exploration consultants'             1,140,000            3,039,256
services
Power consultants'                     970,000            2,337,492
services
Training                               145,000              158,763
Office and garage                        0                  185,428



- 10 -
Refunding of PPF advance               970,000              876,732
(P 187 GUI)
Unallocated                            690,000                     0
Cancelled                               37,139
TOTAL                                7,700,000            7,700,000
54.  Three comments may be made to clarify this table:
(a) Since the Association felt that technical assistance to SNE
was still necessary beyond the period contemplated during
appraisal, and an expenditures on seismic data acquisition
were lower than initially expected, it wau decided to finance
the necessary assistance to SNE with the savings made from the
reduction in the seismic program. This transfer of funds
between two categories of the project was terminated upon
strong opposition from the DH; and
(b) As mentioned above, under paragraphs 20 to 24, the first
geological field survey was aimed at evaluating the maturation
statua of Paleozoic source rocks in the Bowe basin. However,
this evaluation was more difficult than initially appreciated,
and two geological surveys and two shallow well campaigns were
eventually required. Since the results of this study yielded
only negative results, the detailed stratigraphy study,
officially recorded in the project description as the "se-ond
geological survey", was never implemented. It was through a
technical misunderstanding about this geological work program
that aome of the corresponding expenditures were recorded in
the category "second geological survey". This error has been
corrected in the above table.
(c) Proceeds of the Credit were reallocated on October 29, 1985,
for inserting a new category, providing office and garage
facilities for MPNR in the amount of SDR 180,000'.
Procurement
55.      World Bank guidelines were followed in all steps of the
Project, and the evaluation of bids was thorough. Consultants with
special qualifications, such as BEICIP for the preparation of Petroleum
Legislation, were contracted directly.
z3       Proiect Results - General Comments
56. The Project was not successful to the extent that the promotion
effort did not yield any oil industry interest. However, the project
resulted in: (a) enhanced scientific knowledge regarding the geological
characteristics of the Guinea offshore basin; and (b) the strengthening
of the technical expertise of the Hydrocarbons Directorate (DH) staff.
57. Variances in the project work program consisted of:
(a) the addition to, or subtraction from the project components
such as the cancellation of the seismic survey in the shallow
offshore region, or the decision to carry out a seismic-
stratigraphy study on the shelf area; and



- 11 -
(b) modifications to the appraisal schedule, such as the
considerable extension of the analysis of the maturation of
Paleozoic souree rock in the Bowe basin.
58. These changes resulted from findings due to ongoing exploration, or
from some external decision (such as the relinquishment by MOBIL of its
acreage), and reflect thorough follow-up of the project, and an
appropriate reaction to unfolding developments. However, a few
decisions taken during project implementation, such as the country's
participation in the MSGB regional study, or the construction of a
building for the DH staff, could equally well have been made during
appraisal.
59. The geological and geophysical work carried out under the project
determined that the onshore and offshore acreage had lses potential for
hydrocarbons than was initially expected. During appraisal, these two
risks had been contemplated, but they seemed at the time to be
outweighed by the potential benefits of a commercial hydrocarbons
discovery.
60. The risk of devaluing potential acreage through costly seismic
surveys should have led to a consideration of organizing a promotion
campaign based on existing data, without resorting to the acquisition of
fresh hard technical data.
F.   Proiect Sustainabilitv
61. The Project resulted in a regulatory framework for petroleum
related activities in the country and the strengthening of the technical
expertise of the DH staff. Technically supervising the petroleum
products supply and distribution is indispensable, in particular in the
field of: (a) safety of products storage and transport; (b) protection
of the environment with regard to petroleum products storing and
handling; and (c) products quality control. If the regulatory frame
work is first adapted to local conditions and second enacted, and if the
DH receives further training to give it the capacity to enforce the
appropriate regulations, the Project will have a long-term and
beneficial effect.
Gv   Performance of Parties Involved in the Proiect
Performance of the Borrower
62. The Borrower took full advantage of the training program provided
under the project. It always provided the appropriate support and
cooperation to visiting consultants as well as to Bank missions. It was
consistently open to dialogue with the Association's representatives,
which was a key element in the satisfactory implementation of the
project.
63. However, the Borrower did not always provide the Association with
periodic reports about the implementation of the project, or the
required annual audit reports, within the prescribed time frame.
Performance of the Bank
64. The key task of the Bank was monitoring the exploration program
carried out under the Project, and preparing appropriate recommendations
to the Government when unexpected exploration results were obtained.
Furthermore, although the decision to carry out a complementary seismic
survey on the shelf area may be questioned, the Association assisted the
Government in finding a geophysical contractor who agreed to cofinance
the acquisition of this complementary seiamic data. The Bank Also



- 12 -
monitored closely the implementation of the covenants included in the
Development Credit Agrement.
Performanc- of consultants
65. All the consultants involved in the implmentation of the Project
carried out their tasks satisfactorily in accordance with international
industry standards. The most important function, however, was performed
by the Government's consultant, who should share the praise (and the
censure) given to the Bank, in particular for its swift reaction to new
exploration finding.
66. Despite the favorable results listed above, there were certain less
satisfactory outcomes which concerned the following:
(a) the overstepping of SNE's budget, as established in category
2.d of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement;
(b) the insufficient budget allocation for training SNE, which
received category 2.d of Credit 1438-GUI, prejudiced the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project by spending SDR
1,367,491.90 more than the SDR 970,000 allocated to it; and
(c) this overrun had to be made up by the project, which also had
to fund a large number of supplementary studies.
67. The project vianagement and the auditors drew the attention of the
appropriate representatives of Guinea and the World Bank to this
situation, which jeopardized the continuation of the project and upset
its budgetary estimates. Compensation for this overrun was requested
but to no avail.
G. ProIect Documentation and Data
68. Abundant files regarding the implementation of the project exist in
the Bank and were utilized to draft this report. Furthermore, the DH
provided all the data and documents necessary to complement the Bank's
records.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1438-GUI)
PART II a PROJECT RVEW  FROM  MRRM'S PERIPUCTV
As  INTRODUCTON
1.   In accordance with the recommendations that resulted from the talks
hold in Conakry January 23-26 between the World Bank and the Division of
Hydrocarbons, we herewith submit Chapter xr of the Completion Report on
the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project in Guinea covered by Credit
1438-GUI.
2.   The first part of this chapter, the background, provides an outline
of the objectives of the project and its financial structure, while the
second part is an integral part of the report itself and focuses on an
evaluation of the performance of the parties to Credit Agreement 1438-
GUI during project implementation.
B. B*ACKGROUND
3.   Following a series of negotiations held between November 1979 and
January 1984, Credit Agreement 1438-GUI was signed on January 31, 1984
between IDA (International Development Association) and the Government
of the Republic of Guinea. The purpose of this Agreement concerning the
Petroleum Promotion Project was:
(a) to assist the Government of Guinea in its efforts to promote
exploration activities in the country's free acreage by
international petroleum companies; and
(b) to create and maintain in operation a Division of Hydrocarbons
(DH) which would be responsible for executing and supervising
all exploration and production activities.
4.   The project program consisted of four components:  a technical
component; a promotional component; a training component; and an
infrastructure and equipment component.
(a) The technical component had three objectives:
(i)  to conduct seismic surveys offshore, on the plateau and
on the continental shelf;
(ii) to reprocess some of the seismic data gathered from
earlier surveys;
(iii) to carry out geological field surveys in the Bowe basin;
(b) The promotional component also had three objectives:
(i)  to develop an exploration promotion strategy;
(ii) to provide assistance with this promotion;



- 14 -
(iii) to negotiate exploration and production agreements;
(c) The primary objective of the training component was to provide
project staff with training during project implementation both
in Guinea and abroad, in geology, geophysics and also in the
economic and legal aspects of the petroleum industry; and
(d) The primary objective of the infrastructure and equipment
component wau to ensure the efficient operation of the DH
through the provision of infrastructure, technical equipment
and office facilities.
5.   To enable it to carry out this program the Project was the
beneficiary of three sources of funding:
(a) IDA Credit No. 1438-GUI for SDR 7.7 million, SDR 970,000 of
which was allocated to the Socl#td Nationale d'Electricit6
(SNE). This Credit is interest-free and repayable in 50 years
with a 10-year grace period;
(b) a grant from Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation
(PCIAC) amounting to US$3.6 million. This money has been
managed entirely by PCIAC which provided its services free of
charge; and
(c) a contribution from the Government of Guinea to cover local
expenditures amounting to US$400,000.
Credit 1438-GUI, initially given a term of three years (1984-87),
was granted three extensions and closed on June 30, 1990.
C.   PERFORMANCE OF PARTIES TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT 1438-GUI
We shall evaluate, in turn, the performance of the Borrower and of
the World Bank and also the quality of their relations and its impact on
project implementation:
Performance of Borrower (Government of Guinea)
6.   While the Government of Guinea did, on the whole, fulfill its
obligations under the Credit Agreement, including the establishment of a
DH, compliance with procedures for procurement, hiring consultants and
disbursement etc., there were some shortcomings, such as:
(a) its inability to make the necessary premises available to the
Project, as provided for in Section 3.10 of the Credit
Agreement. This situation caused serious operating and
organizational problems which prompted the Government to
submit a request to the World Bank for the reallocation of the
Credit to allow the construction of offices for the Project;
(b) the complexity and sluggishness of administrative channels did
not facilitate the provision of counterpart local funds by the
Borrower, particularly following the closing of Banques
Publiques in 1985 and the transfer of the Project Account to
the Treasury;
(c) the shortfall in the Borrower's actual participation, which
totaled only GF 54 million. (This is well below the amount
stipulated in the Credit Agreement, viz. GF 176 million -
equivalent to US$400,000); and



- 15 -
(d) the Project was seriously affected by the multiplo
restructuring operations that took place and which often did
not comply with the pertinent provisions of the Credit
Agreement, am stipulated in Sections 3.02 and 3.04.b of said
Agreement.
Performance of the Bank
7.   In the course of Project implementation the Bank satisfactorily
performed all its obligations under Credit Agreement 1438-GUI. It fully
performed its role with respect of the payment of invoices, the
reallocation of funds from one category of expenditure to another as and
when required, and the monitoring of all the works carried out both in
Guinea and by the consultants abroad.
8.  The manner in which Bank staff directly involved in the monitoring
of the project made themselves available was noted with particular
satisfaction.
9.   Certain comments still need to be made, however, with respect to
the Bank's performance:
(a) the delay, averaging two months, which sometimes occurred in
the Bank's payment of invoices hindered the start-up of
certain works, such as the construction of offices, the
regular monitoring of disbursements and the timely calculation
of the balance remaining under the Credit; and
(b) the Bank's reservations about long-term training for Guinean
staff, in accordance with well-established career plans, are
also deeply regrettable.
In fact the only training provided under the Project was in the
form of short-term seminars which did not offer participants any
opportunity for specialization.
D.   3VALUAMION OF THE OUALITY OF WORLD BAU/REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NRATIONS AND ITS IMACT ON PROJECT IPEMENTATrON
10. Besides conducting its customary missions, the World Bank also
played the role of chief adviser on all petroleum-related activities
throughout all the phases of Project implementation. This atmosphere of
mutual understanding facilitated decision-making on important issues
concerning the Project's basic objectives. Also, during the entire
Project no contract was canceled and no invoice was left unpaid because
of irregularities.
11. Relations between the World Bank and the Guinean Government were
thus characterized by an atmosphere of understanding and frank
cooperation at all levels and by a sound grasp of the problems in terms
of finding positive and optimal solutions.
12. on the whole the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project in Guinea
achieved the objectives assigned to it under the terms of the Credit
Agreement 1438-GUI, as confirmed by the following results:
(a) establishment of a DH (See Section 3.02 and 6.01 of the
Agreement) and the provision of appropriate infrastructure for
the operation of this division (offices, vehicles, materials
and various types of equipment etc.);
(b) acquisition of 3,400 km of new seismic profiles by PCIAC and
GECO and also the reprocessing of 6,500 old lines the by



- 16 -
Geophysical Development Corporation in the case of the seismic
studies and Texas Geophysical Company in the case of the
gravimetric analysist and
(c) the conducting of two geological campaigns in the Bowe Basin
followed by two deep core-drill surveys.
13. Geochemical studies have been made of the samples collected in the
course of this work to assess the petroleum potential of the Paleozoic
formationss
(a) completion of a synthesis study of the potential of the
petroleum marketed in 1987 and the holding of two promotional
meetings in June 1987, one in Houston and the other in London,
with the assistance of P&troconsultants S.A. (Swiss) during
which five offshore blocks with a total area of about 50,000
km2 were offered to the international petroleum industry;
(b) the preparation and enactment of a petroleum code relating to
hydrocarbon exploration and extraction, a standard production
sharing contract and an implementing decree, all the
aforementioned legislation having been prepared with the
assistance of BEICIP;
(c) the participation of Guinea in the MSGB (Mauritania, Senegal,
Gambia, Guinea-Bissau and Republic of Guinea) regional
geological synthesis study;
(d) the training of Guinean staff both in Guinea and abroad
through their involvement in the studies carried out and
through advanced training seminars;
(e) the construction of offices for the Project following a
reallocation of funds requested by the Government;
(f) the completion, at the end of 1988, of the study on the
reorganization of the petroleum sector in Guinea with the
assistance of BEICIP; and
(g) the conducting in December 1989 of the so-called "in-house
visit" promotional campaign aimed at European petroleum
companies.
14. Despite the favorable results listed above, there were certain less
satisfactory outcomes which concerned the following:
(a) the overstepping of SNE's budget, as established in category
2.d of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement;
(b) the insufficient budget allocation for training SNE, which
received category 2.d of Credit 1438-GUI, prejudiced the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project by spending SDR
1,367,491.90 more than the SDR 970,000 allocated to it; and
(c) this overrun had to be made up by the project, which also had
to fund a large number of supplementary studies.
15. The project management and the auditors, Coopers & Lybrand, each
drew the attention of the appropriate representatives of Guinea and the
World Bank to this situation, which jeopardized the continuation of the
project and upset its budgetary estimates. Compensation for this
overrun was requested but to no avail.



- 17 -
16. On the subject of the training of Guinean personnel, not only was
the budget allocated, i.e. SDR 145,000, insufficient but there was also
a total absence of any career prospects for the people involved.
B.   CONCgZaQ
17.  Implementation of the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project war
extremely worthwhile in terms of the organization and revitalization of
Guinea's petroleum sector.
18. Numerous positive elements, such as the further training of DH
staff, the significant assets acquired and the volume of technical data
obtained on Guinea's offshore and onshore potential etc., all helped to
consolidate the spirit of cooperation that exists between the World Bank
and the Guinean Government.
19. The few shortcomings that occurred during Project implementation
could easily have been prevented had the two parties taken more careful
to adhere strictly to the terms of the Credit Agreement, which would
have yieldea much more significant results.
20. While one of the most important objectives, i.e. the signing of the
hydrocarbon exploration-production contracts, has yet to be achieved,
the latest "in house visit" promotional campaign is seen as extremely
promising. The Guinean Government and the World Bank must therefore
continue to work together to sustain this effort.
21.  The standardization and monitoring of Guinea's entire petroleum
sector will also be the legitimate responsibility of the DH, and will
caLl for additional efforts by the Government to restructure and train
staff.
22. It is therefore important for the World Bank to continue its
assistance to the Government in the form of a further Credit, which
would enable the DH to perform the responsibilities assigned to it more
effectively.
..



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1438-GUI)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORASTZON
1.   Proiect Timetable
Date:Planned   Date:Revised  "a e:Actu
First mention in file.                                   06/14/79
Identification                                           03/1982
Preparation                                              04/82 to 03/83
Appraisal mission         09/1982                        03/1983
Loan Comnittee            02/1983                        08/1983
Negotiation                              10/1983         12/12-14/83
Board Presentation       06/1983         11/1983         01/17/1984
Signature                                                01/31/1984
Effective Date            04/1984                        06/19/1984
Credit Closing Date       06/30/1987     06/30/1988      06/30/1990
Credit Completion Date   12/31/1986      06/30/1988      10/30/1990
2.  Credit Cumulative DiSbursements
US S million
FY84   FY85   FY86    L8_7  FY88   FY89   FY90/91
Appraisal               1.5     5.0    7.5    8.0
(cumulative)
Actual (cumulative)       0     1.2    5.6    6.8    7.8   8.4    8.9
Actual as % of                    24     75      77     89  105    111
appraisal
SDR million
Appraisal               FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90/91
(cumulative)
Actual (cumulative)    1.4    4.8    7.2    7.7
Actual as % of            0    1.2    4.9    6.1    6.9       7.3      7.7
appraisal
25     68      79     90       95      100
Comnent: Date of last disbursement was September 10, 1990.



- 19 -
3.   Proiect Imglementation
Appraisal       Actual
fty_Tndioators                                 Estimate        Estimate
Test seismic survey                            10/83            09/83
Agreement on training program for 1984         12/83            12/83
Establishment of Hydrocarbons Unit             01/84            01/84
Reprocessing of old seismic data               04/84            04/85
Seminar on Petroleum Legislation               OS/85            12/84
Commencement of shallow water                  09/84           Canceled
seismic program
First geological field survey                  11/84           03/85 to 11/88
Commencement of seismic program on             01/85           12/84
continental shelf
Decision regarding second geological           04/85           07/88
field survey
Second geological field survey                 10/85           Canceled
Employment of accounting consultants           10/85           03/85
Submission of promotion report                 01/86           01/87
by consultant
Promotional meetings with oil companies        01-02/86        06/87
Closing Date                                   06/30/87        06/30/90



- 20 -
4.   Project costs and Pinancina
(a) Proiect costs broken down between categories (Ref. Project Cost as estimated in
the Prciident's Report)
Ammuta
(in us $000)
APPrisa EbtUna                   Rcvbed Etimae                     Actlud
Local     Foin         Tol        Local    Foign       TOtl    LOal        Fori        Total
Exchange                          Exbcange                        Exchauge
Cow                               Coat                           cogs
1. Seoisic Swvey                       0        6,300        6,300         0      1,173      1,173      0        4,740     4,740
2. GoocheincaAmldyasiof                0          30           30          0        30         30       0         i1S        115
field sanlc
3. Tewchia Axsistane                  90        1,200        1,290        90      1,200      1,290       46      4,070      4,116
COi Exploration Promoon
4. BIecUric  Power                    30         900          930         90      2,544      2,634        9      2,544      2,553
S. Tmraig                             30          150         180         30       IS0         180        5       176        181
6. Material ad Equipmnw               150        200          350         150      200        350        62       226        288
7. Refndidg of PPF advsace                      1,000        1,000         0      1,000      1,000        0      1,121      1,121
(P 187 GUI)
8. Coewingeci                         100       1,820        1,920         0      3,160      3,160        0        0          0
9. Canelled                                                                                                        32         32
ToUt                              400       11,600       12,000       360     9,457      9,817       122     13,024    13,146



- 21 -
(b) Proigct Financing
Planned
(Ref. President's
Report)
Source         Aareement       Revised   Final      Comments
IDA            8,000           n.a.       8,838     Difference (838) is
due to variations in
exchange rate
Domestic          400          n.a.         122     Difference due to
Government's lack of
funds
Co-financing  3,600            n.a.       3,600     evaluated: PCIAC
financed directly a
seismic survey carried
out with its own
seismic boat
Other External
Sources                      0             586
Total         12,000                      13,146
5.   Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraised Estimated at   Estimated at Full
Indicator      Estimate  Closing Date        Develonment
Number of new
exploration
contracts          n.a.         0         0 (If no further promotional
effort is carried out)
strengthening
of DH technical
capacity       possible   realized        will progressively decrease if
exploration activities are not
revived
B.   Economic Impact
Appraisal            Actual
Estimate        (At final develonment)
Economic Rate of Return             None            None
Observation: no SAR was prepared.
C.   Financial Imoact
Not applicable



- 22 -
D.   studies
Purpose au defined
at appraisal, or
during the course                    Impact of the
Studjie           of the Proiect       Status              Study
Evaluation of     Promotion of         completed       Reports sold
Hydrocarbon       acreage                              for US $90,500
Potential                                              but no
contract was
signed
Seismic           Promotion of         completed       May be useful
Stratigraphic     acreage completed                    for future
interpretation                                         promotion
offshore
Geochomical       Promotion of         completed       no result
modeling          acreage
Geochemical       Study of             completed       Conclusions:
study: Bowe       hydrocarbon                          overmaturity
basin             potential of the                     of source
Bowe basin                           rocks
Interpretation    Promotion of         completed       no result
of Potential      acreage
field data
PCIAC report      Promotion of         completed       no result
acreage
Regulations       controlling safety   completed       the DH will
concerning        issues and                           need technical
downstream        petroleum products                   assistance to
petroleum         quality control                      enforce
activities                                             regulations
6.   Status of Credit Covenants
Agreement
Covenants                          Section               Comnliance
Maintaining a hydrocarbons        2.04                      Met
unit within the MMG
Employing expatriate              3.02                      Met
consultants
Exchanging views with IDA                                   Met
regarding promotion strategy      3.03(a)
opening of a separate account     3.05(b)               Incompletely met
Furnishing training               3.06(a)                   Met
program to IDA                                               irregularly
Reviewing with IDA results        3.07(a)&(b)               Met
of the first field survey
Preparing periodical reports      3.08(a)              Met with occas-
ional delay



- 23 -
Maintaining separate accounts      4.01(a)              Met
for SNE component of the
project
Auditing of project accounts       4.01(b)              Met with
occasional delay
Comments: a separate account in hard currency was opened, into which the
revenue from the sale of promotional documents was deposited.
However, the DH has not yet been given access to the account.
7.  Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inout
Stage of
Proiect Cycle                            Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                          30.1
Appraisal through  Effectiveness           17.6
Supervision                               107 5
TOTAL                                     155.2
B.  Missions
Mission   Number of Persons      Mission Specialization   Performance
Date       SW in the field       Place     Represented   Rating Status
(a)   Throuch Appraisal
03/80                1        CONAKRY         GST             1
10/81                0.       LONDON          GST            2
01/82                1        CONAKRY         GST             1
03/82                3        CONAKRY         FA & EC        2
04/82               0.5       LONDON          GST            2
10/82               1.5       CONAKRY         FA & GST       2
(b) Through Effectiveness
03/83                2        CONAKRY         FA & GST        1
06/83                2        CONAKRY         FA & LEG        1
(c) SuRervision
02/84                0.5      GENEVA          GST             1
05/84                 1       CONAKRY         FA              1



- 24 -
06/84                 1        CONAXRY        OST             1
08/84                 3        CONAKRY        PA & LEG        1
11/84                0.5      CONAKRY         PA              1
12/84                 1       OONAXRY         LEG             1
02/85                 2        CONAKRY        PA & EGR        1
04-05/85              2        CONAKRY        PA & EGR        1
09/85                 1        CONAKRY        LEG             1
10/85                 1       GENEVA          GST             1
01/86                 3       CONAKRY         GST, LEG & EGR 1
07/86                0.5       PARIS          GST             1
05/87                 1       CONAKRY         GST             1
06/87                 1       HOUSTON         GST & EGR       1
10/87                 1       GENEVA          GST & EGR       1
03/88                 1       CONAKRY         GST             1
07/88                 2       CONAKRY         GST & EGR       1
01/89                 1        CONAKRY        GST             1
08/89                 1       CONAKRY         GST             1
01/90                 1       CONAKRY         GST             1
07/90                0.5       PARIS          GST             1
TOTAL Staff
Weeks in the
Field:       37,5
Key to Specialization: GST = Geologist; EGR = Engineer; LEG = Lawyer
PA = Financial Analyst; EC = Economist
Key to Status: = 1 No Problem Met during Mission



