DIT NUMBER 1438 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  C OI/          , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1438 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           ot.L"        3 (   , 1984, between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from Petro Canada
International Assistance Corporation (hereinafter called PCIAC)
a grant (hereinafter called the PCIAC Grant) in an amount of
approximately $3,600,000 to assist in financing Part A.1 (b) of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the PCIAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and PCIAC;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective   meanings  therein   set  forth   and  the   following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Preparation Advances" means the project pre-
paration advances granted by the Association to the Borrower


﻿-2-
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated January 23, 1982 and
April 22, 1982, and May 10, 1983 and June 2, 1983, between the
Borrower and the Association;
(b) "MMG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mines and
Geology; and
(c)  "SNE"O means Soci6t& Nationale d'Electricit6, an Entre-
prise d'Etat established and operating pursuant to Decree No.
175, dated June 27, 1960 of the Borrower, as amended from time to
time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to seven million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 7,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services requl-ed for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdraWn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such  later  date  as  the Association   shall establish.     The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligibl currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the princ!ipal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1994, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2033, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through
D of the Project through MMG and shall cause SNE to carry out
Part E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, petroleum
industry and public utility practices, and shall provide, prompt-
ly as needed, the funds, facilities, including office facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) establish and there-
after maintain within MMG a hydrocarbons unit, with such powers
and responsibilities as shall be acceptable to the Association,
including, inter alia, the execution and supervision of petroleum
exploration activities under the Project; and (b) staff that unit
with a project coordinator, assisted by a geologist and a geo-
ptysicist and such other professional and administrative staff as
ne,ded from time to time, all of whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out Parts A.3, B, C and D of the Project, and in order to
assist SNE to carry out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ petroleum exploration consultants and experts and engi-
neering, legal and financial experts, all of whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such consultants and experts to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall assign, and shall cause SNE to
assign, counterpart staff to the consultants and experts as of
the first day of their employment pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section; such counterpart staff shall have qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall cooperate and shall cause SNE to
cooperate fully with such consultants and experts in the perfor-
mance of their services for the project and make available to
them all information relevant to the Project.


﻿-5-
(d) The Borrower shall cause such consultants and experts
promptly to furnish to the Association copies of the documents
prepared by them for the Project, including reports and drafts
thereof, plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and
estimates of costs, in such number as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(e) The Borrower shall from time to time exchange views
with the Association on the conclusions and recommendations
contained in the documents referred to in the preceding paragraph
and shall consult with the Association prior to the implementa-
tion of any programs proposed to be initiated in light of such
conclusions and recommendations.
(f) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of the experts or consultants
employed under the Project, or grant any material extension of
time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof,
or agree to any substitution of personnel of such experts or
consultants without the prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) exchange views with
the Association on the promotion strategy it intends to follow
before offering data, produced or obtained under the Project, for
sale or offering acreage, surveyed or evaluated under the Proj-
ect, for lease to the international oil industry; (b) open a
separate account in the Borrower's Central Bank and deposit
thereIn all proceeds from the sale of such data and from the
leasing of such acreage; and (c) unless the Association shall
otherwise agree upon a justified request of the Borrower, apply
such proceeds exclusively towards the financing of further petro-
leum exploration activities in the Borrower's territory.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part D.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) Not later than November 31 of each year during Project
implementation, furnish to the Association for its review and
approval a detailed program for technical, economic and legal
training in the following year; and
(b) award fellowships for such approved training programs
to persons whose qualifications shall be acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) promptly upon completion of the first geological field
survey, to be carried out under Part A.3 of the Project, review
the results thereof with the Association; and
(b) execute the second such survey only on the basis of
said results, if these results justify that second survey.
Section 3.08. (a) The Botrower: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals, but at least quarterly,
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-7-
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause SNE
to maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and of SNE.
(b) The Borrower shall and shall cause SNE to: (i) have the
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning said accounts
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For    the purposes of Section    6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The PCIAC Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1985, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this para-
graph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-


﻿-8-
faction of the Association that adequate funds for Part A.1 (b)
of the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)  (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant made to the Borrower for the financ-
ing of the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(ii) Sub-paragraph   (i) of this paragraph     shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfac-
tion of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has established and staffed
the hydrocarbons unit referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment.
Section 6.02. The date     /tu9              q  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Parts A through D of the
Project, the Minister of Mines and Geology of the Borrower, and


﻿-9-
for the purposes of Part E of the Project, the Minister of Energy
and Konkoure of the Borrower, respectively, are designated as the
respective representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
(for purposes of Parts A through D of the Project)
Ministry of Mines and Geology
P. 0. Box 295
Conakry
Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Telex:
650 MINGEO
For the Borrower:
(for purposes of Part E of the Project)
Ministry of Energy and Konkour6
P. 0. Box 1217
Conakry
Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Telex:
2181 SEE
2159 MINEK
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WREREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By   4      /14L  r-9   ) $ ag
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                  Ck P       4   4
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                 SDR Equivalent)
(1) Seismic surveys                               3,150,000
in shallow water
and processing of
data under Part
A.1 (a) of the
Project
(2) Consultants' and
experts' services,
including materials,
fuel and equipment
for surveys and data
interpretation, for:
(a) the first geo-                             390,000
logical field
survey under
Part A.3 of
the Project
(b) the second geo-                            245,000
logical field
survey under
Part A.3 of
the Project
(c) Parts A.2, B, C                          1,140,000
and D of the Pro-
ject
(d) Part E of the                              9709000
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                 SDR Equivalent)
(3) Training                                        145,000
(4) Refunding of Project                            970,000
Preparation Advances
due under Section
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                                     690,000
TOTAL                              7,700,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in tLat Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way


﻿- 13 -
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures  which  woald  otherwise   have  been  eligible  for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in promoting
available acreage in its territory for exploration by interna-
tional oil companies and to assist SNE in carrying out a program
for the rehabilitation and extension of Conakry's electrical
power system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Data Compilation and Processing
1.   Execution  of   seismic  surveys  and   processing  of
resulting data for:
(a) approximately 600 line-km in the shallow water
zone along the Borrower's coastline up to water
depths of approximately 30 meters, except in any
area covered by an active exploration permit on
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) approximately 3,000 line-km in the continental
shelf and slope along the south-western part of
the Borrower's coastline.
2.   Reprocessing of seismic data from previous seismic
surveys conducted offshore.
3.   Execution of two geological field surveys of approxi-
mately two months each on the onshore Bowe basin, to
survey the topography of the basin and to collect rock
samples.
Part B:   Data Evaluation
1.   lnterpretation of the seismic data generated in the
surveys carried out under Part A.1 of the Project.
2.   Reinterpretation of existing seismic data gathered in
the offshore region of the Borrower's territory.
3.   Geochemical and stratigraphic analysis of rock samples
collected during geological field surveys carried out
under Part A.3 of the Project.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:   Exploration Promotion
1.   Organization of data collected and evaluated under
Parts A and B into an information package for promo-
tional purposes.
2.   Evaluation of optimal size for acreage blocks and
minimum work program necessary to evaluate each block.
3.   Development of a strategy for promotion of acreage to
international oil companies under appropriate work
commitments and fiscal terms.
4.   Promotion of acreage to the international oil industry
and evaluation of proposals for acreage permits.
5.   Negotiation of petroleum exploration and production
agreements.
6.   Administration of petroleum exploration and production
agreements and monitoring of oil companies' activities.
Part D:   Training
1.   On-the-job training of MMG staff in all aspects of
petroleum exploration and production.
2.   Establishment and implementation of a program      for
training outside Guinea, including training in geology
and geophysics for selected MMG staff and seminars and
courses on the economic and legal aspects of petroleum
exploration  and   development,  including  accounting
practices, and contract analysis and administration,
for  selected  staff  of   MMG  and  other  Ministries
responsible for foreign investment in Guinea.
Part E:   Electric Power
Reinforcement of SNE's planning, maintenance, opera-
tional, and accounting and commercial capability
through the provision of about 105 man-months of
consultants' services.
The Project is expected to be complated by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for works under Part A.1 (a) shall be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of *the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
B.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
works included vnder Categories 1 and 2 of the table set forth in
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The


﻿- 17 -
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Vehicles for the Project may be procured through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluations and
comparisons of bids invited from a list of at least three quali-
fied suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with Part A of the Guidelines, excluding paragraphs 1.2 and 3.9
thereof.
2.   Materials and equipment other than vehicles for the Project
may be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least
two reliable local or international suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts for works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 18 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3         day of
198                          CE.
-  FOR SECRETARY


