Report No. PID8406
Project Information Document
Project Name:     Malawi-Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program III
Region            Africa
Sector             Finance
Project ID        MW-PE-50294
Borrower:         Government of MALAWI
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Finance
PO Box 30049
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Phone: 265-782199
Fax:  265-783109
Date this PID prepared:          November, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date:        February, 2000
Board Date:                      March, 2000
Background
Since the mid-1990s Malawi has been implementing wide ranging
reforms supported by two Bank adjustment credits, an IMF ESAF and bilateral
donor supported adjustment programs. The last IDA adjustment credit, the
Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP II), approved in
1998 advanced the adjustment agenda by reducing tariffs, prioritizing
Government expenditures, improving expenditure monitoring, undertaking
rationalization of Government functions, implementing privatization programs
and introducing regulatory reforms in the electricity and telecommunications
sectors. Under these programs, public expenditures on the social sectors
(health, education and community based development projects) increased from
16t of overall expenditures in 1993/94 to 289 of expenditures in 1998/99.
There has been a positive impact of these reforms on fiscal management
and growth. Despite the pressures of the general election of May 1999, the
Government implemented a budget with a domestic primary balance of 0.3w of
GDP, compared to a deficit of -4.4w in 1997/98. Consequently, while domestic
public debt increased by 3.5w of GDP in 1997/98, it fell by 4.2w of GDP in
1998/99. It is now expected to be reduced by more than 5t of GDP during the
current fiscal year, leading to a lowering of interest rates and increasing
private sector investment and activity.
GDP has grown by just over 5.5w annually in the last three years (1996
to 1998), despite the poor crop and mediocre performance of GDP in 1998 (3.1w
growth only). Recent GDP growth, thus, reflects the more diversified and
broad based economy especially in the smallholder sector, and the growth of
trade and services. Burley tobacco production by the small holder economy
has increased by five times between 1993 and 1999, implying a large infusion
of cash and incomes into the rural economy, and generating growth in the
service sector through raising demand. A non-traditional export industry has
emerged, with some 15 factories engaged in the exports of ready-made



garments, and employing around 7000 workers in peak periods, thereby making
it the largest manufacturing sector employer. The share of manufactured
exports in all exports has increased three-fold in the last seven years.
However, Malawi's growth and poverty reduction prospects remains
fragile with poor rates of domestic savings and private investment, which has
been shy in the wake of wide fluctuations in inflation and interest rates and
exchange rate instability of 1998. Recent data indicates that inflation and
interest rates are coming down as the Government implements its stabilization
policies. Sustained poverty reduction will require steady economic growth
rate of around 6t p.a. in the medium to long run. This, in turn, will need
consolidation of stabilization policies and persistence with structural
reforms that increases economic growth and efficiency.
Objectives
Against this background, the proposed credit, the Fiscal Restructuring
and Deregulation Program III, will support the Government's next phase of
structural reforms. This credit will, thereby, maintain the momentum of
policy reforms launched in 1994.    As in previous credits, the proposed
credit will support reforms in two areas:    (i) public sector management
through improving fiscal management and civil service efficiency; and (ii)
private sector development through implementing a major privatization program
and improving public sector and private sector coordination. The proposed
credit is expected to lead to poverty reduction in three ways: (i) by
creating the conditions for faster poverty reducing growth (of around 6%);
(ii) by increasing pro-poor orientation of public expenditure allocation
based on the findings from a 1999/2000 public expenditure review; (iii) in
the short term, through explicitly supporting the adoption and implementation
of a lean-season/vulnerable group targeted safety nets strategy.
Description
In the area of public sector management, the credit will support the
following Government activities: (i) A joint Government of Malawi/IDA public
expenditure review that will analyze current expenditure allocation and build
Government capacity to do so in future. This review will cost social sector
programs aimed to reduce poverty, identify funding gaps between resource
availability and requirements, the financing of these gaps through
expenditure prioritization; the review will give priority to public goods and
services, pro-poor goods (as identified through an expenditure incidence
analysis) and the need to obtain private sector financing as feasible; (ii)
the formal adoption and implementation of a detailed Safety Nets Strategy
that will identify the various safety nets and transfer instruments used by
the Government to support the chronically poor and vulnerable groups in
Malawi; (iii) introduce transparency and accountability in fiscal management
by making quarterly budget implementation reports publicly available; (iv)
improve public financial management by improving auditing and procurement
practices; and (v) improve civil service efficiency through rationalizing of
staffing and salaries.
In the area of private sector development, the credit will support the
following activities: (i) development of private ownership, efficiency and
competition by privatization and securing of strategic partners for Malawi
telecoms, commercial banks; and implementing the 12 month privatization plan
-2 -



for ADMARC; (ii) improving private sector and infrastructure performance by
identifying and clearing all arrears owed to the private sector and
utilities; improving surtax administration that enables prompt reimbursement
of surtax rebates owed to the private sector; and (iii) enhancing public and
private sector coordination, and policy implementation through the formation
of a small, implementation oriented public-private body that meets regularly
and with the highest authority to formulate and implement private sector
development policies.
Environmental Aspects
The recommended environmental assessment category is C. The proposed
operation does not have a direct environmental impact.
Implementation
The credit will be disbursed through the Reserve Bank of Malawi, in
four tranches to be disbursed between March 2000 and December 2000 upon
compliance of specific benchmarks. Simplified disbursement procedures under
adjustment credits will apply. The Ministry of Finance will be responsible
for coordinating the implementation of the reform program agreed under the
credit.
Financing: The amount of the proposed credit is US$ 70 million. As a balance
of payments operation, the proposed credit will finance 100t of the foreign
exchange costs of eligible imports.
Benefits and Risks:    The credit will assist in meeting Malawi's financing
requirements during FY 1999/00 and FY 2000/01. In addition, it will support
the implementation of key structural reforms needed to consolidate
macroeconomic stabilization and growth. The main risks are posed by Malawi's
capacity constraints, and the shocks from droughts and terms of trade losses.
A simultaneous technical assistance project will help to assist the
Government to implement policy measures supported by this credit.
Contact Point :          Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Task manager:  Ahmad Ahsan, Tel: 202 473-1672, Fax: 202 473-8179
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final operation.
- 3 -



