Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7419 MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 43.5 MILLION
(OF WHICH SDR 0.4 MILLION HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED FROM IDA REFLOWS)
FOR THE
THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
AND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.4 MILLION
FOR THE
THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 27, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 25, 2000)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK1 = US$ 0.0125
US$ 1 = MK80
SDR 1 = US$1.279
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
(as of July 1998)
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Darius Mans
Sector Manager: Philippe H. Le Houerou
Task Team Leader: Sudhir Chitale



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ADMARC             Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
BHA                Better Health for Africa
BOP                Balance of Payments
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CBM                Commercial Bank of Malawi
CMS                Central Medical Stores
COMESA             Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESCOM              Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi
FRDP               Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOM                Government of Malawi
HIPC               Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                International Development Agency
IDF                Institutional Development Fund
IFMIS              Integrated Financial Management Information System
IMF                International Monetary Fund
IPC                International Procurement Consultants
I-PRSP             Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP                Letter of Development Policy
MASAF              Malawi Social Action Fund
MDC                Malawi Development Corporation
MHC                Malawi Housing Corporation
MK                 Malawi Kwacha
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MPC                Malawi Posts Corporation
MPTC               Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
MRA                Malawi Revenue Authority
MTs                Metric Tons
MTEF               Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MTL                Malawi Telecommunications Limited
NEC                National Economic Council
NFRA               National Food Reserve Agency
NSNS               National Safety Net Strategy
OED                Operations Evaluation Department
ORT                Other Recurrent Transactions
PAR                Project Audit Report
PCC                Petroleum Control Commission
PCR                Project Completion Report
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
PRGF               Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD                Private Sector Development
RBM                Reserve Bank of Malawi
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SNIC               Safety Net Implementation Committee
SPA                Special Program of Assistance to Low-income Debt Distressed
Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa



TA                  Technical Assistance
TIP                 Targeted Input Program
TOR                 Terms of Reference
VAT                 Value Added Tax



MALAWI
THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
AND FRDP III TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Table of Contents
1.  INTRODUCTION ..............................................................        1
2.  BACKGROUND AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS ..................                     1
3.  THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM - THE FRAMEWORK ...........                        4
4.  POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..................                 6
A. Public Sector Management ..............................................................  7
B. Private Sector Development Reforms ......................................................  10
C. Safety Nets Strategy ..............................................................  13
5.  MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS, EXTERNAL DEBT AND FINANCIAL
REQUIREMENTS ..............................................................      14
6.  RELATIONSHIP TO THE CAS AND DESIGN OF THE CREDIT ........ ...........             16
7.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............................................................  18
8.  CONCLUSION ..............................................................         19
TABLES
TABLE 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS.                                                      2
TABLE 2: TRACK RECORD OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS.                                           3
TABLE 3: EXCEPTIONAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS .16
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY (POLICY MATRIX ATTACHED)
ANNEX 2: FRDP III TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
ANNEX 3: ORT OUTLAYS IN KEY SECTORS AS A SHARE OF TOTAL ORT OUTLAYS
ANNEX 4: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNEX 5: MALAWI AT A GLANCE TABLE
MAP: IBRD NO 29374
The FRDP III was prepared by an IDA team consisting of Sudhir Chitale (Task Team Leader), Watipaso Mkandawire
Aline Coudouel, Hassan Zaman, Lalita Moorty, Rose Thunyani (AFTIM1); Jorge Munoz (AFTRI), Elizabeth Adu
(LEGAL); Steve Gaginis (LOAAF); Subhash Dhingra (AFTUl), Stanley Hiwa, Donald Mphande, (AFMMW); Overall
supervision and guidance were provided by Darius Mans (Country Director), Philippe Le Houerou (Sector Manager) and
Robert Liebenthal (Resident Representative).






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION
PROGRAM CREDIT OF SDR 43.5 MILLION AND A PROPOSED THIRD FISCAL
RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT OF SDR 2.4 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR
43.5 million (US$55.6 million equivalent), including IDA Reflows of SDR 0.4 million (US$0.5
million). The proposed operation is made in support of policy reforms designed to accelerate
economic growth and reduce poverty. The proposed Credit will help deepen structural reforms
launched in 1995 to improve public sector management, promote private sector growth and
strengthen the social safety net. The memorandum also seeks approval for a complementary
technical assistance project, Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Technical
Assistance Project for SDR 2.4 million (US $3 million equivalent) to help Malawi implement
policy reforms, especially in the area of financial management, supported by this Credit (Annex 2
provides details).
1.2    The proposed Credit will also assist the Government maintain macroeconomic stability
by meeting financing requirements (gap) in the balance of payments (BOP) of around US$ 66
million in 2001' (see Section 5). In the fiscal accounts, the Credit will enable the Government to
maintain an overall non-interest expenditure level at about 24% of GDP. This would allow the
Government to protect outlays in key social sectors, while reducing domestic borrowing, thereby
helping to reduce inflation and interest rates.
1.3    This operation is being presented to the Board along with (i) a Progress Report on the
1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), (ii) HIPC decision point document, and (iii) an interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) along with a Joint (Bank/ Fund) Staff Assessment
(JSA). An IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), together with the HIPC decision
point document and the JSA is expected to be approved by the IMF board on December 21, 2000.
2.  BACKGROUND AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
2.1    Malawi has been implementing wide ranging reforms since the mid-1990s supported by
two Bank adjustment Credits, an IMF ESAF, and bilateral donor supported adjustment programs.
The first Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP I) approved in April 1996,
introduced the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in Malawi's budgeting, supported
tariff and surtax reforms, and launched civil service reforms. In private sector development, the
program helped to deregulate agricultural production (especially burley tobacco) and trade, and
launched the process of privatization through passage of the Public Enterprises (Privatization)
Act. The second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP II), approved in 1998,
continued the adjustment agenda by further reducing tariffs, prioritizing Government
expenditures, improving expenditure monitoring, undertaking rationalization of Government
1 After taking into account inflows from HIPC resources.



2
functions, introducing regulatory reforms in the electricity and telecommunications sectors, and
accelerating the process of privatization.
2.2    The Government's reform program has had mixed success. The structural reforms
implemented by the Government since 1994 have created a far more open and competitive
economy compared to the early nineties. The Government, however, has had less success in
restoring and sustaining macroeconomic stability. While the long term trends show definite
improvement, there have been sharp year-to-year fluctuations. Droughts in 1994/1995, slippages
in monetary and fiscal policies, and sporadic high levels of borrowing by parastatals have resulted
in periods of high inflation and interest rates. These have continued to stifle the growth prospects
of the small but potentially dynamic private sector.
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
1990-   1996    1997    1998    1999   2000*  1996-2000
1995
Average
GDP growth (constant, percent)         3.7     7.3     3.8     2.0     4.0     3.2        4.1
CPI(end-of-period, %)                 32.6     6.7    15.2    53.1    28.2    26.0       25.8
Treasury bill rate                      ..   30.8    18.3    33.0    42.9    45.7        34.1
Exchange rate (MK/$, End of period)     ..   15.3    21.2    43.9    46.4    77.3        40.8
Money and quasi money growth (%)     43.6    39.9      2.2    53.1    33.6    20.9       29.9
Current account balance (% of GDP)
Excluding grants                  -15.0   -12.1   -13.9   -11.6   -17.1   -15.2       -14.0
Including grants                    -8.4    -7.7   -10.5    -2.5    -8.3    -7.8       -7.4
Gross International Reserves (months of  1.7   3.0     2.6     4.0     4.2     3.9        3.5
imports)
Fiscal balance (percent of GDP)**
Excluding grants                  -14.0   -13.7   -14.2   -14.3   -11.6   -10.0       -12.8
Including grants                    -8.8    -9.1   -10.7    -8.1    -4.6    -2.9       -7.1
* Estimates
** Excludes arrears
2.3    As indicated in Table 1 above, there has been an improvemnent in Malawi's
macroeconomic situation during the 1990s. Compared with the early 1990s, real GDP growth has
accelerated. Moreover the structure of GDP has diversified, showing an increase in the share of
manufacturing. Since the early 1990s, the fiscal deficit and inflation have also been lower on
average. Finally, Malawi's external reserves have been higher. Currently they have reached a
level sufficient to cover about 3.9 months of imports, from only 1.7 months of imports on
average, in the early 1990s.
2.4    The improved economic performance in the latter half of the decade was, however,
marred by sharp year-to-year fluctuations in output and prices. GDP growth was marked by wide
swings ranging between 7.3% in 1996 to 2% in 1998. The exchange rate depreciated sharply in



3
1998 and Treasury bill rates have since then, remained high. Consumer price inflation registered a
marked increase in 1998 (53 percent up from 6.7 percent in 1996) driven by devaluation. In 1999
and the first half of 2000, inflation showed a declining trend reaching a low of 22% in May 2000.
Since June, inflation has begun to rise and there has been a sharp depreciation in the exchange
rate due to: (i) falling tobacco prices and quality, and rising oil prices; (ii) delays in donor
disbursements; (iii) devaluation of the South African Rand, and the Zimbabwean dollar; and, (iv)
slippage in monetary policy resulting in an expansion in money supply.
2.5    Chronic high inflation has been due to external factors as well as periodic slippages in the
control of the overall public sector deficit which has led to high levels of borrowing from the
Banking system and a money supply (M2) growth of around 30% p.a. Within the public sector
the central Government has not been a major borrower. In fact, over 1996-2000, the central
Government fiscal deficit after grants has been on average 7.1 % of GDP. This has largely been
financed by external resources; and Government borrowing from the banking system has been
small. Large borrowing from the banking system has mainly been carried out by public and quasi
public enterprises. In the last six to eight months, inflation has accelerated due to a rise in reserve
money growth, high oil prices as well as feed-through effects of the depreciation of the kwacha,
which has been exacerbated by declines in the value of the Rand and the Zimbabwean Dollar.
2.6    An assessment of the structural reforms carried out in the 2000 CAS Progress Report2
and the draft Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for the FRDP I and II, shows a mixed
picture. On the positive side, the reforms have improved the poverty focus of public expenditures
and have created a more favorable environment for the operation of the private sector. Since
1998, the Government has made an effort to prioritize expenditures. The share of expenditures
going to health and education has increased. (see Section 4). Increased resources, combined with
the policy of universal free primary education has resulted in a marked increase in gross
enrollment rates in primary education.
Table 2: Track Record of Structural Reforms
1995        1999
Trade and exchange rate regime
Maximum tariff rate on consumer goods                      45%         25%
Weighted average tariff rate                               19%         14 %
Export tax rate                                             8%          0 %
Share of non-traditional exports in total exports          13%         18 %
Status of exchange rate                               Controlled    Free float
Size of inter-bank foreign exchange market ($ millions)    526          725
Private sector development
Number of cellular phone operators                            1           2
Number of cellular telephones                             5,000       24,000
Number of internet service providers                          1          12
Number of commercial banks                                   2            4
Valuation of stock exchange (US$ millions)                   0          154
Agriculture
Number of registered tobacco clubs                        2,400       24,119
Burley tobacco production by small holders (kg millions)    21           90
Source: Preliminary HIPC Document, June 2000
2 Being presented to the Board in parallel to this operation.



4
2.7    Due to the external sector reforms implemented since 1996, Malawi now has a market
determined exchange rate, no export tax, and low average tariff rates of 14% (Table 2). In line
with the COMESA free trade agreement3 all duties on trade with COMESA partners have been
removed and further progress is being made in trade liberalization to implement commitments
made under the SADC, and the cross border initiative (CBI). A small ready made garmnents
export industry has recently emerged, employing around 7000 workers in peak periods. In
agriculture, the Government lifted restrictions on small holder tobacco production (by amending
the special Crops Act) and on private trading of fertilizer seeds and burley tobacco. As a result of
these measures, the production of burley tobacco by small holders has increased from 21 million
Kg in 1995 to almost 90 million Kg in 1999 thereby creating incomes amongst the rural poor. In
infrastructure, the Government has introduced a new regulatory framework and created new
regulatory agencies for power and telecoms. Currently there are two cellular operators and the
number of cell phones in Malawi has increased from only 5,000 in 1995 to 24,000 in 1999.
2.8    Progress was, however, less than expected on reforms which called for major institutional
change and required strong implementation capability. For instance, despite commitment on the
part of the Government and substantial technical assistance, the integration of the MTEF into the
budget process is proving to be difficult. Similarly, further progress needs to be made in
improving mechanisms for expenditure control. Progress on civil service reform remains modest.
Here, while the number of Ministries has been reduced and some Government services have been
contracted out, the problems of staff rationalization and salary compression have not been
resolved. Similarly in agriculture, the privatization of ADMARC activities are proving to be
more difficult than earlier envisioned. The liberalization of the trade regime and the lowering of
tariffs have improved the environment for the private sector, but poorly functioning infrastructure
and high interest rates continue to remain major constraints to private sector growth. In road
transport for instance the current regulations restrict the free movement of regional transport
operators throughout Malawi. Similarly, Air Malawi is overstaffed and inefficient.
Consequently, the costs of road and air transport are prohibitively expensive in a landlocked
country such as Malawi, affecting the competitiveness of the private sector.
3.  THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM - THE FRAMEWORK
3.1    The Government's program has been outlined in a number of Government documents
and has been discussed widely with stakeholders4. A new Minister of Finance deepened the fiscal
reform agenda by announcing a "Ten Point Plan" in March 2000. The plan includes measures to
enforce strict expenditure controls, proposes a program of cost recovery for items of exclusive
consumption, strengthens controls on parastatal borrowing and recommends greater expenditure
prioritization drawing on the joint Government/World Bank Public Expenditure Review (PER).
These measures were at the core of the 2000 Budget.
3.2    More recently, the Government has initiated the preparation of a Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). An Interim PRSP (I-PRSP) is being presented in parallel with this
operation. The I-PRSP describes in broad terms Government's medium term strategy to address
poverty, presents a road map and institutional arrangements to prepare a full PRSP.
3.3    The I-PRSP medium term strategy projects broad based and sustainable growth, anchored
in small holder agriculture and economic diversification through private sector development. The
3 This is limited to COMESA countries actually joining the FTA (i.e.) on a reciprocal basis.
4These include the Vision 2020, the Policy Analysis Initiative and more recently, the series of papers
presented at the May 2000 Consultative Group (CG).



5
I-PRSP emphasizes three key reasons for the persistence of poverty: macroeconomic instability,
insufficient prioritization of public expenditure towards poverty reducing and growth enhancing
areas and low level of private sector investment due to poor infrastructure, excessive public sector
borrowing and ownership of assets, and weak public institutions. In addition to focusing on these
three aspects, the I-PRSP stresses the need for a sustainable and cost effective social protection
system to protect the poor from the effects of policy reforms, and to assist those who cannot fully
participate in economic growth.
3.4   In line with the I-PRSP diagnosis, the Government's reform program has four main
elements.
First, create a supportive macroeconomnic framework, bring down inflation and interest
rates; and reduce public sector borrowing to avoid crowding out private investment.
Second, restructure public expenditures within an increasingly constrained resource
envelope and improve public sector management to improve the delivery of public
services to the poor. Improve the quality of education, the availability of affordable
health care, and increase efforts to combat HIV/AlDS are key elements of this strategy.
Third, create an enabling environment for private sector development including small
holder agriculture sector, by improving input supply, marketing infrastructure, clarifying
land tenure issues, creating a competitive framework and completing restructuring and
privatization transactions in power, telecoms and the financial sector.
Fourth, design and implement a comprehensive and cost effective safety net strategy.
The safety net strategy will provide the framework for the coordination of all programs.
In particular, the previously untargeted and fiscally unsustainable Starter Pack scheme
will be transformed to become a safety net program5, which targets the poor. In addition,
the National Food Reserve Agency will not be engaged in market intervention for food
price stabilization but be limited to its role as a strategic food reserve.
3.5    Macroeconomic Stabilization. At the heart of the Government's reform program is a
program of macroeconomic stabilization to bring down inflation and interest rates currently
running at about 30% p.a., and 45%6 respectively. Not only do such high rates stifle business
activity and therefore growth, they also have an adverse impact on poverty. The Government's
stabilization program is being supported by an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) which is being presented to the IMF board on December 21, 2000. The Government's
stabilization program targets a reduction of fiscal deficit (after grants), from 4.2% of GDP in
1999/2000, to 2.8% of GDP in 2000/2001 through strengthening tax collection efforts, reducing
non priority expenditures and implementing cost recovery measures announced in the 2000/2001
Budget. A market determined exchange rate would be maintained and broad money (M2) growth
would be reduced from 21% in 2000 to 17% in 2001 to be achieved by restricting reserve money
growth.
3.6    The proposed Credit is a single tranche operation designed to support the Government's
reform program described above. In addition to the actions already implemented we have broad
agreement with the Government on the key elements of the medium term reform program in the
context of the proposed Credit, other bank operations7 and the HIPC completion point triggers.
5 See Section 4,C,(ii)
6 This is the T-bill rate at the last auction held in October. All other rates move with this rate.
7 Such as the ongoing Privatization and Utility Reform Project.



6
The main elements of the medium term reform program which the Government is committed to
implement are described in the policy matrix (attached to Annex 1, the Letter of Development
Policy) and include: continued prioritization of public expenditures, expanding cost recovery for
public services, completion of the reform of procurement system, Auditor and Accountant
General's offices, increasing the availability of teachers and paramedical staff, completing the
privatization of Malawi Telecoms (MTL) and Commercial Bank of Malawi, and implementing
the National Safety Net Strategy (NSNS).
3.7    While we will continue to assist the Government in making progress on the broad reform
agenda (defined above in para. 3.4), the proposed Credit is selective. It is focused on a few
important areas where a core set of actions have already been implemented. Section 4 describes
the full set of actions and the TA program supported by the Credit. The most important of these
actions were:
*  Presentation of a highly focussed 2000/2001 Budget in July reflecting the findings of
the ongoing GovernmentlIDA PER.
*  Significant progress in the liberalization of telecoms and petroleum import/retail
markets.
*  Adoption of a National Safety Net Strategy (NSNS) including a redesign of the
Starter Pack program and a reorientation of the National Food Reserve
Agency(NFRA).
*  Key decisions to separate the financial management and auditing functions within
Government by passing new legislation and reform of the procurement system.
4.    POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROPOSED CREDIT
4.1    There are three main areas where specific actions are supported by the proposed Credit.
The discussion that follows outlines the main issues, the broad strategy of reform, progress
achieved by Board presentation, and subsequent actions. A summary of the reform is given in the
policy matrix (Annex 1).
Improve Public Sector Management
* Improve the allocation of public expenditures in line with the recommendations of the
PER.
* Improve the transparency and monitoring of public expenditures.
* Improve tax efficiency by operationalizing the Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA).
Promote Private Sector Development
* Liberalize telecoms.
* Liberalize petroleum import/retail marketing.
* Liberalize the financial sector.
Create a Safety Net
* Design, create an institutional structure for implementation and begin implementing a
National Safety Net Strategy (NSNS).
* Transform the Starter Pack program into a Targeted Input Program (TIP) and incorporate
it into the NSNS.



7
* Reform the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) and limit its role to that of a strategic
grain reserve engaged in disaster and relief operations.
A.    Public Sector Management
(i)   Improving the allocation of public expenditures
4.2    During the 1990's, there has been a major shift in the pattern of expenditures.
Expenditures on health and education have increased from 16.2% of overall expenditures in
1993/1994 to 22.7% of overall expenditures in 1999/2000. Their share in discretionary recurrent
expenditures has increased from 22.7% in 1993/1994 to 34.5% in 1999/2000. Increased
resources, combined with the policy of universal free primary education has resulted in a marked
increase in gross enrollment rates in primary education. Incidence analysis shows that the
distribution of public education resources, especially in primary education, has become more pro-
poor. Road maintenance allocations have also improved significantly, from $ 1.6 million in
1994/1995 to $ 6.8 million in 1997/1998 and to almost $ 24 million in the 2000/2001 Budget.
4.3    Despite this progress, much remains to be done to improve the quality of public
expenditures. Currently, public expenditures are spread thinly over a wide range of activities
leading to a sub-optimal allocation of resources and a reduced developmental impact. Tertiary
and boarding education, tertiary health care, foreign travel and embassies are just a few activities,
where Government support needs to be scaled down in order to fund priority activities.
Moreover, the MTEF needs to be strengthened to improve the allocation of funds according to the
various prioritization exercises that have taken place when funds are released through the cash
budget system.
4.4    Board Conditions Met: Consequently, the proposed Credit is supporting a joint
Government-IDA Public Expenditure Review (PER) process designed to provide inputs into
budget formulation and the improvement of service delivery. The results of the ongoing PER
have been incorporated into the 2000/2001 Budget presented to the Parliament in June this year
as indicated below:
*  One of the problems identified by the PER was the shortage of operations and
maintenance expenditures 'for critical public services. In the 2000/2001 Budget, the
share of ORT outlays in key sectors has been increased. These include ORT outlays
in education, health, agriculture, roads - through the creation of the Road Fund and
community development. (Annex 3).
*  The allocation of medical drugs and medical supplies has been increased to $1.17 per
capita to approximate the Better Health in Africa (BHA) norms of $ 1.25 per capita.
*  The allocation for boarding in the Conventional Secondary Schools (CSS) has been
reduced from 16% so 9% of total secondary school recurrent expenditure, and the
saved resources allocated to qualitative inputs such as teaching materials.
*  The announcement of cost recovery measures in tertiary education and introduction
of cost recovery measures for other items of exclusive consumption such as
passports, visas and licenses.
*  The creation of a data base for development projects (expanding the coverage of aid -
financed projects currently not included in the development budget) indicating their
s Budgeted under the category "other recurrent transactions (ORT)".



8
status of implementation. All new projects featuring in the 2000/2001 Budget are
restricted to high priority areas on the basis of the PER. Specific low-priority projects
have been dropped or suspended in the 2000/2001 Budget.
4.5    Subsequent Actions: The TA Credit accompanying this adjustment Credit would extend
the public expenditure dialogue by providing technical assistance in the prioritization of the
development budget, carrying out a survey of the quality of public services and the extent of
leakage through a flow of funds survey. In addition, the Government has commnitted to continue
the expenditure restructuring by making adequate allocations to achieve the following targets
over the next two to three years.9
*  Maintain the shares of education and health sectors in the discretionary'° recurrent
budget at 23% and 13%, respectively.
*  Make adequate budgetary allocation to train at least 6,000 teachers per annum and
270 paramedical personnel."
(ii)   Improving the Transparency and Monitoring of Public Expenditures
4.6    Expenditure management and control has been a difficult issue in Malawi. Since 1994,
the Government has faced two major fiscal crises caused by runaway Government expenditures
and borrowing. Since mid-1998 Government has strengthened expenditure monitoring and
control procedures. Detailed expenditure reports are prepared and presented to the Cabinet on a
monthly basis, reporting detailed information on salaries and goods and services expenditures by
Ministries, as well as expenditures on identified priority items. In the case of expenditure control,
procedures for transferring funds across budget categories have been reinforced, and the Special
Budget Committee reviews requests for extra-budgetary expenditures before approval.
4.7    Despite these positive developments, three problems remain. First, there is a lack of
fiscal transparency. Expenditure outcomes are not publicly available until the end of the fiscal
year, thereby providing no warning of external shocks until it is too late. Second, GOM
monitoring of parastatal finances is weak. Parastatals are often saddled with long overdue arrears
from Government agencies, thereby eroding their financial positions and reducing their operation
capabilities. Third, there is a need for measures to strengthen existing expenditure control
procedures to avoid recurrence of expenditure overruns.
4.8    Board Conditions Met: In the context of this year's budget, the Government has
implemented the following reforms which will improve expenditure management and enhance
fiscal transparency.
* The Government has made publicly available (on the Internet) selected data on
revenues, expenditures and financing for the central Government and on core
programs, for key line Ministries. These reports are being produced within a month
of the end of each quarter and posted on the website of the Ministry of Finance. The
reports for the quarter ending September 2000 have been placed on the web.'2
9 These targets have also been agreed in the context of reaching the HIPC floating completion point.
10 This is total recurrent expenditure less interest payments.
" Includes nurse technicians, medical assistants, and radiography assistants.
12 In addition to the fiscal transparency measures the Government is also publishing the minutes of the
monthly Monetary Policy Committee meeting, announce monthly monetary targets and publish data to
assess performance against these targets.



9
* The Government has strengthened the monitoring of parastatal finances. A new
parastatal monitoring unit has been created in the Ministry of Finance and quarterly
financial statements on five major parastatals ( ADMARC, ESCOM, MDC, Air
Malawi and MHC) are made publicly available on the internet within three months
of the end of each quarter.
* Under the 10 point plan, as of July 1, 2000, the Government has put in place new
rules to avoid accumulation of arrears. These rules require controlling officers in
line ministries to maintain an up-to-date expenditure and commitment register.
Ministries which do not submit the commitment and expenditure returns in time
would not be funded. All ministries and departments now can plan their
expenditures on the basis of a quarterly budget allocation provided by the MOF.
The actual commitments however, are restricted to a monthly Credit Ceiling
Authority (CCA), which is generally one third of the quarterly ceilings.'3
4.9    Subsequent Actions: During 2001, the Government will continue to improve the timely
reporting of budgetary and parastatal data and make it public. By 2002, the Government will also
complete the introduction of the Integrated Financial Management and Information System
(IFMIS) in all the main ministries; and by then, all the expenditure data will be produced by the
IFMIS. Towards this, the Government has appointed contractors to begin implementing the
IFMIS in four pilot ministries. TA for this activity is being provided under the Second IDA
Institutional Development Project.
4.10   Audit Reforms and a Reform of the Finance and Audits Act: Like many other
developing countries, Malawi suffers from the weak capacity and authority of the office of the
Auditor-General (the Supreme Audit Institution, SAI). Malawi's SAI lacks independent authority
and is inadequately funded to carry out its mandate.
4.11   Board Conditions Met: The Cabinet has approved the separation of the auditing and
financial management functions and the establishment of an independent Audit Board which will
have oversight over the Auditor General's office.
4.12   Subsequent Actions: The Ministry of Finance will be principally responsible for
implementing the above decisions. Over the next two years, drawing on the accompanying TA
Credit, the Government will design and pass new legislation and implement the institutional
reform, which will also address the issue of adequately funding the SAI. A description of the
proposed TA, is presented as Annex 2.
4.13   Procurement Reforms: The value of public procurement in Malawi, including that by
parastatals, is currently worth around 10% of GDP. But the procurement system is inefficient
(unable to deliver items cost effectively and in time) and vulnerable to fraud and corruption. The
problems affecting procurement have been catalogued in detail in a 1996 study conducted by
International Procurement Consultants (IPC) financed under a previous IDA operation.
4.14   Board Conditions Met: The IPC study has now been discussed extensively with
stakeholders. Cabinet has approved the recommendations of the IPC study and has directed the
Ministry of Finance to implement the decision.
13 The CCA system introduced this year is a major innovation under which, the advanced cash funding of
spending units is replaced by an indicative credit ceiling, using which the RBM (daily) reimburses
commercial banks to the extent the funds are actually used (drawn) by spending units. Unlike the old
system the cash outflow is restricted to actual use thereby resulting in considerable savings to the
Government in interest costs.



10
4.15   Subsequent Actions: The Government will repeal the existing stores instruction and
introduce the new public procurement act based on the UNICITRAL model law on procurement.
The new legislation will establish a new procurement code and a new procurement authority,
which will decentralize procurement to the purchasing agencies. The Procurement Authority
would be responsible for providing oversight, ex-post review of procurement decisions and
training. Under the proposed Credit, technical assistance will be provided to develop and
implement an institutional development program to create and strengthen the new procurement
authority. A detailed description of the proposed TA is presented in Annex 2.
4.16   While the procurement system is being overhauled, through the TA described above,
there are two areas in which the Government is committed to take the following actions over the
next two to three years in the context of the HIPC.'4
*  A reform of the Central Medical Stores (CMS), which procures and distributes
medicines for the public health system will be carried out on the basis of the
considerable work already carried out with the assistance of the EU.
*  An innovation in procuring primary school textbooks will be carried out whereby
donor supplied textbooks will be prepackaged for each school by the donor, prior to
delivery in the country.'5
(iii) Improving Tax Efficiency
4.17   The objective of reforms in this area is to increase the efficiency of the tax system while
protecting revenues. Average weighted tariffs have decreased from 19% (in 1996) to about 14%
(in 1998) while surtax (which credits taxes paid on inputs, like a VAT) rates have been
rationalized and the base has been extended. However, improvement in tax administration is
required in two areas: (i) in ensuring that the tax authority has adequate motivation to sustain
revenue collection through better incentives; and (ii) reducing the delays in reimbursement of the
surtax rebate (for zero-rated items and for goods used in the production of exports) which have
lengthened to several months during 1999, thereby nullifying the incentives provided by the
surtax system.
4.18   Board Conditions Met: To improve tax administration, the Government has set up the
Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA) as an independent tax agency under an Act of Parliament.
The agency is now operational and is allowed to hold back 1.65% of tax revenues towards its
operational expenses. Additional revenues are also provided to cover funds required to ensure the
prompt (within 30 days) payment of surtax refund - which has been a major issue with small and
medium scale businesses. Staff have now been appointed for the MRA with performance based
compensation and service rules which are separate from the rest of the civil service.
4.19   Subsequent Actions: would involve providing further training to the MRA staff, to
monitor the tax receipts and ensure a reduction in delays for the payment of surtaxes to small
businesses.
B.    Private Sector Development Reforms
4.20   The Public Enterprises (Privatization) Act passed in 1996 laid the legal basis for
implementing the privatization program of Government assets and the use of privatization
proceeds. The Government approved a Divestiture Sequence Plan (DSP) for 100 public
14 These targets have been agreed in the context of reaching the HIPC floating completion point.
15 This will be carried out in close collaboration with the CIDA.



11
enterprises in 1997. As of December 1999, about 40 of these 100 enterprises were privatized and
the balance has been slated for privatization in a phased manner in accordance with the DSP.
Supported by the previous adjustment Credit and the Privatization and Utility Reform Project, the
Government has also initiated preparations for privatization of major public assets in
telecomnmunications and commercial banking and the liberalization of petroleum import and
marketing.
(i)    Telecommunications Reforms
4.21   Prior to the initiation of the present round of reforms the telecommunication services in
Malawi were provided by the Malawi Post and Telecommunication Corporation (MPTC), a
Government monopoly. Institutional and management weaknesses coupled with inadequate
public investment had led to extremely low penetration rates and poor performance of the
telecommunications services in Malawi.
4.22   To improve this performance, the Government of Malawi has undertaken extensive
reforms of the telecommunications sector and its regulatory framework. The Communications
Policy and the Communications Act No. 41 were passed on November 30, 1998. The Act
provides for an independent regulatory body and for private sector participation in all
telecommunications services (mobile, data, Internet, and paging) with the temporary exception of
long distance and international voice telephony. The Government has made progress towards
finding a strategic partner to take at least 30% ownership of Malawi telecoms to inject both new
capital and know-how into the sector by the end of 2000. With this objective, the Government
(through the Privatization Commission) appointed investment and legal advisers in October 1999,
to assist in securing a strategic partner for Malawi Telecommunications Lirnited.
4.23   Board Conditions Met: The core set of actions implemented by the Government to
extend the ongoing reform are:
*  The Post and Telecommunications sections of the MPTC have been legally separated into
two entities. Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL) has been set up as a company
under the Companies Act, and Malawi Posts (MPC) as a new Corporation under the
Communications Act of 1998. A business plan for MPC has been approved by the
Government and a specific allocation for a subsidy to MPC has been made in the budget.
* Registration for internet services has been liberalized and 15 Internet Service Providers
have been registered to date.
* In the context of finding a strategic partner for MTL, the Government is further
liberalizing the existing regulatory framework. The Government has taken a policy
decision for: limited liberalization in the provision of basic voice telephony services that
would enable the Government to invite a second national operator; and allowing all
licensees to provide international telecommunications services.
* A request for expression of interest for the purchase and subscription of shares in MTL
has been published.
* The Government, plans to issue an information memorandum, containing a profile of
MTL and detailed information about transaction procedures and structure, consistent with
the policy framework mentioned above. Issuing of the information memorandum will be
a condition of effectiveness.



12
4.24   Subsequent Actions: These include the conclusion of the sale of Malawi
Telecommunications Limited during 2001 and preparing for a full liberalization of all services by
removing all entry restrictions on long distance and international voice telephony by 2003.
(ii)   Liberalization of Petroleum Imports
4.25   The objective of reforms in this area is to privatize the importation and distribution of
petroleum and restrict the role of Petroleum Control Commission (PCC) to that of an industry
regulator. Prior to May 1999, PCC imported all of Malawi's petroleum requirements.
4.26   Board Conditions Met: In line with the Government policy, an association of five
private sector companies (Petroleum Importers Limited) has started importing all of the country's
petroleum requirements. The Government has restructured the state-owned importer, PCC, by
separating it into a purely regulatory agency (which will retain the name PCC), and establishing a
new company ORTEX to take over the non-regulatory functions of the PCC including oil storage.
4.27   As a part of the liberalization of the sector, the Government has adopted a pricing
formula which adjusts retail prices in response to movements in the world prices, exchange rate
and other macroeconomic variables. The formula is administered by a private sector committee
under the chairmanship of the Malawi Confederation of Chambers of Commerce and Industries.
4.28   Subsequent Actions: The Government will carry out a petroleum supply study to
examine the further liberalization of the petroleum sector. The Government will ensure that
ORTEX will not engage in parallel petroleum imports and privatize it by the middle of 2002 in
line with the current Government strategy.
(iii)   Financial Sector Liberalization
4.29   Malawi's banking sector is dominated by two main banks that own 90% of banking
sector assets. It is partly this market power which enables them to make profits of around 6% of
assets in 1997, and contributes to the large spread between deposit and lending rates (18 % in
1999).
4.30   There have been major developments in the financial services sector in the last four
years. Three new banks, have opened, and a stock market listing eight companies is functioning.
The Government is inviting new private sector interest in the banks by offering up to 51%
ownership of the Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM) to a strategic partner. Government has
sold some of the shares of ADMARC in National Bank of Malawi and has allowed the Press
Corporation to increase its holding from it current level of 40% to above 50%. With its
withdrawal from the CBM, prudential measures to prevent abuse of its high market power are
under discussion. A draft review of the financial sector regulatory framework with detailed
recommendations on strengthening prudential regulation has been prepared with IDA assistance.
This is currently being reviewed by the RBM.
4.31   Board Conditions Met: In line with the overall privatization strategy in the sector, the
Government has offered the CBM for sale to a strategic partner in January 2000 by issuing the
information memorandum. Discussions are underway with prospective partners. Subsequent
Actions will include the conclusion of the sale of CBM and the introduction of a new
comprehensive financial sector regulatory framework which will also cover non-bank financial
institutions.
16 Trhe formula works on a 5% landed cost /exchange rate fluctuation trigger.



13
C.    Safety Nets Strategy
4.32   While the Government of Malawi has a number of safety net programs, these programs
have not been integrated into a coordinated safety nets strategy. This leads to waste, duplication
of effort and gaps in coverage.
(i) Adopt, institutionalize and begin implementing a National Safety Net Strategy
(NSNS)
4. 33 The Government is planning to finance only some of the programs of the NSNS, such as
the Targeted Input Program (TIP) and some emergency operations. The remaining programs
would be financed by grants from donors. The NSNS will be used by the Government as a tool to
coordinate strategy and prioritize scarce budgetary resources as well as the considerable donor
assistance for safety nets. These will include the activities of the NFRA as well as the programs
operated by the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF). The Government has newly created a
Safety Net Implementation Committee (SNIC) to implement the NSNS. Working under the
overall guidance of the National Economic Council (NEC), the SNIC will select safety net
programs to be implemented on the basis of their contribution to, and coherence with NSNS. The
criteria and procedures for the selection of programs by the committee are being developed.
4.34   Board Conditions Met: In May this year, the Government adopted the NSNS. The
institutional arrangements for the implementation of the NSNS are now in place. Government has
informed all stakeholders of the adoption of the NSNS and asked line ministries, NGOs and
donors to submit program proposals for 2000/2001.
4.35   Subsequent Actions: The SNIC will carry out the prioritization and rationalization of
old and new programs in line with the medium term objectives set out in the NSNS. A
monitoring and evaluation system for the overall strategy will be set up and implemented.
(ii) Incorporate the Starter Pack Program into the National Safety Net Strategy
4.36   The Starter Pack Scheme, the largest safety net program, operated by the Government
over the past two agricultural seasons, provided free packs of fertilizer and seeds to all small
holder farmers in rural areas. In the 1999/2000 season, the scheme covered 2.9 million
households. The scheme as initially conceived had multiple objectives. The scheme aimed at
increasing national food production, increasing household food security, and improving soil
fertility and diet by promoting legume crops. The Starter Pack scheme was a relatively efficient
way to transfer resources to farmers, in the sense that the value of benefits generated per
household was about 50% higher than the cost of the inputs involved. However, it was a high
cost, universal program not targeted at the poor. The scheme cost about MK 1.2 billion in
1999/2000, equivalent to $27 million. The program was therefore, not a fiscally sustainable cost
effective tool to alleviate poverty. Moreover the scheme also created dependency, and distortions
in the fertilizer and seeds markets.
4.37   Recognizing these shortcomings, in the face of strong political opposition, the
Government has decided to clarify the objectives of the program and transform it into a safety net
program, targeted to the poor. The resulting Targeted Input Program (TIP) has therefore become
one of the key components of the NSNS. To make it fiscally sustainable, for the year 2000/2001,
the Government has reduced the size of the program and target the poorest 1.5 million
households. The total cost of the program is expected to be around $10 million, of which only $2
million are expected to come from the Government's budget and the rest are expected to be raised
as grants from donors.



14
4.38   Board Conditions Met: Government has adopted the design of the TIP (targeted to 1.5
million households) and has reduced the allocation in 2000/2001 Budget to only $2 million from
about $27 million in 1999/2000. Under the targeting scheme, packs of fertilizer and seeds will be
distributed to all districts in proportion to the population. Within each district, area and village the
distribution will be targeted by taskforces comprising politicians, traditional and religious leaders,
the chief executive of the District Assembly and extension workers. Instructions have been given
to district officials and the local leaders to guide them in the selection of beneficiaries.
Information has been provided to the population on the characteristics of the TIP and the changes
from the old Starter Pack scheme.
4.39   Subsequent Actions: The Government has contracted TA on a grant basis to improve
targeting mechanisms for the distribution across districts for future seasons. Government will also
ensure that the TIP is gradually reduced in line with the NSNS, in parallel with the
implementation of the other programs of the strategy.
(iii) Operations of the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA)
4.40  In response to food security concerns, the NFRA was formed in 1999 as an autonomous
body, to act as a Strategic Grain Reserve in times of drought. However NFRA was also engaged
in maize purchases and sales to stabilize maize prices. A number of studies carried out by the
Government during 1999 showed that the objective of maize price stabilization - as stated in the
NFRA deed - was unachievable and expensive, given that Malawi is part of a large regional
maize market. The Government has therefore decided to modify the operations of the NFRA,
limit its role to disaster and relief operations, thereby making it an important component of the
National Safety Net Strategy.
4.41   Board Conditions Met: First, the Government has amended the trust deed of the
NFRA to narrow its mandate from one of being engaged in stabilization of maize prices to being
exclusively engaged in disaster and relief operations. The NFRA has therefore become an
important component of the National Safety Net. Towards enabling NFRA to meet this role in a
fiscally sustainable manner, the Government has decided to limit maize stocks to be held by
NFRA to 60,000 MTs. Tenders have been invited from private traders in April this year to sell
excess stocks. So far, out of the nearly 122,000 MTs of maize stocks currently held by NFRA,
about 7,000 MTs have been sold to Mozambique and nearly 65,000 MTs have been contracted to
be sold to Kenya. No new borrowing will be carried out by the NFRA, and the Government will
appropriately capitalize the NFRA with the assistance of the international donor community.
4.42   Subsequent Actions: These will include provision of TA by IDA in coordination with
the EU, to design and implement a program to strengthen the NFRA to develop it into a manager
of strategic grain reserve in line with the amended trust deed. To carry out this program, the
Government has already appointed a senior management team for the NFRA.
5.    MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS, EXTERNAL DEBT AND FINANCING
REQUIREMENTS
5.1    Real Sector and BOP Prospects: Malawi's medium-term macroeconomic prospects are
based on the assumptions of: (i) the sustained implementation of the economy-wide reform
program initiated in 1995, supported by IDA and the IMF; (ii) the availability of concessional
bilateral aid resources in line with past trends; and, (iii) access to resources from the HIPC
initiative. Even under these assumptions, Malawi' s economic prospects are modest. GDP is
expected to grow by 3- 4% p.a. during 2001-2003, accelerating to 4-5% p.a. beyond the year



15
2003. With population growing by about 2.0% p.a., the projected GDP growth would result in a
per capita consumption growth of between 1- 2% p.a. over the next five years.
5.2    Malawi's modest growth prospects could be attributed to both external factors as well as
policy challenges. Tobacco, which accounts for 60% of Malawi's exports faces a secular decline
in prices. Tobacco prices have fallen by 13% in real terms over last ten years and are expected to
fall by another 6% in the next five years. Economic difficulties in Malawi's traditional trading
partners - Zimbabwe and South Africa adversely affect the prospects for non-traditional exports.
Malawi imports all its oil and is thus vulnerable to changes in world oil prices. Further, being a
landlocked country, Malawi faces high transport costs for its imports, adversely affecting its
competitiveness. The most serious factor affecting Malawi' s prospects is the impact of
HIV/AIDS. As of 1999, nearly 16% of adults have HTV/AIDS'7. In 1999, there were nearly
70,000 deaths due to AIDS and there were nearly 250,000 orphans. This affects the economy
through lower labor productivity, reduced private and public savings, lower capital accumulation,
as public expenditures are diverted to meet the growing health needs. Studies' of the impact of
AIDS estimate that at the current prevalence rates, GDP would be reduced by between 1- 2% p.a.
over the medium term.
5.3    Malawi's traditional exports are projected to grow on average by about 3% p.a. in real
terms over 2001-2004 while the non-traditional exports are projected to grow by 6% p.a. The
import elasticity is projected to be about 0.8 over 2001-2004, which is in line with the long term
trends in Malawi. Net services balance is expected to marginally improve mainly due to a
reduction in interest payments. As a result of these trends, the current account deficit (excluding
grants) is expected to decline from 17.6 percent of GDP in 1999, to about 11.2 percent of GDP in
the year 2000 where it will remain stable at that level throughout the projection period.
5.4   In 1999, Malawi's ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services was
18% and the NPV of debt/GDP ratio (on an accrual basis) was 262%. This made Malawi a
highly indebted country from a HIPC standpoint. Malawi is therefore eligible for debt relief
amounting to 42% of its debt, which would bring its baseline NPV of debt/GDP ratio down to
150 over medium term. Baseline projections show that without access to the HIPC Malawi
would continue to be highly indebted. By 2004, Malawi's debt/exports and NPV of debt/exports
ratios would come down marginally to 15.8 and 260 respectively. With the HIPC access,
however, these would be reduced by 42% bringing them down to sustainable levels.
5.5    Financing requirements. Baseline projections without HIPC (Table3) show that
Malawi's gross financing requirements over the next three years 2001-2003 amount to about
$270 million p.a. These are to be met by the projected regular financing'9 of about US$ 200
million p.a. This means that Malawi requires exceptional financing (financing gap over and
above regular financing), on average of about US$70 million p.a. during 2001-2003. For the next
year, 2001, the exceptional financing requirement is estimated to be about $105 million. For
2001, as per the current timetable, about $39 million could come from HIPC relief, and the
remaining $66 mnillion could be met from the proposed adjustment Credit, the AfDB and as
possible cofinancing from other multilateral and bilateral donors.
17 UNAIDS, Malawi, "Epidemiological Fact Sheet, 2000 Update".
18 World Bank Mimeo, Rene Bonnel, ' What makes an economy HIV resistant", July 2000 and other
internal Bank documents.
'9 Regular financing is defined as the currently planned bilateral and multilateral project and BOP support.
Excludes the Bank adjustment lending.



16
Table 3: Exceptional Financing Requirements ($ Million)
1999    2000      2001    2002    2003  2001-2003
Average
Requirements                             -279    -250      -330    -238    -249        -272
Current account deficit (minus interest)  -282    -232     -211     -176    -174        -187
Interest payments                         -26     -31       -30      -29      -29       -29
Amortization                              -39      -58      -58      -59      -65        -60
Other capital flows *                      67       71      -31       26       18         4
Financed by:
Regular financing **                      279      249      226      195      183        201
Grants                                  157      128       121      92       99        104
Loans                                   123      121      105      103       84         97
BOP suppon                             16       31       23       43       35         34
Projects                              107       90       82       60       49         63
Exceptional financing (gap)                 0        0      -105     -43      -66        -71
Availability of HIPC resources                             39       40       60         39
Financing gap after HIPC relief               ..           -66      -3       -6        -32
Memo item
GDP growth (% per annum)                4.0      3.2       3.0      4.0     4.0        3.7
* Includes change in intemational reserves, net FDI and other capital movements
** Includes commnitted project and BOP support
5.6    Availability of these additional resources is also crucial for the Governments' fiscal
program which includes the outlays for health and education to a level consistent with its growth
and poverty alleviation objectives. Fiscal projections show that for 2001 the availability of $55
million of the adjustment loan will allow: (i) average non-interest total public expenditures to be
maintained at 24% of GDP during 2001-2003; (ii) reduce the overall budget deficit (excluding
grants) by 3.8 percentage points of GDP by 2003 from the 2000 level of about 10% of GDP; and
(iii) reduce domestic debt by about 12 percentage points of GDP over 2001-2003, which is crucial
for a reduction in inflation.
6.   RELATIONSHIP TO THE CAS AND DESIGN OF THE CREDIT
6.1    Relationship with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): The last CAS for Malawi
was discussed at the Board on August 27, 1998 (IDA/R98-172). A CAS Progress Report is being
presented to the Board in parallel with this operation. A new CAS will follow the completion of
a full PRSP expected in June 2001. The analysis in the CAS Progress Report shows that although
Malawi's progress against the base case indicators of the 1998 CAS has been slower than
expected, the Government remains committed to the reform agenda and has recently taken actions
described in detail in Section 4, to improve outcomes. Over the longer term, Malawi has made
consistent progress since 1994, when state regulation of the economy was still pervasive and
democratic governance institutions were non-existent. But it has been difficult to transform the
economy. Malawi' s small size, long history of monopolistic practices, and limited competition
has made large privatizations difficult, with few new buyers willing to invest in the country.



17
6.2    Under the August 1998 CAS, the low case would be triggered, by inflation above 20%.
It is, however important to recognize that the inflation trigger was intended to be a proxy for
slippages in monetary policy. While some slippages have occurred, the country is now back on
track with an IMF PRGF program. Further, some of the inflationary pressures were not within its
control. In the last six to eight months in particular, inflation has resulted from high oil prices and
feed-through effects of kwacha devaluations. The devaluations have been the result of terms of
trade shocks and regional pressures such as declines in the value of the Rand and the
Zimbabwean Dollar. All of these factors were outside Governments' control. Progress in the
reform program and the Governments' efforts since the introduction of the ten point plan indicate
that Malawi continues to be in the base case.
6.3   The 1998 CAS overestimated capacity to implement the reform program, it is therefore
not surprising that the program is only partially completed. To date, the Board has approved one
adjustment operation and four projects against a proposed program of two or three adjustment
operations and nine projects. The last adjustment operation, the Second Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Program (FRDP 2), was approved in December 1998 ($92 million) and is fully
disbursed. The four approved projects include Population and Family Planning ($5 million),
Road Maintenance ($30 million), and Social Action Fund 2 ($66 million) in FY99; and
Privatization and Utility Reform ($28.9 million) in FY00. All of these projects currently have a
satisfactory rating, except Road Maintenance, where recent improvement in implementation
progress should result in upgrading to a satisfactory rating in the next few months. We therefore
believe that with continuing progress in the reform program, and satisfactory ratings for FRDP 1
and 220, Malawi deserves the critically needed support in the form of the proposed adjustment
operation, FRDP 3. FRDP 3 is likely to be the only operation presented for Malawi in FY01.
6.4    Design: This Credit is one of a series of adjustment Credits designed to support the
ongoing policy reform process. The reform program developed in the context of the FRDP I and
II and other Government documents represents a coherent medium term reform strategy. Within
this medium term reform process, the Credit supports reforms in selected areas which are crucial
to growth and poverty alleviation. In each of these areas, the Credit supports a specific set of
actions which have been implemented by Board presentation. These would be followed by
subsequent program of technical assistance and institutional reform over the next year and
beyond. The actions implemented by Board presentation and the subsequent actions are
described in the policy matrix attached to Annex 1.
6.5    A complementary Technical Assistance Project, outlined in Annex 2, will provide the
necessary technical support, training and equipment to implement policy reforms in: (i)
implementing the findings of the public expenditure review; (ii) implementing reforms in the
areas of accounting, and auditing; and, (iii) implementing a reform of the procurement system.
6.6    Disbursement and Implementation Arrangements: The proposed FRDP III Credit
will follow the Bank's new simplified disbursement procedures for structural adjustment credits.
It will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program and not tied to
any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed. Once the Credit is
approved by the Board, and becomes effective the proceeds of the first tranche will be deposited
by IDA in an account at the Reserve Bank of Malawi at the request of the Borrower. If, after
depositing in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes as defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) return the
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA.
The administration of this Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Although
an audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits
20 The progress under FRDP 1 and 2 is discussed in Section 2



18
at any time. Implementation of the subsequent actions under the program will be monitored by
the an inter-ministerial committee of officials coordinated by the Ministry of Finance.
7.     BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.1    Benefits: The proposed Credit is expected to reduce poverty in three ways. First, the
Credit will help to create the conditions for accelerating growth by promoting private sector
investment and improve productivity by privatization and better regulation of infrastructure such
as telecoms and the financial sector. In the short run, the Credit will improve the environment for
growth and welfare by reducing uncertainty, lowering inflation rates, interest rates and
stabilizing exchange rates at a competitive level.
7.2    Second, the Credit will help poverty reduction through improving the targeting of public
expenditure to the poor. To facilitate this the Credit will support further detailed work on the
ongoing PER (including the expenditure incidence analysis, the costing of programs and the
identification of financing gaps).
7.3    Third, the Credit will help the poor by developing and implementing a safety net
(expected to cost around $25 million) that will provide incomes and transfers for some 1.5 million
poor Malawians through targeted programs including public works, child nutrition programs and
transfer programs for widows and orphans.
7.4    Risks: Since this is a one tranche operation disbursed on the basis of actions already
implemented, the risk associated with this specific operation is low. However, the operation
should be seen as a time slice of an ongoing overall reform process. The risks to the overall
program are high, given Malawi' s mixed record of policy implementation and spending control,
and its vulnerability to further shocks. The risks faced by the overall reform program come from
three directions: political, macroeconomic and the weather. The reforms are being implemented
in a complex and evolving democratic political process. The ruling party has a thin majority. In
such a situation interests of individual constituencies and regional interests could impede the
progress of reforms. Macroeconomic risk arises from the continuing high inflation and interest
rates. Macroeconomic stabilization involves reducing outlays on long standing entitlements such
as low cost tertiary education, or input subsidies. Such reductions are difficult to implement.
Malawi is highly dependent on Tobacco for exports. Tobacco prices have shown a secular
declining trend. If this trend continues there will be pressures on Malawi's balance of payments.
The final source of risk arises from the possibility of droughts such as those which occurred in
1997/98. While the rainfall this year has been good, there is always a risk that in the next season,
poor rains which could create a shortage of maize and unravel the hard won gains in reforning
the food security system.
7.5    While there are risks that the overall reform program would falter even with the support
of this operation, the authorities' commitment is strong. Moreover, the risks of inaction are even
higher. The reform program supported by this Credit and the associated external assistance
strengthens the hands of the pro-reform elements within the Government and improves the
chances of continuation of unpopular reforms such as the further targeting the Targeted Input
Program, cost recovery and a continued progress on privatization. The Credit itself offers the
best antidote to existing low confidence levels in the private sector. Finally, in the absence of
additional external assistance to meet the emerging financing gaps, there would be a reduction in
imports through lower growth and an adjustment of the real exchange rate. In fiscal accounts, the
Government would be obliged to cut back development and operations and maintenance (O&M)
outlays. This would have serious repercussions not just on medium term growth prospects but



19
also on the direct poverty alleviation objective as critical projects are left incomplete and existing
health and education facilities are starved of recurrent resources.
8.    CONCLUSION
8.1    Since the advent of democracy and the election of a new Government in 1994 a wide
range of policy reforms have stabilized and started the process of economic restructuring,
resulting in higher growth. The challenge now is to sustain the momentum of these reforms by
unlocking policy and regulatory constraints to greater public sector efficiency and private sector
growth. The proposed Credit aims to assist the Government in attaining these goals. I am
satisfied that the proposed Credit and supporting TA Project will be effective in this purpose and
would satisfy the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve them.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Zhang Shengman
Washington D.C.
November 27, 2000






NOU-19-00 23:29  FROM:TREASURY          265#781679         TO:202 473 8163        PFGE:02
Ti 4er  : Fiasnac, Lilongwe               }MI{STRY OP FENANCE
Teckphon: Ibongwe 782 199                                           P.0. BOX 3004
Tekx: 44407                                                            LILO.OX   3
Fax: 781 679                                                           ULONOWE 3
MALAWI
Ref No: 32/1/81                                   16th November, 2000
Mr. James D. Wolfcnsohn
President
International Development Association
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.   I am writing on behalf of the Government of Malawi to request a
Credit of US$55 million from the Intemational Development Association
(IDA) in support of the continuation of our structural reformii programme
under the proposed Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Programme
(FRDP III). The Credit will help to meet the balance of paymenits financing
requirements that Malawi faces, particularly n the light of terms of trade
losses from a fall in tobacco prices and a rise in oil prices.
2.   The requested Credit will support reforms designed to (i) improve the
management of the public sector through increased transparelncy and the
rationalisation of expenditure in line with defined priorities; (ii) strengthen
the Government's procurement and auditing services; (iii) encourage private
sector developrnent through liberalisation of key sectors; and (iv) introduce a
national safety nets strategy. The reform programme is described below and
more details are provided in the attached policy matrix.
3.   In addition, I would like to request. a complementary Credit of US$3
million from IDA for purposes of employing technical assistance to support
the reforms proposed under FRDP IHI.
Overview
4.. The central objective of the Government of Malawi remains to
accelerate poverty reduction of the people of Malawi through extensive social
development and intensive private sector growth. In order to realise this
objective, the Govenmment is in the process of developing a Poverty



NOU-19-00 23:29  FROM:TRERSURY        265#781679         TO:202 473 8163       PSGE:03
Reduction Strategy through broad consultations with all stakeholders. The
resulting Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) will form the basis for all
Government policy, in particular as it relates to public expenditure, and will
act as a focal point for the Government's negotiations with external
development partners, including the World Bank.
5.   The PRSP will be based on an analysis of the poverty sitiation in
Malawi and will present prioritised strategies for poverty reduction togetlher
with quantitative targets to facilitate the annual monitoring and review
process. The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) presented at
the May 2000 Consultative Group meeting provides a roadmap for the
development of the full PRSP. The IPRSP received broad endorsement fTom
Malawi's development partners.
6.   The PRSP is expected to demonstrate that despite extensive economic
and structural reforms since 1994, poverty in Malawi remains widespread and
deep. The IPRSP emphasises three key reasons for the persistence of poverty
namely, macroeconomic iinstability, insufficient prioritisation of public
expenditure towards poverty reducing and growth enhancinig areas, and low
levels of private sector investment due to poor infrastructure, excessive
Government borrowing and ownership of assets, and weak public institutions.
In addition to focusing on these three aspects, .fie IPRSP stresses the need for
a sustainable and cost effective social proteefTon system to protect the poor
from the effects of policy reforms, and to assist those who cannot fully
participate in economic growth.
7.   Given that all these factors cannot be tackled in one operation, FRDP
III proposes to focus on four areas where tangible achievements can lead to a
reduction in poverty. The programme will assist to create a supportive
macroeconomic framework, restructure public expenditures and improve
public sector management, create an enabling environment for private sector
development, and design and implement a comprehensive and cost effective
safety nets strategy.
Macroeconomic Stabilisation
8.   The Government remains comnmitted to creating macroeconomic
stability as a precondition for growth and poverty reduction. In particular, the
Government intends to further improve fiscal discipline and limit monetary
growth so that the 12-month inflation is reduced to 10 percent by end-
December 2001  The Govemment's stabilisation programme targets a
reduction of fiscal deficit (after grants), from 4.6% of GDP in 200012001, to
1.1% of GDP in 2001/2002 through strengthening tax collection efforts,
2



NOU-19-00 23:30  FROM:TREASURY       265#781679        TO:202 473 8163     PFAGE:04
reducing non priority expenditures and implementing cost recovery measures
announced in the 2000/2001 Budget. A market determined exchalnge rate
would be maintained and broad money (M2) growth would be reduced from
21% in 2000 to 17% in 2001 to be achieved largely by restricting reserve
money growth.
Public Sector Management
9.     Substantial progress has been made in recent months in improving
fiscal discipline and the quality of public expenditure. The "Ten Point Plan"
alid associated measures outlined in the 2000/2001 Budget presented to
Parliament have reduced the scope for the accumulation of arrears, imposed
stricter limits on extra-budgetary expenditure, and improved the mechanisms
for setting monthly expenditure ceilings for line ministries and for reporting
monthly expenditures and commitments. The Public Expenditure Review
highlights areas of poor quality expenditure and points the way forward for
improving this quality. The Govermnent has also in recent months conduct¢1
a broad review of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
process, taking all aspects of public expenditure policy and management into
account. The main output of this review process is a detailed MTF,
improvement plan that is currently being finalised.. Finally, during the
Consultative Group meetings held in May and&subsequently, the Government
has made moves towards developing Sector Widc Approaches in key sectors,
with widespread support and involvement of development partners.
10.  There are three main areas within public sector management supported
by the proposed credit: improving the allocation of public expcnditu-,
improving the efficiency of public expenditure and improving tax efficiency.
11.   Improving the allocation of public expenditure. The 2000/2001
Budget as approved by Parliament reflects several of the recommendations of
the Public Expenditure Review (PER)_ One of the problems identified by the
PER was the shortage of operations and maintenance expenditures for critical
public services. In the 2000/2001 Budget, the share of expenditure on Other
Recurrent -Transactions (ORT) in key sectors has been increased. These
include ORT outlays in education, health, agriculture, roads and community
development. In the education sector, resources freed by the reduced
allocation for boarding in Conventional Secondary Schools (from 16% to 9%
of the total secondary school recurrent budget) have been reallocated towards
non-salary qualitative inputs. As a result, budgeted expenditure on teaching
and learning materials increased by 66 percent from the previous year, so that
the allocation for each primary school student for materials is worth US$2.50.
Similarly, in the health sector, the allocation to the Ministry of Health and
3



NOU-19-00 23:31  FROM:TRERSURY        265#781679         TO:202 473 8163       PRGE:05
Population for drugs and pharmaceuticals increased by 46 percent fi-om the
previous year. This has resulted in allocated per capita dmug expenditure of
US$1.17, bnrnging Malawi closer to the World HealtIh Organisation (WHO)
recommended figure of US$1.25.
12.   The Goverrunent also inmplemented the recommendatioiis of the PER
by announcing the introduction of cost sharing for tertiary education in the
2000/2001 Budget. The Government also introduced cost recovery in several
areas of exclusive consumption, such as passports, immigration documents,
motor vehicle documents and police reports
13.  With a view to rationalising the development budget, the Governmelnt
has also created a data base for all development projects indicating their
status of implementation. The Government has subsequently prioritised its
activities and stopped or suspended -specific low-priority projects. All new
projects featuring in the 2000/2001 Budget are restricted to highi priorlitv
areas on the basis of the Public Expenditure Review.
14.  Improving the transparency and monitoring of public expenditure.
Under the "Ten Point Plan" issued in March 2000, the Government has put in
place new rules to avoid accumulation of arrears. These rules require
Controlling Officers in line ministries to mainrtain an up-to-date expenditure
and commitment register. Ministries which' do not submit the molnthly
commitment and expenditure returns in time would not be ftinded. Action has
also been taken to improve the transparency of the public sector. The
Government has introduced quarterly reporting of aggregate revenues and
expenditures in addition to more detailed reporting of core programmes.
These reports are now being produced within a month of the end of each
quarter and posted on the website of the Minisiry of Finance and Economic
Planning.
15.  Similar action has been taken for parastatals. The balance sheets and
profit and loss accounts of the five largest parastatals are published on the
website of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning within three
months of the end of each quarter. In addition, the Government has created a
Parastatals Monitoring Unit within the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning to scrutinise the financial operations of the parastatals.
16.  Another crucial area for improving the transparency and monitoring of
public expenditure highlighted in the Public Expenditure Review and the
MTEF Review is the need to improve financial management and audit
functions. The Government has decided to undertake a major reform of both
4



NOU-19-00 23:31  FROM:TRERSURY         265#781679         TO:202 473 8163       PRGE:06
of these functions. At the centre of this reforn is the separation of the
financial management and auditing functions by enactinig new legislation.
17.  At present, the office of the Auditor General lacks capacity and
authlority to ensure that public resources are used efficiently and for their
intended purpose. To address these issues the Government will create an
autonomous office of the Auditor General with the necessary authiority anid
capacity. The Teclnical Assistance Credit will support this effort.
1 8. This reform will further create an opportunity to improve the
Government's  financial  management  function.  In  particular,  the
strengthening of the accounting procedures will be implemented through the
introduction of an Integrated Financial Management and Infonnation Systemn
(IFMIS) centred in the office of the Accountant General and supported by
IDA through the Second Institutional Development Project.
19.  Public procurement in Malawi currently accounts for around 10
percent of GDP (including parastatals). However, there are many
inefficiencies and opportunities for corruption within the current system of
procurement. These problems have been detailed in a 1996 study conducted
by International Procurement Consultants (IPC), whose recommendations
have been adopted by the Government after extensive consultations. At the
centre of the proposed reforms is new legi-sation, whiclh will establish a
procurement code and a procurement authority. As a result, procurement will
be decentralised to the purchasing agencies. These reforms will require
substantial technical assistance.
20.  Improving tax efficiency. The objective of the reforms in this area is
to increase the efficiency of the tax system while protecting revenues.
Improvement in tax administration is required in two areas: (i) in ensuring
that the tax authority has adequate motivation to sustain revenue collection,
(ii) reducing the delays in tax reimbursement. In this respect, the Government
has set up the Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA) as an independent tax
agency under an Act of Parliament. MRA is now operational and is allowed
to hold back 1.65% of tax revenues towards its operational expenses.
Additional revenues are also provided to ensure the prompt payment of surtax
refunds.
Private Sector Development
21.  The Govemment continues to recognise that the private sector is the
engine of growth and that private sector development is therefore a
precondition for sustainable poverty reduction. To meet this objective, the
5



NOV-19-00 23:32  FROrM:TREPSURY        265#781679         TO:202 473 8163       PAGE:07
Government established the Privatisation Commission in April 1996 and
approved a Divestiture Sequence Plan (DSP) in 1997. Of the 100 public
enterprises listed in the DSP, about 40 had been privatised as of December
1999. The remaining enterprises are being privatised in a phased manner in
accordance with the DSP. The Government is also engaged in a broad range
of activities under the Privatisation and Utility Reform  Project witlh the
assistance of the World Bank. The reforms under this project focus on
liberalising  and privatising petroleum  imports, telecommunicationis and
financial sector.
22.  The Government has made considerable progress in liberalizing the
petroleum  marketing arrangements. Prior to May 2000, the Petroleum
Control Commission  (PCC) imported  all the  country's  petroleum
requirements. Since May 2000, the role of the PCC has been limited to that of
regulating the petroleum market. As' a consequence: (a) all importation of
petroleum is now being handled by the private sector, (b) although a new
company, ORTEX, was formed to take over the non regulatoiy functions of
the PCC, including oil storage, it is now clear that distribution and marketing
are not appropriate activities for the public sector. Accordingly, ORTEX will
be privatized by May 2002- As a part of the liberalisation of the sector, the
Government has adopted a pricing formula which adjusts retail prices in
response to movements in world prices, exdhange rate and other macro-
economic variables. This formula is adiministered by a private sector
committee under the chairianship of the Malawi Confederation of Chambers
of Commerce and Industries.
23.  The Government has made considerable progress in the reform of the
telecommunication sector and its regulatory framework. The Malawi Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation (MPTC), a Government monopoly was
legally separated into two corporate entities: the Malawi Posts Corporation
(MPC) and the Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL) on July 1, 2000.
A second mobile license was issued to a private sector company, and the
registration for Internet Service Providers (ISPs) has been fully liberalised.
To date, 15 ISPs have been registered.
24.  As a next phase of the reform program, the Government is engaged in
selecting a strategic partner for MTL, which will also be offered a cellular
mobile license. To this end, a request for expression of interest has beeli
published and an Information Memorandum containing a profile of the MTL
and detailed sale procedures will be issued by the end of the year. In
structuring this transaction, the Government has taken key decisions to
further liberalise the regulatory framework for telecommunication. In
addition to MTL, the Government will offer a second national operator
6



NOU-19-00 23:32  FROM:TRERSURY        265#781679        TO:202 473 8163      PQGE:08
license for fixed voice telephony services and MTL will no longer have a
monopoly on the international gateway.
25.  The Government has undertaken  several reforms to  increase
competition in the financial services sector. As a result, thlree new bank-s lhave
been licensed in the last five years. The Govermment has sold some of its
equity in the National Bank of Malawi, the Commercial Bank of Malawi and
the Finance Corporation of Malawi. Extensive efforts are currently being
made to secure a strategic partner for the Commercial Bank of Malawi, for
which an information memorandum has been issued. In addition, the
Government is formulating an action plan for the introduction of a new
comprehensive financial sector regulatory framework on the basis of tlhe
studies done under FRDP II.
Safety Nets Strategy
26.  The Government has developed and adopted a National Safety Net
Strategy (NSNS) to provide for those who are unable to benefit from the
economic growth brought about by other development policies. The NSNS
aims at coordinating all safety net programmes into an integrated strategy,
The strategy involves moderate intervention affecting about 25 percent of the
population with an estimated cost of about US$25 million per annrum, with
the following elements:
*    An expanded public works programme.
*    A targeted version of the Starter Pack Programme.
*    A targeted nutrition programme.
*    Direct transfers to the disadvantaged (people with disabilities,
elderly, orphans, etc.).
27.  The Government has appointed a Safety Net Implementation
Committee to rationalise new and existing safety net programmes in. line with
the medium term objectives of the NSNS, umder the overall guidance of the
National Economic Council. The Committee will advise on the safety net
programmes to be implemented on the basis of their contribution to, and
coherence with, the NSNS.
28.  As part of this effort, the 2000/2001 Budget has scaled down the
allocation for the distribution of free inputs to smallholder farmers. The name
of the programme has been changed from the Staiter Pack Programme to the
Targeted Inputs Programme to reflect the Government's commitment to
ensuring that the inputs are targeted at the poorest smallholder farmers.
7



NOU-27-00 04:48  FROM:TREASURY        265#781679        TO:202 473 9163       PRGE:01
29.  In response to food security concerns, the National Food Reserve
Agency (NFRA) was formed in 1999 as an autonomous body, to act as a
strategic grain reserve. As a part of the reform program, the Government has
strengthened the operations of the NFRA. The Government has amended the
trust deed of the NFRA to narrow its mandate from one of being engaged in
stabilisation of maize prices to being exclusively engaged in disaster and
relief operations. The NFRA has therefore become an important component
of the National Safety Net. Towards enabling NFRA to meet this role in a
fiscally sustainable manmer, the Government has decided to limit maize
stocks to be held by NFRA to 60,000 metric tons. No new borrowing will be
carried out by the NFRA, and the Govenmment will appropriately capitalise
the NFRA with the assistance of the international donor community.
Macroeconomic Prospects and Financing Requirements
30.  Malawi's economic prospects are modest. The Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) is expected to grow by 3-4% per annum during 2001-2003,
accelerating to 4-5% per annum beyond the year 2003. With population
growing by about 2.2% per annum, the projected GDP growth will result in a
per capita consumption growth of between 1-2% per annum over the next
five years. Malawi's modest growth prospects could be attributed to both
extemal factors as well as policy challenges. Tobacco, which accounts for
60% of Malawi's export eamings faces a secular decline in prices. Economic
difficulties in Malawi's traditional trading partners - Zimbabwe and South
Africa - adversely affect the prospects for non-traditional exports. Malawi
imports all its oil and is thus vulnerable to changes in world oil prices.
Further, being a landlocked country, Malawi faces high transport costs for its
imports, adversely affecting its competitiveness. The most serious factor
affecting Malawi's prospects is the impact of the HIV/AIDS. Studies of the
impact of AIDS estimate that at the current prevalence rates, GDP would be
reduced by between 1-2% per annum over the medium term.
31.  Balance of Payments projections without HIPC resources show that
Malawi's gross financing requirements over the next three years 2001-2003
amount to about US$270 million per annum. These are to be met by the
projected committed financing from bilateral and multilateral sources of
about US$200 million per annum. This means that Malawi requires financing
over and above the committed financing on average of about US$70 million
per annum during 2001-2003. For the year 2001, the additional financing
requirement is estimated to be about US$105 million. For 2001, as per the
current timetable, about USS40 million could come from HIPC relief, and the
remaining USS65 million could be met from the proposed adjustment credit,
the AfDB and as possible co-financing from other multilateral and bilateral
8



NOU-19-00 23:33  FROM:TREASURY        265#781679        TO:202 473 8163      PPGE:10
donors. The additional resources will thus allow the Government to create a
sustainable balance of payment in support of the projected growth targets. In
addition, the availability of these additional resources is also crucial for the
Govermnent's fiscal program which includes mainitainiing crucial outlays for
lhealth and education to a level consistent with the growth and poverty
alleviation objectives of the Government. In addition, it will also allow the
Government to meet the long overdue obligation of capitalisation of the
National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA).
Conclusion
32. The Government remains committed to its overall objective of poverty
reduction through sustainable economic growth led by the private sector and
social development facilitated by an efficient and effective public sector. The
Poverty Reduction Strategy currently being formulated will play a crucial
role in translating this objective into reality. The economic reform
programme described here will form an important part of this strategy. It is
therefore the Government's hope that the IDA will grant the requested Credit
to assist in the implementation of the proposed programme as pait of the
overall strategy, and therefore ultimately to reduce poverty in Malawi,
Yours sincerely,
DR. MATHEWS A. P. CHIKAONDA
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
9



Attachment to Annex 1.
Page I of 4
Policy Matrix
Diagnosis               Actions beforelBoard iS.Su             4iebe    Aitions/             O er IDA
M:edium Term Objectives              Instruments
A.  Public Sector
Management
Expenditure radonaoization
Shortage of outlays for     Increased allocations in the    The share of education sectorl      PERIHIPC
operation and maintenance in    200012001 Budget for other  expenditure in discretionary recurrent
key sectors.                recurrent transactions (ORT) in  budget will be maintained at, at least
education, health, agriculture, road   23%.
maintenance, community
development and gender         The share of health sector expenditure
development.                   in discretionary recurrent budget will
be maintained at, at least 13%.
Primary education: Allocation   The share of primary education in   Achieve yearly enrollment of 6000  PER/IHPC
inadequate and shortage of  ORT increased from 4.8% of the    students for teacher training and
personnel in key areas.     total ORT in 1999/2000 to 5.4% of  institute in service training for all
total ORT in 2000/2001.        primary school teachers at least once a
year.
Prepackage donor supplied primary
textbooks for each school to be
delivered directly from supplier to the
school.
Secondary education: Disparity  Reduced budgetary allocation for    Eliminate the subsidy for boarding in   PER/Ongoing education
in quality between          boarding in Conventional        secondary schools.                 projects/HIPC
conventional (boarding)     Secondary Schools (CSS) from
secondary schools and the    16% of recurrent expenditures in
community secondary day      1999/2000 to 8.7% of recurrent
schools due to disparity in  expenditures in 2000/2001 and re-
Government funding.         allocated saved money to
qualitative inputs.
Tertiary education:         Announced cost recovery policy in  Further expand the cost recovery  PER/Ongoing education
High Government subsidy.    tertiary education by increasing  through increasing fees. In parallel  projects/HIPC
fees.                          develop a bursary fund to ensure that
poor students are not adversely
affected.
Contract out catering at tertiary
institutions.
Health sector:              Increased the share of health sector  Annually recruit, train and deploy at    PER/HIPC/Ongoing health
Allocation inadequate and   ORT expenditure in total ORT    least two hundred nurse technicians,    operations
shortage of personnel in key  expenditure from 13% in       fifty new medical assistants, and
areas.                       1999/2000 to 14.5% in 2000/2001.  twenty new radiography technicians.
Medicinal drugs allocation and   Increased allocation of medicinal   Implement the reform of the Central    PER/Proposed health
distribution:               drugs in 2000/2001 Budget to $  Medical Stores (CMS)               operation/lIPC
Allocation inadequate and    1.17 per capita to approximate
distribution inefficient.   better health in Africa (BHA)
targets.
Cost recovery:              Announced a cost recovery policy   Use partial or full cost recovery where
Subsidy for goods and services  including a schedule of prices to be  the case for public provision of goods
which do not have a strong  charged for passports, visas, motor  or services is weak.
public good element.        vehicle licenses and police reports.
' Includes Ministry of Education, Universities, MANEB, MIE, Scholarship fund, and Polytechnic Board of Governors.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 2 of 4
Diagnosis               Actions before Board              Subsequent Actions/                 Other IDA
Medium Term Objectives                Instruments
Rationalization of development  Established a detailed project  Establish a mechanism by which all    Ongoing PERs
projects:                    database within Ministry of     proposed new projects are screened by
Development budget coverage   Finance expanding the coverage to   a specifically created committee
incomplete for aid financed  aid financed projects.          chaired by a senior official of the
projects and project                                         Ministry of Finance.
prioritization weak.         Restncted entry of new projects in
the 2000/2001 Budget to only high  Continue the process of rationalization
priority sectors on the basis of the   of the development budget.
PER.
Restricted, suspended or dropped
specific low-priority projects in the
2000/2001 Budget.
Expenditure Management
Fiscal transparency:        Announced a "Ten Point Plan" to    Budgetary outturns for core programs   Introduction of the IFNMS
Expenditure outcomes are not   improve fmancial management.  will be posted on the web with a delay  (management information
publicly available until after the                           of no more than six months.        system) under the IDA
end of the fiscal year.      Posted on a Government web site                                    Institutional Development
expenditure on core programs in                                   1I Project.
the 2000/2001 Budget, and actual
outturn as of September 2000.
Expenditure arrears:         Issued circular (March 2000)    By end 2000, an Integrated         Introduction of the IFM1S
Arrears by Govemment to the   requiring controlling officers to  Management Financial Information  (management infonnation
domestic private sector had a    maintain an up-to-date      System (IFMIS) will be introduced in   system) under the IDA
tendency to build up since early  commitment register. Ministries  four key ministries .to inhibit over-  Institutional Development
1998.                       which do not submit the          spending and provide timely       1I Project.
commitment and expenditure      information on over commitments.
retums timely would not be funded. This will be expanded to all ministries
over three years.
Strengthened the monthly cash
budget system by introducing
quarterly credit ceiling authority
system to allow ministries to plan
expenditures in advance as wetl as
avoid accumulation of arrears.
Parastatal finances:        Created a new parastatal         Finances of 5 largest parastatals posted
Monitoring is weak.          monitoring unit in the MOF.     on the web will be updated with a
delay of no more than six months.
Balance sheets and profit and loss
accounts of 5 largest parastatals, as  A new system for authorizing
of June 2000, have been posted on   parastatal borrowing will be designed
the web.                        and implemented.
Auditing reform:             Cabinet has taken the decision to    Draft and pass legislation to create new
The capacity and the authority   separate the financial management  legislation to separate the financial
of the Auditor-General are   and auditing functions by enacting   management and auditing functions.
weak.                        new legislation.
Create a fully independent Auditor-
Initiated the contracting of TA for   General's office, with adequate
the Accountant General and     staffing, budgetary provision.
Auditor General's office.
Raise the audit coverage of ministries
from 45% in 1999 to 75% in 2002.
Procurement reform           Cabinet has approved the results of   By 2002, using the TA operation, put   Possible Public Sector
Procurement is centralized,  the phase I of the study which  in place a new legal framework for the   Management Project Under
straining capacity and leading    decentralizes the procurement  procurement authority and create a  Discussion.
to delays and mis-procurement.  process, and has directed the  well staffed authority and a transparent
Ministry of Finance to proceed  procurement process.
with the implementation.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 3 of 4
Diagnosis                Actions before Board               SubsequentActons/                   Other IDA
Mediium Term Obj'ective              lnstrumenitts
Tax administration           Created a fully functional, self  Further improve the MRA operations    TA provided by IDA (and
There is scope for improvement  financing Malawi Revenue      by staff training.                  UNDP, DfID).
in revenue collection as     Authority (MRA). The budget
evasion is commonplace.      makes a provision for MRA to
retain 1.65% of the tax revenue to
finance its operations.
B.   Private Sector
Development
Finandal sedor Reforms
The fnancial sector is publicly   Commercial Bank of Malawi   Complete by early 2001 a new        Privatization and Utility
owned and oligopolistic.     (CBM) brought to the point of sale  comprehensive regulatory framework.   Reform Project
Efficiency, as measured by   by issuing an information
interest rate spreads and the  memorandum.                    Conclude the sale of the CBM
limited range of financial
instruments, is low.
Privafizagon of
infrastructure(transactions)
Infrastructure services are  The Malawi Posts and             Will issue an information           Privatization and Utility
among the top constraints to  Telecommunications Corporation    memorandum (IM) for the sale of   Reform Project
private sector development.  (MPTC) legally separated into two   Malawi Telecommunications Limited
corporate entities.             shares before the credit is effective.
Registration for internet service  Full liberalization of cellular services
providers (ISPs) fully liberalized    by 2003.
(15 ISPs registered to date).
Full liberalization of all telecom
Communicated policy decision for  services (gateways, VSATs for voice
a limited liberalization of basic  linking networks) by 2005.
telephony services.
Published a request for expression
of interest for the purchase and
subscription of shares in the MTL.
Liberalization of Petroleum
Marketing:
Up to 1999 imports were      Private imports of petroleum     A petroleum supply study will be
carried out by the Petroleum  legalized.                      carried out to examine further
Control Commission (PCC), a                                   liberalization of the petroleum markets.
parastatal. There were       Private sector imports of petroleum
problems of accountability and   began May 1, 2000.           Privatize ORTEX by May 2002.
transparency in the PCC.
Prices of petroleum products    PCC split into a regulatory agency
were unnecessarily high due to  (also called PCC) and a supplier of
the lack of competition.     storage services (called ORTEX).
ORTEX has so far not engaged in
any market operations.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 4 of 4
Diagnosis               Actions before Board              Subsequent Actions/                Other IDA
Medium Term Objectives               Instruments
C.  Safety nets                                                                                __
Safety net strategy
There is no coordinated safety   Approved a national safety nets  Ensure that all old and new safety net   The Malawi Social Action
net strategy, leading to waste,   strategy (NSNS). Created an  programs are designed and prioritized   Fund (MASAF) Project.
duplication of efforts and gaps   institutional structure to implement  in line with the medium term
in coverage.                the strategy.                   objectives of the NSNS.
Starter Pack Program
Restructuring the Starter Pack    Converted the Starter Pack  Gradually reduce the TIP coverage and
Program, which is currently  Program to a Targeted Input    improve the targeting mechanisms and
untargeted and therefore    Program (TIP) covering only 1.5   integrate it within the NSNS.
fiscally unsustainable and cost   million households for the 2000/01
ineffective.                planting season compared to a
coverage of 2.89 million
households in the last season.
Reduced budgetary allocation to
the TIP from $27 million in
1999/2000 to $2 million equivalent
_in the 2000/2001 Budget.
Restructuring National food
reserveAgeny                          _
The National Food Reserve   Amended the NFRA deed to        Develop NFRA into a well functioning
Agency (NFRA) lacks a       restrict it to being a strategic grain   strategic grain reserve as per the new
rationally defined mandate,  reserve exclusively involved in  deed.
clear rules of intervention, and   disaster and relief activities. This
financial ceilings.         brings the NFRA under the
National Safety Net strategy as one
of the poverty relief instruments for
emergency situations.
Taken the decision to limit the
maize stocks to be held by the
NFRA to 60,000 tones. No new
funds programmed in the 2000/01
budget, or new borrowing was
authorized.
Tenders have been invited from
private traders to sell excess stocks.
So far 72,000 tones have been
contracted to be sold.



Annex 2
Page I of 5
FRDP III TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (TA) CREDIT
1.   Objective
1.1  The FRDP IIl TA credit is designed to support the implementation of the reforms being
carried out under the FRDP III adjustment credit. The technical assistance is focused on a few
areas where the policy reforms enacted under the adjustment operation would need to be
supported by building institutions and training. The TA will also support activities such as the
preparation of legislation to lay the basis for the next phase of the reform effort. The TA
program will cost about $ 3 million and is expected to be implemented over two years.
1.2. The proposed TA credit will support the implementation of policy reforms in two main
areas which have been jointly identified with the Government. Both these areas need substantial
training and institution building, and in which key decisions to create the necessary framework
for providing effective TA have been taken. The two areas are: (i) improving financial
management by reforming the auditing and accounting systems, and (ii) improving public
procurement. In addition to these there will be a small unallocated component to finance
consultancy and training in improving the budget process and public expenditure allocation
including improving the working of the medium term expenditure framework.
2.   Components of the TA program
(i) Improving Financial Management:
2.1  The broad thrust of the reforms in this area is to strengthen the financial management
framework to ensure that public funds are used efficiently and for the purpose for which they are
intended. The key to achieving this is to strengthen the auditing and accounting practices in
Malawi.
2.2  Auditing: Like many other developing countries, Malawi suffers from the weak capacity
and authority of the office of the Auditor-General (the Supreme Audit Institution, SAI).
Malawi's SAl lacks independent authority and is inadequately funded to carry out its mandate.
These weaknesses in the Auditor-General's office also hinder the anti-corruption efforts of the
Govemment.
2.3  To address these issues, and as part of its anti-corruption campaign, the Government has
decided to (i) amend the Finance and Audit Act to separate the two functions (audit and fiscal
management) under a new Finance Act and a new Audits Act. (ii) establish, under the new Audit
Act, an independent Audit Board which will have oversight over the Auditor General's office.
2.4  Under the proposed TA program, the Government will hire consultants to carry out the
following:
*  Advise on how best to split the current finance and audit act into two proposed Acts.
*  Review of existing audit methodologies, prepare audit manuals, develop and test value
for money audit guides.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
*  Review of the current organizational structure, grades, salary structure, conditions of
service in the SAI.
*  Review the current planning structure in the SAI and a management information system.
*  Assess strategic training needs in the SAI and set up a training department.
2.5  Accounting:. The split of the Audit and Finance act will also provide the framework for
improving the accounting practices in Malawi. The reforms in this areas are being supported by
the ongoing ' IDP 2 credit. The program supports strengthening the office of the Accountant
General through preparing and implementing an Action Plan for Institutional and Staff
Development. Under this plan, an Integrated Financial Management and Information System
(IFMIS) is being introduced under which the Account General's office will have cleared all
expenditure data through an integrated computerized system. Under the ongoing IDP 2 TA
program, contractors are being hired to design and install the IFMIS initially in four ministries
and eventually in all ministries.
(ii) Improving Procurement
2.6  The value of public procurement in Malawi, including that by parastatals, is currently
worth around 10% of GDP. But the procurement system is inefficient (unable to deliver items
cost effectively and in time) and vulnerable to fraud and corruption. The problems affecting
procurement have been catalogued in detail in a 1996 study, conducted by International
Procurement Consultants (IPC) financed under a previous IDA operation.
2.7  The IPC study has now been discussed extensively with stakeholders and the Government
has adopted its recommendations. The IPC recommendations include the repeal of the existing
stores instruction, and the legislation of a new public procurement act based on the UNICITRAL
model law on procurement. The new law will establish a new procurement code and a new
procurement authority, which will decentralize procurement to the purchasing agencies. The
Procurement Authority would be responsible for providing oversight, ex-post review of
procurement decisions and training. The TA program will include developing and implementing
an institutional development program to create and strengthen the new Procurement Authority.
Specific activities covered by the program are:
*  Preparing a procurement code for approval by cabinet and parliament
*  Assist with the setting up of the new procurement authority including staff
appointments and training.
*  Prepare the details of the stores reform program overseen by the new procurement
authority.
*  Asset with the implementation of the new procurement process including (i) Re-
organizing of the Government Stores, including definition of the roles of the remain
agencies; (ii) Redefine the role of CTB and its replacement with the Procurement
Authority, (iii) Arranging documentation and operational manuals, (iv) Identifying
training needs and designing training programs, and assist in hiring a training
This closing date for the IFMIS component of this credit has recently been extended by one year.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
consultant, (v) Designing rules and regulations as well as policies; (vi) Operationalise the
system, and (vii) Computerization of Govermment stores.
2.8  In addition to the two areas defined above, the TA program also has earmarked a small
unallocated amount mainly to improve the allocation and efficiency of public expenditures
including improving the operation of the medium term expenditure framework (MTEF). The key
areas where TA will programmed are:
*  Improving he prioritization of the development budget. This would include analysis of
the role of donors in project selection and the link of the development budget with the
SIPs and SWaPs. Further work is also needed to improve the implementation of the
development budget by streamlining the project execution.
  The Governnent believes that a survey is needed to assess the quality of services
provided and what can be done to improve the effectiveness of public expenditures.
*  The TA will also support an assessment of the extent of leakage in public expenditures
by carrying out a flow of funds analysis.
*  TA funds could also be allocated for the targeting of the starter pack program and
implementing the social safety nets and other elements of the reform program
depending on the availability of other bilateral resources.
3.   Cost and Timing:
3.1  The cost of the TA program has been estimated to be around $ 3 million. Detailed costs
and timelines are available on file. In our discussions with the Government we have agreed that
if financing for specific components for the program could be obtained from bilateral donors on a
grant basis the allocation from the IDA credit will be appropriately reduced. The implementation
of the TA program supported by this credit is expected to take around three years while the
adjustment credit will disburse in a single tranche. This is one of the reasons why the TA
component is presented as a separate operation accompanying the adjustment credit. The
breakdown of costs by the different components is as follows.
Table 1
Subject Area                        Cost (in thousands
US$)
Accounting                                0 (IDP 2)
Auditing:                                   400
Procurement                                 2400
Unallocated (Public Expenditure)             200
TOTAL                                      30000
4.     Implementation Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
4.1   Implementation: The TA credit will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance
under the supervision of the Secretary of the Treasury. During implementation, each
aspect of the TA program will be guided by a Task force and coordinated by Secretary of



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
Treasury or an official designated by him. A full time consultant will be hired by the
Government to assist in the administration of the TA component.
4.2    Procurement: IDA financed credit will be utilized for goods, training,
consultancy, and operating costs under the project. Procurement for all IDA financed
activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting services by firns or individuals
will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September 1997,
Addendum Effective January 1, 1999
4.3  Disbursements: Disbursements and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World bank
Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the
Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. The proposed IDA
Credit of US$ 3.0 million would be disbursed over three years with an expected Project
Completion date of June 30, 2003 and a Closing Date of December 31, 2003. The proposed
allocation of Credit proceeds is shown in Table C below:
Table C
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit
Category                     Amount of the    % of
Credit Allocated  Expenditures
($ '000)        to be
Financed
1   Office Equipment              440             100% of
Foreign and
90% of Local
2   Consultant Services           1000             100
3   Training, Workshops, Study    870              100
Tours and Conferences
4   Unallocated                   290              100
5   Total                         3000
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
4.4  All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit account will be fully documented
except for expenditures against contracts (i) with an estimated value of US$100,000 or less each
for goods and consulting firms; (ii) US$50,000 or less each for individual consultants; and (iii)
for all training, workshops, study tours and conferences, which may be claimed on the basis of
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed
against SOEs will be retained at MOF and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
Special Account
4.5  To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for goods and services, the
Government will open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of
eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by MOF. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account would be US$ 300,000, covering an estimated four months of eligible
expenditures financed by IDA. MOF will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditure. to the extent possible, all of
IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the special account.
Financial Management Arrangements
4.6  An assessment of the financial management arrangements for implementing this project
has been carried out by the Bank's financial management specialist. The arrangements were
found satisfactory and the risks minimal. The project implementation team will produce on a
regular basis, project financial statements and; reports on the sources and use of funds, and the
special account. All reports will be prepared on a cash basis. The project will be audited by an
established auditor on the basis of terms of reference agreed with IDA.



Annex 3
ORT' Outlays in Key Sectors Share of Total ORT Outlays (%)
Est       Budgeted
99/00       00/01
Education                                      9.82         10.69
Health                                        12.98         14.55
Agriculture                                    3.38         4.32
Road maintenance                               8.25         13.65
Community Development                          0.07         0.08
Gender Development                             0.09         0.10
Source: Budget Documents.
ORT stands for Other Recurrent Transactions. Recurrent Expenditure minus wages and interest rates.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
Malawi - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                           36.8    36.3    35.9    38.0    39.9    41.0    42.5    44.0    45.6
Industry                              18.2    17.5    17.8    19.2    18.5    18.7    18.9    19.3    19.9
Services                              45.0    46.1    46.4    42.8    41.6    40.3    38.6    36.7    34.6
Total Consumption                       97.0    99.1    93.9   100.6    97.5    96.8    93.1    91.6    90.9
Grossdomesticfixedinvestment             9.1     9.8    11.1    12.8    14.1    15.1    15.5    16.1    16.7
Govemment investment                   4.6     5.2      9.1    10.6    10.0    10.2    10.5    10.4        8.5
Private investment                     4.5     4.6      2.0     2.3      4.1     5.0      5.0      5.8     8.3
Exports (GNFS)b                        21.3    23.1    33.3    27.1    27.7    31.4    30.8    30.2    29.7
Imports (GNFS)                         29.9    34.4    40.7    42.5    41.3    45.4    41.5    40.0    39.5
Gross domestic savings                   3.0     0.9     6.1    -0.6      2.5      3.2      6.9     8.4      9.1
Gross national savingsc                  0.3    -1.5      1.9    -2.2     0.7      1.5      5.5     7.2      8.0
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product               2432.2  2533.5  1736.5  1810.1  1705.8   1534.0  1695.3  1831.0  1948.6
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)     180.0   200.0   200.0   180.0   170.0   150.0   150.0   150.0   160.0
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  7.3    3.8     2.0     4.0      3.2      3.0     4.0      4.5     4.5
Gross Domestic Income                  9.8      5.7    -1.6     4.0      1.9      2.6     4.1      4.3     4.3
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  4.5    1.2    -0.6      1.6     0.8      0.7     1.7      2.3     2.4
Total consumption                      4.6     6.5   -11.3    10.0    -4.1    -0.3        0.3      1.0     1.8
Private consumption                    9.3     7.8   -13.5    13.1    -2.2        0.4     0.7      1.2     2.0
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                      518.0   586.0   578.0   489.1   472.6   480.9   522.3   553.2   578.8
Merchandise FOB                    483.4   539.0   539.0   447.1   430.9   438.4   478.7   508.6   533.2
Imports (GNFSb                       727.1   872.4   706.0   768.0   705.1   696.8   703.8   732.7   768.9
Merchandise FOB                    623.8   783.4   579.0   673.0   625.2   614.4   618.1   643.2   675.3
Resource balance                    -209.2  -286.4  -128.0  -278.9  -232.6  -215.8  -181.5  -179.6  -190.1
Net current transfers                 -25.0   -18.7   -31.0    13.0    11.2    11.4    11.7    11.9    12.2
Current account balance              -273.2  -346.3  -200.4  -307.7  -262.7  -241.3  -205.0  -201.6  -211.9
Net private foreign direct investment  30.0    23.9    33.6    39.0    39.7    40.9    42.5    44.4    48.5
Long-term loans (net)                   ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
Official                             121.0    75.8    81.0   108.8    81.7    79.9    41.5    16.7    40.9
Private
Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)  ..  ..   ..       ..      ..       ..
Change in reservesd                  -109.5    63.1   -76.1    31.0    20.3   -32.0    -6.8    -6.5    13.4
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)             -8.6   -11.3    -7.4   -15.4   -13.6   -14.1   -10.7    -9.8    -9.8
Real annual growth rates ( 1994 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)              12.3    10.2      3.7    -0.2    -1.5      0.7      6.1     4.5      3.1
Primary                                5.6     8.1      0.2    -4.2    -0.2      2.6      6.2     4.7      3.1
Manufactures                            ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       ..       ..
Merchandise imports (CIF)              32.7    33.2    -5.5    -2.7    -8.9    -4.1    -1.9        1.6      2.6
(Continued)



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Malawi - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                        17.3    15.2    16.8    16.6    16.2    17.8    18.7    18.6    18.3
Current expenditures                    21.2    21.3    21.0    17.5    16.7    16.5    15.9    15.3    14.5
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  -3.9    -6.1    -4.3    -0.9    -0.5    1.3      2.9      3.3      3.8
Capital expenditure                      9.9     8.1    10.1    10.7        9.5     9.7      9.8      9.4      8.1
Foreign financing                        8.8     6.9    14.9    12.9    10.9    11.3    11.5    10.5           7.0
Monetary indicators
M2VGDP                                  16.7    14.7    16.0    14.5    13.7    13.4    13.1    13.0    13.0
Growth of M2 (%)                        60.3    -1.7    41.1    33.6    20.9    16.8    12.4          9.7      9.5
Private sector credit growth/           94.7   114.3    16.1    79.0    52.9    92.1    92.1    92.1    92.1
total credit growth (%)
Price Indices (1990=100)
Merchandise export price index         116.3   117.8   113.5    94.3    92.3    93.3    96.1    97.7    99.3
Merchandise import price index         133.9   127.1    93.4   114.6   116.8   119.7   122.8   125.7   128.6
Merchandise terms of trade index        86.9    92.7   121.5    82.3    79.1    78.0    78.2    77.7    77.2
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f           82.3    91.9   126.2   126.1   138.6   161.7   160.3   159.4   159.4
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)         37.7     9.1    26.2    44.8    27.1    18.0         7.2      5.0      5.0
GDP deflator (% change)                 58.9     7.8    27.0    42.2    23.9    16.1    10.4          5.4      5.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited trxansfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Malawi - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1996   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Total debt outstanding and         2156    2281    2479    2589    2706    2824    2949    3055    2857
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)'           125       66     155     174       81      89       51      15      32
Total debt service (TDS)             89       93     101      102      92      94       94     103      101
(US$m)W
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                         408.8   379.4   420.5   516.3   537.2   546.1   525.4   513.6   458.7
TDO/GDP                           88.7    90.1   142.8   143.0   158.6   184.1   174.0   166.8   146.6
TDS/XGS                           16.8    15.4    17.2    20.4    18.3    18.2    16.7    17.3    16.2
ConcessionaUITDO                  91.5    98.9    83.4    84.2    83.1    82.7    80.8    78.9    86.1
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                 15.3    11.9    10.9      9.8      9.8     6.4      2.1     1.9     0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public      74.1    74.8    75.3    74.4    71.7    70.8    71.2    74.1    74.8
DS (%)c
IBRD DS/XGS                        2.5      1.8     1.9     2.0      1.8     1.2      0.4     0.3     0.0
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                   42      34       26      17        9       4       2        1       0
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)          ..     ..       ..      ..       ..      ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                   1346    1559    1466    1548    1581    1634    1672    1699    1720
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex 5
Page I of 2
Malawi at a glance                                                          11/27/00
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Saharan     Low-
Malawi    Aftica  Income      Development damond
1999
Populatlon, mid-year (mi//ions)                    10.8      642    2,417                 Ufe expectancy
GNP per capita (Alas rnethod, US$)                  180      500       410
GNP (Atas method, US$ billions)                     2.0      321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Populaton (%)                                       2.6       2.6      1.9
Labor force (%)                                     2.6       2.6      2.3     GNP                            Gross
per                          prmary
Moat recnt eatmate (latest year available, 1903-9g.                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line,
Urban population (% of total population)            22        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    42        50        s0
infant norlality(perl,000livebi,ths)                134       92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)          30        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)   45        54        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                41        39        39
Grss prirmary enrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation;  134       78                           Malawi
Male                                             140        85       102               -Low-incorne group
Female                                           127        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
Economic ratIo.'
GDP (US$ billions)                         1.1      1.6       1.7      1.8
Gross domestic investmenVGDP              32.5    24.6       13.5     14.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and servicestGDP         22.4    18.8       33.3     27.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                15.5      8.8       6.1     -0.6
Gross national savings/GDP                 4.0      4.8       1.9     -2.2
Current account balance/GDP                  ...  -13.4     -11.5    -17.0     Domiestic 
Interest payments/GDP                      2.2      1.8       1.6      1.5     Sav                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                            61.2    88.7    142.8    143.0         vigs
Total debt service/exports                17.9    39.5       17.2     20.4
Present value of debt/GDP                                    84.8     81.8
Present value of debt/exports                               249.7    295.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  198-99    1998      1090   1990-03
(average annual growth,
GDP                                2.1     3.6      2.0       4.0      3.6            Maawi       Low-income group
GNP per capita                    -0.7     1.0    -1.3        1.6      1.3
Exports of goods and services      2.6     5.3    21.8    -18.6        2.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investnent and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                     20
Agricuiture                               55.2    47.7       35.9     38.0
Industry                                  26.2    27.9       17.8     19.2      o 0               -         -
ManufactuNng                             16.1    18.5      13.8      14.0        L.   ssfsss7                  go
Services                                  18.6    24.4       46.4     42.8   -20
Private consumption                       66.2    74.8       80.6     88.2   .40
General govemment consumption              18.4    16.3      13.3     12.4              -     GD1    -*GOP
Imports of goods and services             39.5    34.5       40.7     42.5
1979-89  1989-99     1998     1999    Growth of exporta and Imports (%)
(average annual growth,
Agriculture                                1.5      6.6       4.5      7.0    30
Industry                                   2.1      1.6       2.0      4.0    20
Manutacturng                              3.0    -2.0       2.0       4.0    10
Services                                   2.9      3.5       2.6      2.0     0
Private consumnption                       2.1      6.6     -11.3     15.9            tl_        s    °   y    Y
General govemment consumption              6.0    -4.1        6.0     -4.8   .20
Gross domestic investment                 -5.2    -8.2       -7.3      1 1.5    30      -
Imports of goods and services             -1.8      0.1     -12.4      8.1              Expos         elrt
Gross national product                     2.5      3.8       1.3      4.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 5
D.mno2of2
Malawi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        100
Consumer prices                                ..    12.5       26.2      44.8     so
Implicit GDP deflator                        -0.6    22.5       27.0     42.2      60
40
Govemnment finance                                                                 20
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                                  o
Currentrevenue                               13.6    22.7       16.8      16.6             94   95   95   97   98   99
Current budget balance                       -1.4    -0.1       -4.3      -0.9                  GDP deflator    *C
Overall surplus/deficit                     -11.1     -6.7     -14.3    -11.6
TRADE
(US$ milions)                               1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                   269        539      447      1,000
Tobacco                                              169       332       275         . .
Tea                                                   37        40        39
Manufactures                                  .       33        63        56      600
Total imports (cif)                                   405        564      673       400   dJ i  _i
Food                                                   4        77        32
Fuel and energy                                      42         56       66       200
Capital goods                                 .      118       250       305       o      .                   . E       I
92  94  95  9o  97  99  99
Export price index (1990=100)                         100        99        87
Import price index (1990=100)                          87        87        91                   HExports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1990=100)                             115        113       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    19B9       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                257      299       578       489       0
Imports of goods and services                451      447       706       768        -*f
Resource balance                             -194    -149       -128     -279        -
Net income                                  -126  -50   -41  -42  10 * 11111
Net current transfers                          0       -14       -31       13      1 ,
Current account balance                        ..   -213        -200      -308
-20
Financing items (net)                          ..    172         277      277
Changes in net reserves                       77       40        -76       31      25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        76      209        516      233
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              0.8      2.8      31.1      44.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         670    1,411      2,479     2,589
IBRD                                        18       91         26       17                       AS127
IDA                                        116      625      1,466     1,548              F 229
Total debt service                            46      122        101      102           E: 24 
IBRD                                         1       15         11       10
IDA                                          1        6        21        24
Composition of net resource flows                                                     D: 4s3    _
Official grants                              ..       ..       157      157                         s             1s48
Official creditors                          65       94         81      109
Prvate creditors                            33        7         -1        0
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..       34        39             c: ss
Portfolio equity                                                 0        0
World Bank program 1/
Commitments                                 40       82         48      101      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               27       78        111      143      B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         1        9         19       21      c - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   27       70        92       122
Interest paVments                            1       12         14       13
Net transfers                               25       58        78       109
Development Economics                                                                                              11/27/00
1/ In fiscal years.



IBRD 29374
32          To Dor Es Soloom                                                                                     3
MALAWI
Thismopwospnoced m=                                                           ADMINISTRATIVE
ofthe World o                      k«    \             iismXa                       DIVISIONS
The boundoares, colors.                                                             DIVISIONS
dernominotioan  shd on)'                                                      REGIONS AND  DISTRICTS
an this mop do not
The World Eook Grou,
ony iudgmenot on the legal .s
stotus of oy trrbitcy,     oJ-   riotowo       ;
or ony endonsemeot,                                                                       PRINCIPAL ROADS
or occeptonce of such            
booundorirss.                \        f        5_- X-                                     RVR
..~X-RIVERS
E  ndeni    LDke                     0     TOWNS
MOOSO 62F ,/t  As,zuzu;   \             DISTRICT CAPITALS
1                 & wEt Asgut                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MO\wi                KILOMETERS  0   20   40   0  80    100
MILES 0      20      40       c0
.                 SV 02 .rJ ~~~~~Nkhar Th7
NTC SI                      QMOZAMBIQUE
MM MtHINJ] F3                       Doses         /~j 
To Luesak a
~~~ \ > X Dedzo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                                              To Nocolo
'   £..   /-)MACHINGA 
MOZAMBIQUE                                                              nd           /
y  C  hi S          w~~~~~~~~~~hl,w
RWAND.l KEI7A    LLA
DEM. RBEP]                                       T. TIo rRA
OFCONGO          TANZANIA      INDIANNJ
.r- ~    . T-rg-oy,k                INIA                                hik--d                      M.1anhYji
) L. TanganylksX        OsCEAN   AA5sood><g+hri_
ANGOLA`                   MALAWIeir
ZAMBIA
NAMIBIA    ZIMBABFE                                                                                                                1998
H  BOT'iWANA >/\\  
Fbwy1 998



