                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26151

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-34520; IDA-34521)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 43.5 MILLION (US$ 55.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                                FOR THE

        THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM (FRDP III)




                                                06/12/2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 2002)

                                     Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MKW)
                                    MKW 80.3185 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 0.012450 = MKW 1

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                           July 1  June 30

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMARC Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
BHA Better Health for Africa
BOP Balance of Payments
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CBM Commercial Bank of Malawi
CMS Central Medical Stores
ESCOM Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi
FRDP Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GOM Government of Malawi
HIPC Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA International Development Agency
IFMIS Integrated Financial Management Information System
IMF International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP Letter of Development Policy
MASAF Malawi Social Action Fund
MDC Malawi Development Corporation
MHC Malawi Housing Corporation
MKW Malawi Kwacha
MOF Ministry of Finance
MPC Malawi Posts Corporation
MPTC Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
MRA Malawi Revenue Authority
MTs Metric Tons
MTEF Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MTL Malawi Telecommunications Limited
NEC National Economic Council
NFRA National Food Reserve Agency
NSNS National Safety Net Strategy
OED Operations Evaluation Department
ORT Other Recurrent Transactions
PCC Petroleum Control Commission
PER Public Expenditure Review
PERMU Parastatal Enterprise Reform and Monitoring Unit
PRGF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility

PRSP Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD Private Sector Development
PURP Public Utilities Reform Project
RBM Reserve Bank of Malawi
ROC Regional Operations Committee
SDR Special Drawing Rights
TA Technical Assistance
TIP Targeted Input Program
TOR Terms of Reference
VAT Value Added Tax

                                    Vice President:  Mr. Callisto Madavo
                                 Country Director:   Mr. Hartwig Schafer
                                Country Manager:     Mr. Dunstan Wai
                                  Sector Manager:    Mr. Philippe Le Houerou
                                    Task Manager:    Mr. Antonio Nucifora

                                           MALAWI
                                           FRDP III


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  12
9. Partner Comments                                                                 13
10. Additional Information                                                          16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               26
Annex 8. Variation between budgeted and actual expenditures, 1998/99 - 2001/02      38

Project ID: P050294                                                      Project Name: FRDP III
Team Leader: Sudhir Chitale                                              TL Unit: AFTP1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 17, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: FRDP III                                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-34520; IDA-34521
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (47%); General education sector
                            (20%); Health (15%); Crops (12%); Telecommunications (6%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Standards and financial reporting (S); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (S); Education for all (S); Rural
                            markets (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/14/1999                                        Effective: 01/23/2001
   Appraisal:    10/19/2000                                            MTR:
    Approval:    12/21/2000                                         Closing: 06/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Hartwig Schafer                                     Darius Mans
Sector Manager:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                              Philippe H. Le Houerou
Team Leader at ICR:        Sudhir Chitale                                      Sudhir Chitale
ICR Primary Author(s): Basil Kavalsky; Antonio
                           Nucifora


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The operation was intended to build on two earlier adjustment credits (FRDP I and II) which were
provided in 1996 and 1998 respectively to the newly democratic Government of Malawi which had taken
office in 1994. These earlier credits had supported wide-ranging structural reforms which substantially
liberalized Malawi's economy.       The outcomes of these credits was assessed as satisfactory, with the
opening of the tobacco market leading to higher growth rates as smallholders responded to the production
incentives, while a new textile export sector developed to take advantage of favorable access to foreign
markets. There were significant shortcomings in public sector management however, in particular with
regard to macro-economic stabilization. Inefficient state enterprises required periodic injections of
resources which were funded through public borrowing. As a consequence deficits and inflation remained
high and both nominal and real interest rates were at levels which were too high for most potential private
investors.

         In addition to the broad economic liberalization, the earlier credits had three core objectives. The
first was a substantial increase in pro-poor public expenditures, and specifically the shares of education
and health in total expenditures. A social safety net was introduced, but was relatively untargeted and was
not regarded as fiscally sustainable. A second area was privatization of the large state-owned enterprise
sector in Malawi, where a privatization plan was implemented and a satisfactory start made on selling off
enterprises. The third area related to the management of public expenditure. A medium-term expenditure
framework was introduced, and a start made on improvements in financial management and procurement.

         Although the conditions of FRDP I and II were met in substance, the outcomes were not as
favorable as expected when those credits were designed. Growth rates were no higher than the historical
averages, reflecting the weaknesses in macro-economic management and their impact on both domestic and
foreign private investment. Uncertainties in agricultural input and output prices also impacted the
production of foodcrops in particular. Finally the AIDS epidemic began to have an increasing impact on
output in both the service sector and in agriculture.

         Against this background, work on FRDP III started in 1998 with a view to consolidating the
achievements of the earlier credits and getting to grips with the critical issues of macro-economic
stabilization. The objective of substantially lowering the deficit, required a complex set of interventions to
improve public sector expenditure management, to privatize or increase the efficiency of key parastatals, to
target the social safety net so as to reduce its overall cost, and to increase revenue collections. These were
arguably changes which would take time to introduce and have an impact. The original design for FRDP
III consisted of a first tranche with up-front actions and four floating tranches with conditionality in
specific areas. At the Regional Operations Committee (ROC) this design was rejected because of its
complexity and the difficulty of proceeding if any one of the floating tranches was undisbursed. The team
was asked to come back with a more traditional two-tranche operation. At around this time, the HIPC
initiative was being expanded and the Bank and Fund were under pressure from the international
community to work with countries to establish their eligibility for debt reduction. A new team leader took
over preparation in April 2000 and reached the conclusion that there were too many question marks about
the program as designed, with regard to Government commitment to undertake a set of measures to be
included in a second tranche. The likelihood was that even if we succeeded in getting to the approval stage
of such a credit, there would be serious problems down the road. If the Bank wanted quick forward
movement on the operation to release HIPC support and donor funding, the most sensible way to proceed
was a single tranche operation. Another difficulty was the need for consistency between a second tranche
and the policies to be included in the PRSP which was under preparation by the Government.



                                                       - 2 -

         A choice was made to go ahead with a single tranche operation which would maintain the
momentum of reforms where the Government was committed to further progress and would set in motion
the process of reforms in the important areas of financial management, audit and procurement. The
original amount suggested for a single tranche operation was US$35 million (as against the US$80 million
for the two-tranche operation), but at the request of the Malawians this was raised to US$55 million which
was the amount needed to capitalize the emergency food agency (NFRA), and came close to closing the
projected financing gap for the year (which was larger than originally projected because of a 20 percent
decline in international tobacco prices). FRDP III was approved by the Bank's Board in December 2000,
in parallel with the Fund's PRGF which went to their Board in the same month and supported an analogous
program of conditionalities. A parallel Technical Assistance credit to support capacity enhancement in a
number of key areas of conditionality was presented and approved by the Board at the same time as the
FRDP III. This credit is expected to close in December 2003 and will be subject to a separate ICR.

    FRDP III had three broad objectives.
   l The first was the improvement of public sector management with the major focus being on
         improvements in the allocation, transparency and monitoring of public expenditures.
   l The second was the promotion of private sector development essentially through the continuation
         of the privatization of some key parastatals - telecoms, petroleum imports and distribution, and the
         commercial banks.
   l The third was to create a targeted safety net through the development of a strategy combined with a
         targeted program of subsidized agricultural inputs and a strategic food reserve.

         Each of these objectives was based on existing analytical work. The preparation of a Public
Expenditure Review with Malawian collaboration provided the basis for designing a program of public
expenditure reforms which would have substantial Government commitment. The previous adjustment
credit and the Privatization and Utility Reforms Project laid the basis for the Government's program of
privatization of major public assets in telecommunications, commercial banking and the liberalization of
petroleum imports and marketing. A study of options for a Safety Net Strategy for Malawi had been
recently completed and provided a basis to inform the preparation of the Government's own Safety Net
Strategy.

         There was no implication that by themselves the measures which supported each of these objectives
would be sufficient to keep the adjustment program on track. It was recognized that in addition to the
up-front actions included in FRDP III there would need to be a set of subsequent actions which were
defined in the program which would need to form the basis for any new adjustment lending in the future.
This formula had the advantage however, of making the requirements for follow up less rigid than they
would be in a two-tranche operation and capable of being changed or fine-tuned to adapt to prevailing
circumstances and the PRSP.

3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.

3.3 Original Components:
n.a.

3.4 Revised Components:
n.a.




                                                     - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         Quality at entry for a single tranche operation is difficult to assess. The primary criterion is
presumably whether the policy measures included created or maintained the momentum of the reform
program. Although the measures included in the program were mainly fairly modest steps, they did deepen
the reform in a number of key areas, particularly on advancing the privatization program and improving
revenue collections. These measures constituted a reasonable package of actions which kept up the
forward momentum achieved under FRDP I and II. They only represented a modest step, however,
towards the achievement of the critical objective of supporting the structural reforms needed to underpin
macro-economic stability. A more substantial step would have required that the credit tackle the issues
related to ADMARC, the agricultural marketing parastatal which had been one of the primary sources of
unanticipated calls on Government resources in the period (with the cost of ADMARC's operations
amounting to 1.6 percent of GDP in 1998/99 and 1.9 percent of GDP in 2000/01). This issue had been
highlighted in the Public Expenditure Review. The earlier FRDP credits had secured the divesting of some
of the more profitable activities of ADMARC which had been used in the past to cross-subsidize some of
its other undertakings and obscured its operational inefficiencies. Without these, the real underlying
problems became apparent. The solutions however, were not short term nor were they supported by the
same degree of analytical depth as the rest of the program. The multi-tranche operation had proposed to
close down a number of ADMARC's local depots in the first tranche. The new team leader took the view
that there were too many question marks about whether this was the right course of action. Given the
uncertainties and the practical difficulties of getting up front agreement and action on further reforms of
ADMARC in the time available the decision not to deal with these in the single tranche of FRDP III was
defensible. The recent food crisis points to the failure of agricultural policies and with hindsight this raises
questions whether the objective of HIPC eligibility, important though that was, should have been permitted
to dominate the timing, design and content of the operation.

         A second criterion to judge quality at entry is the strategic role of the operation. In general, single
tranche adjustment operations are justified where the Government is committed to the program and is
willing to continue with it. There were questions whether this was the case in Malawi, given the mixed
achievements of the previous structural adjustment operations and the slowing down of the reforms
process. At the same time, determining the appropriate size of a credit when Government commitment is
uncertain constitutes another difficult judgment. The extent to which the usual financing gap
considerations should dictate the size of the credit once the decision to lend has been made (both the Fund
and the Bank agreed to lend in this case) is unclear. At the time of the FRDP III, Bank management
attached the highest importance to moving in tandem with the Fund to unlock access to HIPC and create the
financial basis for an acceleration of reform and growth. A small single tranche operation was well judged
as a means of achieving this objective and the initial amount of US$35 million communicated by the
preparation mission to the Government was appropriately scaled in the circumstances, even though it
represented a reduction relative to the first tranches of FRDP I and FRDP II. However, by subsequently
increasing the size of the credit to US$55 the Bank gave an unfortunate signal as to the weight it attached
to a longer term commitment to the reform process. In view of these considerations quality at entry is rated
only marginally satisfactory.

         In view of these considerations quality at entry is rated only marginally satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
         The appropriate parameters to evaluate a single tranche operation are not fully clear. Obviously,



                                                       - 4 -

any structural operation has to be viewed in the context of the process of reforms it helps to sustain. This
raises the important question of what the appropriate time frame is to evaluate the impact. In the case of
the FRDP III, the ICR was performed two years after the release of funds, so the perspective it takes is
different from if it had been undertaken immediately. As will be discussed below, the two-year follow-up
period to the credit has brought very limited changes in two of the three focus areas of the credit (public
sector management and social safety nets) and some successes in the third one (privatization):

i. Improved public sector management through enhanced expenditure allocation, transparency and
monitoring.

          The attempt to build the medium term expenditure framework is continuing and was supported
under the project. The links between the framework and the annual budget are still not well understood
however. The framework has not been used as a rolling three year plan, instead each year the exercise
begins anew. This said, the process has contributed to a greater awareness of the need for pro-poor
expenditures and increased allocations for these purposes in line with the PRSP (e.g. share of health sector
in discretionary recurrent expenditures from 12 percent in 2000/01 to 18 percent in 2002/03; share of
education sector in discretionary recurrent expenditures from 21 percent to 29 percent; additional details in
Annex 1). The allocations for operations and maintenance in the budget have also been stepped up in line
with Bank recommendations (e.g. health sector from 16 percent to 24 percent in total ORT; education
sector from 15 percent to 21 percent).

          There is a need however, for determining overall expenditures more realistically and making some
provision for contingencies such as the food emergency. At present, actual expenditures at the end of the
year differ significantly from the original budget estimates (by 2-3 percent of GDP on average; see details
in Annex 8). The aggregate variation is the result of regular under-spending of the development budget
(mainly due to delays in project implementation) and overshooting of the recurrent budget. Most of the
discrepancy in the recurrent budget is associated with higher than anticipated interest payments on debt
(mainly as a result of consistent under-budgeting of the interest bill). Variations in discretionary recurrent
expenditures are also quite large, both in the aggregate (plus or minus 10 percent on average) and in terms
of changes to the allocations made to individual agencies (more than half of public institutions regularly
receive either 10 percent more or 10 percent less than originally programmed, and it is not uncommon for
institutions to receive 30 percent more or less than originally anticipated; see details in Fozzard et al.
(2002), ODI Working Paper N.166). The main net beneficiaries have been the Office of the President, the
State residences, the Police, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, almost every year there is an
unexpected crisis, either because of unanticipated parastatal debt or arrears, or because of a natural
disaster such as drought or floods. However, only a small allowance is made for such contingencies (the
current budget line for disaster management amounts to about 0.5 percent of GDP).

          Inevitably, wide variance on recurrent expenditures renders the budget irrelevant as a guide to
resource availability during budget execution, thereby weakening the rationale for detailed budgeting,
undermining operational planning and subverting parliamentary oversight. Consequently, most line
ministries make little effort to prepare realistic budgets, and the Ministry of Finance does not verify the
feasibility of the proposed expenditure reductions. For instance, the 2002/03 wage bill for education was
budgeted at around MWK300 million per month in spite of the fact that the average payroll for education
between January and June 2001/02 was approximately MWK380 million. It was therefore no surprise to
find that in July education expenditure was MWK80 million over budget. Similarly, the 2002/03 budget
for utilities by individual line ministries were only about 70 percent to 80 percent of actual expenditures
during the previous year (although no actions were planned to enforce the budgeted reductions in these
expenditures).


                                                      - 5 -

         The problem is not only budget formulation but perhaps even more importantly in its execution.
The sector ministries have not yet shown themselves willing or able to provide a regular flow of meaningful
data on expenditures and commitments. By the same token the Finance Ministry has not been willing to
take the initiative in delaying non-salary budget transfers until such data is provided. The weak
monitoring of public expenditures results in regular overspending by some ministries, without sanctions
ever being enforced. Major reallocations are undertaken both within and across ministries without
parliamentary approval and with very limited transparency.

         Another important element of the FRDP III operation was an overall improvement in the timeliness
and transparency of expenditure data both for the Government and for the parastatals. The one-off
collection of data and publication on the web which was carried out before Board presentation has not been
sustained. In recent weeks a commitment was made to publish this data and then immediately withdrawn,
suggesting a lack of consensus within the Government on whether it is willing to take this step. On a
positive note, the government is currently publishing Pro-Poor-Expenditure reports on the Ministry of
Finance website and in the newspapers.

         The performance with regard to monitoring the parastatals has been significantly better. The
Parastatal Enterprise Reform and Monitoring Unit (PERMU) is now operational and produces regular
reports on a quarterly basis of the 10 largest parastatals. This information has not been published on the
web however.

         The overall arrears situation has not improved since FRDP II. Government estimates put the
stock of arrears at between 0.5 to 1 percent of GDP, although no precise estimate has been calculated. A
comprehensive audit of arrears is planned with donor funding during 2003 and should provide an accurate
assessment of the existing stock. In recent months the Government has moved to centralize the payments
for water and electricity bills of those ministries and budget entities (e.g. defense, hospitals, schools etc.)
which have disregarded their payment obligations for these services in the past. The ministries in turn
responded by systematically underestimating the level of their utility payments so that the centralized
amounts have only covered about 60 percent of the new bills and the stock of utilities arrears continues to
rise at a rate of 0.2 percent of GDP per annum. This is arguably still a somewhat better outcome than
might have resulted without the centralization of payments.

         Revenue collections have improved dramatically. In fact, the new Malawi Revenue Authority
(MRA) constitutes one of the most notable success stories of FRDP III. Revenue collection has increased
by over 3 percent of GDP since the establishment of the MRA in early 2000, although this is in part
attributable to changes in tax policy.

         An important element of the program was the establishment of an independent Auditor-General's
office which would not be beholden to the Ministry of Finance for its annual budget. This has not yet been
realized. FRDP III underestimated the depth of debate this would cause inside the Government, with
strong proponents of the 'New Zealand model' and the 'South African model' ranged on either side. The
Government deserves credit for the depth and care with which it has addressed this issue. By now,
however, the facts are widely understood. Substantial progress has been made with drafting the relevant
legislation and it is expected to be submitted to Parliament shortly.

         The reforms on procurement have not progressed since Board presentation. To some degree this
represents genuine uncertainties in the Government as to whether the approach which the Bank outlined in
FRDP III is the right one. There is a great deal of concern about the potential impact of decentralization


                                                      - 6 -

on corruption and the current approach is a hybrid in which contracts are placed by individual ministries
and agencies, but reviewed by a central unit.

         Other minor reforms have also not progressed significantly since Board presentation. The
rationalization and prioritization of aid-financed projects within the context of the Government budget has
not taken place and the project database which was established at the time of Board presentation has not
been maintained or updated. Cost recovery fees have been introduced for various services (passports,
visas, motor vehicle licenses, police reports), but no progress has been made in ensuring that the fees
collected are remitted to the Treasury. Little progress has been made in introducing partial cost recovery
fees for secondary and tertiary education. Secondary school fees have been increased, but the substantial
funding for boarding in secondary schools has not been reduced due to concerns about the lack of
alternative affordable lodgings for students. In tertiary education, a significant increase in university fees
has been accompanied by the introduction of a universal loan scheme which is widely regarded as a grant.

ii. Private Sector Development through parastatal reform and privatization.

         Three parastatals were selected for FRDP III. The first was the divestiture of part of the
substantial government holdings in the financial sector and in particular privatizing a majority stake in one
of them, the Commercial Bank of Malawi. This has been achieved, although at the `price' of allowing
Press Trust, a major local conglomerate with close political ties, to exercise the option of increasing its
stake in the other major commercial Bank, the National Bank of Malawi, from 48% to 51%. Allowing a
local conglomerate to be in charge of a major commercial bank raises the need for tighter prudential
controls. On the other hand, the arrival of the new owner of the Commercial Bank of Malawi, Stanbic
South Africa, has laid the basis for competitive banking sector development in the future. This constitutes
a positive step in a context where there were little or no alternative options.

         The second parastatal was Malawi Telecoms. Slow progress on this resulted in a hold up in
disbursement on FRDP III until the information memorandum was made available to potential bidders.
This reflected some dissent within the Government on proceeding. Since then the privatization has run into
significant problems. After delays in the early stages (the whole privatization program was temporarily put
on hold during 2001 due to concerns on the Government side), the Government made a subsequent good
faith effort to privatize MTL. By then, however, the downturn in the global telecommunications market
rendered the privatization process substantially more difficult. An initial attempt to privatize MTL
collapsed as one member of the consortia which had been identified as the preferred bidder pulled out at the
last minute. The process is now being repeated from scratch.

         The third parastatal was the petroleum import and distribution agency. In this case, the
privatization appears to have shifted the structure of the sector from a public monopoly to a regulated
private monopoly. While this is far from ideal, given the small size of the Malawian market it appears
likely to be the outcome of privatization in many sectors and the evidence suggests a positive result with
much greater availability of retail outlets and a fairly stable supply price. This is a very good achievement
and puts Malawi well ahead of many other African countries in this area.

         Perhaps the most notable issue here was what was not included. Although the preparation of new
conditionality on ADMARC would have taken time, it would have been appropriate to indicate that this
should be part of 'subsequent actions' and that any future adjustment lending to Malawi could not go
forward without some improvement of the financial and management situation of ADMARC.




                                                       - 7 -

iii. Safety net strategy through targeting subsidized inputs and creating a strategic food reserve.

         The issue of whether and how to intervene effectively in the maize market remains one of the most
complex and difficult issues for public policy in Malawi.     The two separate issues of promoting more
efficient maize production and distribution on the one hand, and using subsidized inputs or food distribution
as a social safety net, have become so inter-twined that it is difficult to achieve one except at the expense of
the other and inevitably the pendulum swings backwards and forwards between the two objectives,
depending largely on the outcome of the harvest in any given year. The focus in FRDP III was to try to
define a sphere of public intervention on the social safety net which was clear and well established. This
would rationalize the overall package of intervention, quantify the amount of resources needed from the
budget and, by removing the uncertainties surrounding public interventions, restore private incentives both
to increase outputs and to import and distribute maize in the face of shortages. Three instruments were
defined to achieve this: i) designing a National Safety Nets Strategy (NSNS), ii) targeting the formerly
universal free input distribution program (commonly referred to as the 'starter pack' program), and iii)
reforming the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) into a financially independent institution, with a
clear mandate as a strategic grain reserve exclusively involved in disaster and relief activities and clear
rules of intervention. However, the evaluation of the achievements of FRDP III in this area is made more
complex by the severe drought which affected Malawi during 2000/01 and 2001/02.

         In early 2001 the Government had been advised by the donors (including under the Bank's FRDP
III) to reduce the existing maize stocks from 180000 tons to around 60000 tons, which had been estimated
by the Government and the donors as the optimum level of strategic maize reserves. The Government,
however, disposed of its entire grain reserves. At the same time, inaccurate crop forecasts for 2001 from
the famine Early Warning System led to the failure to anticipate what later turned out to be a very serious
shortage of maize. As a result of these events, by early 2002 it became clear that the country faced a
famine situation, while the level of Government's maize stocks had been run down to zero. The
Government and the donors have since focused on responding to the food emergency, introducing a
combination of free food distribution for the most needy, a general maize price subsidy, and the continued
operation of the 'starter pack' as an untargeted program.

         The achievements of FRDP III need to be evaluated in this context. A National Safety Net
Strategy has been prepared and has been adopted by the Government, building on a 1999 study prepared in
collaboration with the Bank. However, the implementation of this strategy has not yet started and existing
safety net programs continue to be funded and administered independently of each other depending on
donor support. The recommended targeting of the 'starter pack' program was implemented during 2000/01
and 2001/02, but a decision was made to revert to a universal 'starter pack' in 2002/03 (which is largely
funded by donors, however). The Government has stated its intention to reduce the number of starter pack
beneficiaries over time, but no clear plan has been decided. The role and size of the starter pack program
remains an area which is still unresolved from a technical perspective and is an object of disagreement both
within Government and within the donor community. The general maize price subsidy raises more
difficult questions, but was indeed endorsed by Fund and Bank missions at the time it was introduced.
This policy ensures that affordable food is available to the poor, but is inefficient and perpetuates the
uncertainties surrounding the extent of public intervention in the maize market, thus discouraging private
sector involvement. On the other hand, given the seriousness of the crisis, these drawbacks constituted a
reasonable cost to pay to ensure that cheaper food became rapidly available and without the risk of delays
likely to occur from the administration of more complex schemes. On balance, therefore, while the FRDP
proposals were sensible and reflected the priorities at the time, it is difficult to fault the Government for the
decision not to target input support to farmers during years of drought and to provide substantial food and
cash transfers to the poorest groups. While the Government is likely to scale back the subsidized food and


                                                     - 8 -

inputs distribution programs in future years, the dilemma remains that uncertainties as to its level will
reduce incentives to private production and trade.

         The issues surrounding the reform of the NFRA deserve separate mention. As agreed, the
Government amended the trust deed of the NFRA to narrow its mandate from one of being engaged in the
stabilization of prices to being exclusively engaged in disaster and relief operations. However, the
Government did not use part of the FRDP III credit to capitalize NFRA, and authorized new borrowing by
NFRA at non-concessional rates, which led to a subsequent bailout of NFRA in 2001/02 (amounting to 0.6
percent of GDP).

Overall assessment:
         On balance, during the last two years, there has been only very limited progress with the
reforms initiated by the FRDP III, and therefore the outcome has been rated unsatisfactory.
However, this unsatisfactory rating is arrived at solely on the basis of the mixed record of
implementation of `follow-up' reforms by the Government. Since these reforms were not strictly
part of the credit, the rating is arguably somewhat unfair. However, these `follow-up' reforms
provided the `strategic context' for the agreed program of reforms under the FRDP III, which
make little sense without these subsequent steps.

4.2 Outputs by components:
n.a.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         In addition to the Technical Assistance credit associated with FRDP III to support capacity
enhancement in preparing the Financial Management and Audit Laws and improving the procurement
system, a number of steps were taken under FRDP III to establish the basic legal framework for certain key
institutions. These included the setting up of an independent Auditor General's office, the decentralization
of procurement, the establishment of a Parastatal Monitoring Unit and the creation of a Malawi Revenue
Agency. Only the last two of these has been achieved so far. On the first two, the cabinet has not yet
approved the proposed changes and though it may do so in the near future, this has delayed the provision of
technical assistance for this purpose.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
         The implementation of the measures supported under FRDP III was impacted by two major events.
First the expanding AIDS crisis severely diminished Government capacity in a number of areas,
particularly with regard to the provision of education and health services.   Second, the poor rainfalls of
2000 and 2001 led to widespread food shortages and consequent Government intervention to provide maize
at subsidized prices.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
         In a number of areas the key constraint appears to be Government commitment. This is most


                                                     - 9 -

notably the case with regard to public expenditure management. Budgets have not been established at
realistic levels. Once they have been approved there is inadequate effort to ensure that even the budgeted
levels are adhered to, much less to relate outflows to available resources. The President's Office is a
notable offender in terms of exceeding budget ceilings. Similarly, the failure to impose hard-budget
constraints on parastatals, notably the financing of ADMARC's maize operations, has been a primary
cause of large deficits and is at the root of macroeconomic instability. In light of this it was difficult to
meet many of the undertakings which were contained in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
and the list of subsequent actions for the program. In the areas where there was genuine commitment -
moving ahead with privatization and implementing the social safety net - the progress was much greater.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
         Public expenditure management is the primary responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and the
inability to carry out this function effectively represents a major failure of the overall operation. This said,
the inability of the Finance Ministry to secure the accountability of the various Government agencies and
ministries for preparing realistic budgets and managing them effectively, must be seen in the broader
context of the lack of commitment cited above.

5.4 Costs and financing:
n.a.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         There are a number of considerations in evaluating the sustainability of this project.    The
assumption was that there would be follow-up lending to Malawi which could be used to ensure that the
measures taken by the Government under FRDP III would be sustained. In and of itself the record of
FRDP III in the absence of such follow up lending is a mixed one. It has not led to an improvement in
public expenditure management, to the expected transparency in Government expenditures, to the
decentralization of the procurement function, to the establishment of an independent budget for the
Auditor-General's office, or to the privatization of Malawi telecoms. On the other hand, it has led to the
sustained increase in the share of pro-poor expenditures, the improved operations of the Revenue Authority,
and the satisfactory privatization of the banking and petroleum sectors. Further, it has helped to sustain
the broader program of privatizations including major parastatals such as Air Malawi, ESCOM, MPC, and
others not explicitly mentioned in the FRDP III credit. The pressures of the food emergency have resulted
in the delay of progress with regards to the implementation of the safety net strategy, but there is a genuine
understanding of the importance of this and the trend is likely to resume in the near future. However, the
questions surrounding the scope and extent of public intervention in the maize market do not appear to have
been sorted out, perpetuating the risk of incurring high future budgetary costs and creating important
disincentives for maize production and trading.

         The Government of Malawi makes the point in discussion that the Bank may be unrealistic in its
assumption on possible timing of actions and particularly on the idea that reform is a linear forward
progression. It is true that in the areas of privatization and safety nets reform the reform process is
broadly on track and there is commitment to moving in a general direction. On the other hand, no
significant progress in the area of public expenditure management has been made. The problem is that the
lack of progress in this important area and the general delays in the areas of privatization and safety nets
implementation translate into slower growth and this in turns puts the viability of the overall program at
risk. The Government of Malawi needs to balance carefully the political risks associated with more rapid
reform on the one hand and the political implications of continued slow growth on the other.


                                                      - 10 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         The associated Technical Assistance project is designed to put in place capacity in key areas. As
indicated above, new Structural Adjustment Lending would need to follow up the measures introduced
under FRDP III.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The Bank's primary objective in this operation was to unlock the door to HIPC. In addition, it was
a key component of the overall financing plan and supported the program of structural reforms. The hope
was that the enhanced dialogue and availability of donor funding would result in a renewed Government
effort to implement the needed macro and structural reforms.     In practice this has not happened. To the
Bank's credit, large parts of the operation are rooted in good quality, collaborative analytic work such as
the PER and work on the social safety net and privatization program. (The weakness on the analytic side
appears to be on agriculture development and the role of ADMARC, which contributed to the decision to
leave this important area out of the operation. In recent months the Bank has moved to correct this in part,
by carrying out a Poverty and Social Impact Assessment - PSIA of ADMARC.) The pressure to produce
a loan in a short period of time, however, shows in the inclusion of items which the Bank or the
Government had 'on the shelf' rather than always reflecting a coherent set of measures needed to achieve a
given objective. In addition, with the evolving situation of HIPC and the PRSP, FRDP III does not seem
to have been rooted in a Country Strategy which could have underpinned the progress made in the short
term as the Government moved to assemble the package of up-front measures. This said, the operation
made the best of a difficult situation in which not going forward was virtually out of the question once the
Fund had determined that the macro situation was acceptable. In the circumstances the Task Team Leader
positioned the operation effectively. A firmer line should have been drawn on the size of the credit
however.

7.2 Supervision:
         There was no formal supervision carried out given the nature of the operation. The Bank
remained closely engaged of course through its involvement with the reviews of Funds programs and
preparatory missions on potential follow-up operations, as well as the preparation of a Country Economic
Memorandum covering many of the issues of FRDP III.         More formal supervision with periodic reporting
should have been carried out, however, and might have helped to provide a clearer indication to the
Government as to where the programs subsequent actions were lagging and provided a basis for internal
decisions and action.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
         Overall Bank performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The Government demonstrated its capacity to move quickly to meet the needs of the program for
up-front actions for release of the single-tranche. The studies and analytic work was largely in place and
the needs for technical assistance were broadly identified.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. There was little follow up once the



                                                     - 11 -

pressure to meet the original one-tranche disbursement conditions was off. There is still a fundamental
failure to prepare budgets within realistic resource envelopes and then manage them so as to deliver the
approved expenditure levels. The privatization program did not move as quickly as planned. Government
concerns about the potential political impact of retrenchment lead to a temporary suspension of the entire
program during mid-2001. Following this initial delay, however, the privatization program has been
resumed and the Government has shown some genuine commitment. The delay in the implementation of
the social safety net strategy can be attributed only partly to the recent food emergency. More generally,
the Government's intervention in the maize sector both in the surplus and deficit years has had very serious
consequences for the budget, for macro-economic stabilization and for efficient production and trade.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         The Ministry of Finance did not monitor or follow up on the program effectively.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         With a single tranche operation the judgment must be equally shared between the quality of the
up-front actions and the degree of follow-up of the operation. As indicated earlier the overall design of the
package, while the measures themselves were modest, helped to maintain the momentum of the reform
program. The follow up in the subsequent two years has been disappointing. Many of the 'subsequent
actions' do not seem to have been treated as an agenda for action. The overall borrower performance is
therefore rated unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

1. The Bank should be more up-front in its documents about the difficulty of waiting for the Government
to establish a track record in the various areas covered by the operation, given the pressures to meet the
Government and the donor community's need for rapid action in the light of the HIPC program. While the
risks of significant lack of follow-through were described in the risks section of the document, this is really
not a sufficient indication of the nature of operations of this type where the window of opportunity is a
small one and the benefits lie in maintaining the general direction of reform rather than taking quantum
steps.

2. This said, it is important that credit amounts be maintained at levels which are commensurate with the
measures being undertaken. The originally proposed two tranche operation would have been put at $80
million and the amounts might even have been back-loaded given the weight attached to conditions for
second tranche release. The increase in the size of the first tranche relative to the amount agreed with the
government by the preparation mission sends the wrong signals to the borrower and reduces the credibility
of our follow-up operations. In addition, as mentioned above, the funds were not used to capitalize the
NFRA which had been the motivation for topping-up.

3. When a single tranche operation such as this goes forward, the focus of the preparation and review
needs to be not on measures already taken, but on the list of so-called 'subsequent actions'.    In general
these should be expressed in specific terms with timing associated with them. Ideally a set of actions
should be defined for one year into the future and a second set for two years into the future.    This then
provides the Government with a very clear indication of the kind of conditionality likely to be associated
with future lending. For critical areas (such as ADMARC) where conditionality is not included in the
current operation, but it will be a critical element of follow up adjustment credit, it is important that this be
noted in the text and also reflected in the matrix so that subsequent proposals for conditionality in these
areas do not come as a surprise to the Government.



                                                      - 12 -

4. Two areas of the credit represent major successes where the Malawian experience may be replicable for
other countries.   The approach of setting up an independent revenue authority with a fixed percentage of
collections allocation to it for its operations seems to have worked extremely well in providing the
motivation which the agency needed. Initially this percentage was set at 1.65% but it has subsequently
been raised to 2.25%. Secondly Malawi's success in privatizing both the commercial banks and petroleum
import sector in a small market where there is only room for a limited number of enterprises, suggests that
with setting appropriate rules of the game, these can still result in significant efficiency gains.

5.   This operation underlines yet again the importance of having good analytic work as a basis for World
Bank lending and support to governments. The program of analytic work needs to be designed
strategically, however, to avoid the risk of designing conditionality in the areas where solid analytical
underpinnings already exist, instead of focusing on areas which are critical to the overall success of the
Government's reform program.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Government has prepared its own evaluation report of the FRDP III. The report is attached
unedited in Annex 7. In addition, the Government has provided comments on the Bank's report. These
are presented below. The Government comments highlight the fact that since completion of this report
the Public Finance Management Bill, the Public Audit Bill and the Procurement Bill have been approved
by Parliament in May 2003.




                                                       - 13 -

- 14 -

- 15 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 16 -

             Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                             FRDP III Policy Matrix and Actual Performance

Diagnosis                 Actions before Board            Subsequent Actions/             Actual performance in 2001/02 and 2002/03
                                                          Medium Term Objectives
A. Public Sector
    Management
Expenditure
rationalization
Shortage of outlays       Increased allocations in the    The share of education sector                                        Revised est. Revised est. Budget
for operation and         2000/2001 Budget for other      expenditure in discretionary                                           2000/01      2001/02 2002/03
maintenance in key        recurrent transactions          recurrent budget will be        Education sector expenditure in
sectors.                  (ORT) in education, health,     maintained at, at least 23%.    discretionary recurrent expenditure       21.0%        29.1%       29.1%
                          agriculture, road
                          maintenance, community                                          Health sector expenditure in
                          development and gender          The share of health sector      discretionary recurrent expenditure       12.1%         15.2%      18.5%
                          development.                    expenditure in discretionary
                                                          recurrent budget will be        Agriculture sector expenditure in
                                                          maintained at, at least 13%.    discretionary recurrent expenditure       13.9%         6.6%        7.7%

                                                                                          Gender / Youth / Community development expenditure
                                                                                          in discretionary recurrent expenditure     0.5%          1.0%       1.6%
Primary education:        The share of primary            Achieve yearly enrollment of                                         Revised est. Revised est. Budget
Allocation inadequate     education in ORT increased      6000 students for teacher                                              2000/01      2001/02 2002/03
and shortage of           from 4.8% of the total ORT      training and institute in       Share of primary education in ORT          2.7%          7.3%       6.5%
personnel in key          in 1999/2000 to 5.4% of         service training for all
areas.                    total ORT in 2000/2001.         primary school teachers at                                                        2001/02     2002/03
                                                          least once a year.              Number of students enrolled for teacher training:       2489        3156

                                                          Prepackage donor supplied       The Ministry has introduced a Textbook Revolving Fund system where books
                                                          primary textbooks for each      are bought through a book fare. Schools choose their appropriate books from a
                                                          school to be delivered          book fare and the suppliers of the chosen books pack and deliver them straight to
                                                          directly from supplier to the   the schools.
                                                          school.
                                                                                          For donor-supplied books the donors themselves deliver the books directly from
                                                                                          the port to the schools.
Secondary education:      Reduced budgetary               Eliminate the subsidy for                                            Revised est. Revised est. Budget
Disparity in quality      allocation for boarding in      boarding in secondary                                                  2000/01      2001/02 2002/03
between conventional      Conventional Secondary          schools.                        Share of CSS boarding in ORT             Budget data not available, but
(boarding) secondary      Schools (CSS) from 16% of                                                                              amount of funding to boarding
schools and the           recurrent expenditures in                                                                              has not been reduced.
community secondary       1999/2000 to 8.7% of
day schools due to        recurrent expenditures in                                       Secondary school annual fees increased from MWK 200 to 6000 p.a.
disparity in Government 2000/2001 and re-allocated
funding.                  saved money to qualitative
                          inputs.
Tertiary education:       Announced cost recovery         Further expand the cost         University of Malawi fees increased from MWK 1500 to 25000 p.a.
High Government           policy in tertiary education    recovery through increasing     (But a universal loan scheme was introduced in 2002/03 which is being
subsidy.                  by increasing fees.             fees. In parallel develop a     administered as a grant, i.e. no repayments are anticipated)
                                                          bursary fund to ensure that     University of Malawi new full cost programs for MWK 210000 p.a.
                                                          poor students are not           University of Mzuzu fees remained MWK 50000 p.a. and scholarship system
                                                          adversely affected.             continues as before.

                                                          Contract out catering at        Catering has not been contracted out.
                                                          tertiary institutions.
Health sector:            Increased the share of health   Annually recruit, train and                                          Revised est. Revised est. Budget
Allocation inadequate     sector ORT expenditure in       deploy at least two hundred                                            2000/01      2001/02 2002/03
and shortage of           total ORT expenditure from      nurse technicians, fifty new    Share of health sector in ORT             15.8%        17.5%      24.2%
personnel in key areas.   13% in 1999/2000 to             medical assistants, and
                          14.5% in 2000/2001.             twenty new radiography                                                             2001/02 2002/03
                                                          technicians.                    Number of students enrolled for nurse training:           435        435
                                                                                          Number of students enrolled medical assistant training: 100           175
                                                                                          Number of students enrolled radiography technician:        20          20

 1. Includes Ministry of Education, Universities, MANEB, MIE, Scholarship fund, and Polytechnic Board of Governors.
 2. Discretionary recurrent spending is defined as `Total Recurrent Expenditures' minus `Statutory Expenditures' (i.e. interest on debt, pensions and gratuities, and
 the Office of the President).




                                                                                      - 17 -

Diagnosis                 Actions before Board           Subsequent Actions/               Actual performance in 2001/02 and 2002/03
                                                         Medium Term Objectives
Medicinal drugs           Increased allocation of        Implement the reform of the                                            Revised est. Revised est. Budget
allocation and            medicinal drugs in             Central Medical Stores (CMS)                                             2000/01      2001/02 2002/03
distribution:             2000/2001 Budget to $ 1.17                                       Allocation of medicinal drugs
Allocation inadequate     per capita to approximate                                        (USD per capita):                         $1.48         $1.44     $1.23
and distribution          better health in Africa (BHA)
inefficient.              targets.                                                         The implementation of the CMS reform has not yet started.
Cost recovery:            Announced a cost recovery      Use partial or full cost recovery Cost recovery policy introduced for passports, visas, motor vehicle licenses and
Subsidy for goods and     policy including a schedule of where the case for public         police reports, but collections are not remitted to MOF.
services which do not     prices to be charged for       provision of goods or services
have a strong public      passports, visas, motor        is weak.
good element.             vehicle licenses and police
                          reports.
Rationalization of        Established a detailed         Establish a mechanism by          The rationalization of development projects has not occurred. The database at
development projects:     project database within        which all proposed new            the MOF is neither used nor updated.
Development budget        Ministry of Finance            projects are screened by a
coverage incomplete       expanding the coverage to      specifically created
for aid financed          aid financed projects.         committee chaired by a
projects and project                                     senior official of the Ministry
prioritization weak.      Restricted entry of new        of Finance.
                          projects in the 2000/2001
                          Budget to only high priority   Continue the process of
                          sectors on the basis of the    rationalization of the
                          PER.                           development budget.

                          Restricted, suspended or
                          dropped specific
                          low-priority projects in the
                          2000/2001 Budget.
Expenditure
Management
Fiscal transparency:      Announced a "Ten Point         Budgetary outturns for core       Information on Budget expenditures has not been posted on web since Board
Expenditure outcomes      Plan" to improve financial     programs will be posted on        approval date.
are not publicly          management.                    the web with a delay of no
available until after the                                more than six months.
end of the fiscal year.   Posted on a Government
                          web site expenditure on
                          core programs in the
                          2000/2001 Budget, and
                          actual outturn as of
                          September 2000.
Expenditure arrears:      Issued circular (March         By end 2000, an Integrated        Commitment register is maintained pro-forma and data are not reliable (i.e. do
Arrears by                2000) requiring controlling    Management Financial              not coincide with actual commitments). Data submitted are not verified and
Government to the         officers to maintain an        Information System (IFMIS)        Ministries continue to be funded irrespectively. Cash budget system with credit
domestic private          up-to-date commitment          will be introduced in four key    ceiling authority is not enforced and arrears are persistently accumulated.
sector had a tendency     register. Ministries which     ministries to inhibit             Sanctions are never enforced.
to build up since early   do not submit the              over-spending and provide
1998.                     commitment and                 timely information on over        IFMIS pilot in four ministries only begun in late 2002 (and should be completed
                          expenditure returns timely     commitments. This will be         shortly) in the context of the proposed FIMTAP project.
                          would not be funded.           expanded to all ministries
                                                         over three years.
                          Strengthened the monthly
                          cash budget system by
                          introducing quarterly credit
                          ceiling authority system to
                          allow ministries to plan
                          expenditures in advance as
                          well as avoid accumulation
                          of arrears.
Parastatal finances:      Created a new parastatal       Finances of 5 largest             Parastatal Monitoring Unit (PERMU) is operational and produces quarterly
Monitoring is weak.       monitoring unit in the         parastatals posted on the web     reports on parastatal finances. Information in not posted on the web however
                          MOF.                           will be updated with a delay      (not even the end of year accounts).
                                                         of no more than six months.
                          Balance sheets and profit                                        System for authorizing parastatal borrowing still being discussed. Part of
                          and loss accounts of 5         A new system for authorizing      Financial Management Act to be submitted in Parliament in April 2003.
                          largest parastatals, as of     parastatal borrowing will be      Government has not authorized parastatal borrowing in 2001/02 and 2002/03



                                                                                     - 18 -

                         June 2000, have been           designed and implemented.        however (except for NFRA - see below).
                         posted on the web.
Auditing reform:         Cabinet has taken the          Draft and pass legislation to    Financial Management Bill and Audit Bill to be submitted to Parliament in
The capacity and the     decision to separate the       create new legislation to        April 2003.
authority of the         financial management and       separate the financial
Auditor-General are      auditing functions by          management and auditing          Auditor-General Office is not independent and funding is determined by MOF.
weak.                    enacting new legislation.      functions.
                                                                                         Audit coverage of ministries from 45% in 1999 to approx 60% in 2002.
                         Initiated the contracting of   Create a fully independent
                         TA for the Accountant          Auditor-General's office, with
                         General and Auditor            adequate staffing, budgetary
                         General's office.              provision.

                                                        Raise the audit coverage of
                                                        ministries from 45% in 1999
                                                        to 75% in 2002.
Procurement reform       Cabinet has approved the       By 2002, using the TA            Implementation of procurement reforms has not yet started.
Procurement is           results of the phase I of the  operation, put in place a new
centralized, straining   study which decentralizes      legal framework for the
capacity and leading     the procurement process,       procurement authority and
to delays and            and has directed the           create a well staffed authority
mis-procurement.         Ministry of Finance to         and a transparent
                         proceed with the               procurement process.
                         implementation.
Tax administration       Created a fully functional,    Further improve the MRA          Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA) is fully operational and has been performing
There is scope for       self financing Malawi          operations by staff training.    extremely well, as reflected by an increase in tax revenues of approx 3.5% of
improvement in           Revenue Authority (MRA).                                        GDP (in part to be attributed to changes in tax policy). Provision for MRA
revenue collection as    The budget makes a                                              retention increased to 2.25% of tax revenue.
evasion is               provision for MRA to retain
commonplace.             1.65% of the tax revenue to
                         finance its operations.

B. Private Sector
    Development
Financial sector
Reforms
The financial sector is  Commercial Bank of             Complete by early 2001 a         CBM has been privatized. Other banking and financial institutions have also
publicly owned and       Malawi (CBM) brought to        new comprehensive                entered the market.
oligopolistic.           the point of sale by issuing   regulatory framework.
Efficiency, as measured an information                                                   Comprehensive regulatory framework has not been prepared.
by interest rate spreads memorandum.                    Conclude the sale of the
and the limited range of                                CBM
financial instruments, is
low.
Privatization of
infrastructure
(transactions)
Infrastructure services  The Malawi Posts and           Will issue an information        MTL has not yet been privatized. Previous attempt failed in mid-2002 as one
are among the top        Telecommunications             memorandum (IM) for the          member of consortium identified as preferred bidder pulled out. A new process
constraints to private   Corporation (MPTC)             sale of Malawi                   has been started.
sector development.      legally separated into two     Telecommunications Limited
                         corporate entities.            shares before the credit is      Cellular services have been liberalized (currently 2 licences and a third is being
                                                        effective.                       considered).
                         Registration for internet
                         service providers (ISPs)       Full liberalization of cellular
                         fully liberalized (15 ISPs     services by 2003.
                         registered to date).
                                                        Full liberalization of all
                         Communicated policy            telecom services (gateways,
                         decision for a limited         VSATs for voice linking
                         liberalization of basic        networks) by 2005.
                         telephony services.

                         Published a request for
                         expression of interest for the
                         purchase and subscription
                         of shares in the MTL.
Liberalization of
Petroleum Marketing:




                                                                                     - 19 -

Up to 1999 imports       Private imports of               A petroleum supply study         Petroleum importing and marketing has been privatized.
were carried out by      petroleum legalized.             will be carried out to examine
the Petroleum Control                                     further liberalization of the    ORTEX has been liquidated in May 2002.
Commission (PCC), a      Private sector imports of        petroleum markets.
parastatal. There were   petroleum began May 1,
problems of              2000.                            Privatize ORTEX by May
account-abi-lity and                                      2002.
transparency in the      PCC split into a regulatory
PCC.                     agency (also called PCC)
Prices of petroleum      and a supplier of storage
products were            services (called ORTEX).
unnecessarily high
due to the lack of       ORTEX has so far not
competition.             engaged in any market
                         operations.

Diagnosis                Actions before Board             Subsequent Actions/              Actual performance in 2001/02 and 2002/03
                                                          Medium Term Objectives
C. Safety nets
Safety net strategy
There is no coordinated Approved a national safety        Ensure that all old and new      Implementation of the NSNS has not yet started.
safety net strategy,     nets strategy (NSNS).            safety net programs are
leading to waste,        Created an institutional         designed and prioritized in
duplication of efforts   structure to implement the       line with the medium term
and gaps in coverage.    strategy.                        objectives of the NSNS.

Starter Pack Program
Restructuring the        Converted the Starter Pack       Gradually reduce the TIP         TIP introduced in 2000/01 and 2001/02. Decision to revert to universal TIP
Starter Pack Program,    Program to a Targeted Input      coverage and improve the         (donor funded) in 2002/03, as a result of recent food crisis. The intention is to
which is currently       Program (TIP) covering only      targeting mechanisms and         reduce number of TIP beneficiaries over time, but no clear plan has been
untargeted and therefore 1.5 million households for the integrate it within the NSNS.      decided.
fiscally unsustainable   2000/01 planting season
and cost ineffective.    compared to a coverage of
                         2.89 million households in
                         the last season.

                         Reduced budgetary allocation
                         to the TIP from $27 million
                         in 1999/2000 to $2 million
                         equivalent in the 2000/2001
                         Budget.
Restructuring
National Food
Reserve Agency
The National Food        Amended the NFRA deed to         Develop NFRA into a well         Unauthorized sales of NFRA maize stocks by ADMARC led to the absence of
Reserve Agency           restrict it to being a strategic functioning strategic grain      maize reserves at the time of food crisis. Reserves have since been restocked.
(NFRA) lacks a           grain reserve exclusively        reserve as per the new deed.
rationally defined       involved in disaster and                                          The government did not use part of the FRDP III credit to capitalize NFRA, as
mandate, clear rules     relief activities. This brings                                    had been agreed. In addition, the government authorized new borrowing by
of intervention, and     the NFRA under the                                                NFRA at non-concessional rates, which led to a subsequent bailout of NFRA in
financial ceilings.      National Safety Net                                               2001/02.
                         strategy as one of the
                         poverty relief instruments
                         for emergency situations.

                         Taken the decision to limit
                         the maize stocks to be held
                         by the NFRA to 60,000
                         tones. No new funds
                         programmed in the 2000/01
                         budget, or new borrowing
                         was authorized.

                         Tenders have been invited
                         from private traders to sell
                         excess stocks. So far
                         72,000 tones have been
                         contracted to be sold.




                                                                                       - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                          Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                          US$ million  US$ million
Balance of Payment support (credit 34520) - single
tranche, January 29, 2001
Of which: credit                                           55.10         55.52
          IDA reflows                                       0.50           0.50

Total Baseline Cost                                        55.60         56.02
                        Total Project Costs                55.60         56.02
                  Total Financing Required                 55.60         56.02




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

n.a.




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/14/1999 to             23    1 Sector Manager
               10/19/2000                      9 Economists
                                               2 FMS
                                               1 Health Specialist
                                               1 Agriculture Specialist
                                               4 Consultants
                                               2 RAs
                                               2 ACS


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               08/28/2000 to             14    7 Economists
               12/21/2000                      2 Agricultural Specialists
                                               1 Procurement Specialist
                                               1 Financial Specialist
                                               1 RA
                                               1 Consultant
                                               1 ACS


 Supervision
               No supervision
               (single tranche
               operation)


 ICR
               11/01/2002 to              5     2 Economists
               03/31/2003                       1 Consultant
                                                1 RA
                                                1 ACS



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                61.9                          237.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     34.3                          117.4
  Supervision
  ICR                                          8                            25.0
  Total                                    104.3                          379.8




                                                - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


                                          MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                                          EVALUATION REPORT
                                                     ON A
                                               LOAN/CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 43.5 MILLION (US$ 55.6 MILLION) AND SDR 2.4 MILLION (US$
                              3 MILLION) AS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                       TO
                                     THE MALAWI GOVERNMENT
                                                  FOR THE
      THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM (FRDP III)

                                              DECEMBER 2002


1.      The Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP III)

1.1.    Overview

Soon after 1994, the democratically elected Government embarked on a large and complex agenda of policy
reforms and institutional change to uplift the economy from deterioration due to external shocks and poor
economic management. One such policy reform was the Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation
Program (FRDP III) supported by the World Bank (see Table 1). The Government got a credit of SDR43.5
million (US$55.6 million equivalent) from the International Development Association (IDA) in support of
the continuation of structural reform program. The project document was signed on December 21, 2000
and application number 1 amounting to SDR43.1 million was paid on January 30, 2001. The credit helped
to meet balance of payment financing requirements.

FRDP III was designed to consolidate gains arising from structural reforms undertaken under the First and
Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP I and II). FRDP III's aim was to further
deepen the reform process with a view to ensuring macroeconomic stability and promoting sustainable
economic growth with poverty reduction. The credit included Technical Assistance (TA) amounting to
SDR 2.4 million (US$3.0 million equivalent) (see Table 2). This report been done in the context of the
evaluation of the FRDP III structural adjustment credit which closed on June 30, 2002. Some of the
comments raised, however, may pertain to the FRDP III technical assistance credit as well. The technical
assistance credit is still ongoing and is expected to close in December 2003.

1.2.    Objectives of FRDP III

The FRDP III continued the adjustment agenda, which was set to:
       Improve the management of the public sector through increased transparency and rationalization of
expenditure in line with defined priorities,
       Strengthen the Government's procurement and auditing services,
       Encourage private sector development through liberalization of key sectors, and
       Introduce a national safety net strategy.




                                                      - 26 -

The FRDP III credit included Technical Assistance (TA) funds to assist in the following areas:
        Evaluation of the impact of the FRDP III program, and
        Development of the agenda for the next macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms.

2.       Structural Components

The project consisted of the following three major components: public sector management, private sector
development and safety net.

2.1.     Public Sector Management

This component was aimed at the following:
        Improving the allocation of public expenditure in line with the recommendations of the public
expenditure review (Joint World Bank and Malawi Government Public Expenditure Review 2001),
        Improving the transparency and monitoring of public expenditure, and
        Improving efficiency by operationalizing the Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA).

2.2.     Private Sector Development

This component was aimed at the following:
        Liberalizing Telecommunications,
        Liberalizing petroleum import/retail marketing, and
        Liberalizing the financial sector.

2.3.     Safety Net

This component sought to do the following:
        Designing and creating an institutional structure for implementation of a National Safety Net
Strategy (NSNS),
        Transforming the starter pack program into a targeted input program (TIP) and incorporating it
into the NSNS, and
        Reforming the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) and limiting its role to that of a strategic
grain reserve engaged in disaster and relief operations.

3.       Achievement of Development Objective

The main objective of FRDP III was to support policy reforms designed to accelerate economic growth and
reduce poverty. However, the economic prospects show that the country had little potential to achieve high
economic growth. The macroeconomic situation remains tenuous as private sector activity is being strained
by an extended period of expansionary fiscal policies (see Table 3). Real gross domestic product (GDP)
growth slowed down from 8.2 percent in 1996 to 2.0 percent in 2000 and the economy grew by 4.5
percent in 2001 compared to a projection of 2.3 percent for the year. The situation was compounded with
the problem of food shortage in 2001/02. According to the latest information, the economy grew by 1.8
percent in 2002. The economic stagnation reflected the contraction in the small-scale agriculture and
manufacturing sectors.

Despite failing to achieve the targeted economic growth, money growth of 17 percent was recorded and
fiscal deficit (after grant) decreased from 4 percent of GDP in 1999/2000 to 2.8 percent of GDP in



                                                    - 27 -

2000/2001. In addition, inflation and interest rates continued to decline. On a good note, inflation in 2002
decelerated to 14.8 percent compared to 27.5 percent in 2001. The slow down of inflation was due to tight
monetary policy and improved availability of imported food, which dampened pressure on food inflation.
As of November 2002 interest rate (bank rate) stood at 40 percent (See economic report 2002, NEC,
Government of Malawi).

However, the development objective of supporting the Malawi Government to implement the FRDP III has
been achieved to some varied degree. More specifically, the reforms have improved the poverty focus of
public expenditures and created a more favorable environment for the operation of the private sector. The
share of expenditures going to health, education, gender, youth and community services has increased over
the entire period. The country has experienced a marked increase in gross primary education enrollment
rates due to increased resources combined with the policy of universal free primary education.

In the private sector, much progress has been observed in privatizing the major commercial banks, namely,
the Commercial Bank of Malawi and the National Bank of Malawi. Following the liberalization of the
telecommunications sector, there are now several players participating in the sector. In the safety net part,
the Government has instituted the targeted input programme (TIP), which targets the most vulnerable and
poor Malawi.

4.       Assessment of Outcome

4.1      Public Sector Management

4.1.1    Public Expenditure Rationalization

The reforms have improved the poverty focus of public expenditures and created a more favorable
environment for the operation of the private sector. Since 1998, the Government has made an effort to
prioritise expenditures. As indicated in Table 4, the share of expenditures going to health, education and
community services has increased over the period under review. In the 2002/03 budget, the allocations to
pro-poor expenditure (PPE) programs increased by 4.4 percent of GDP, building upon the already higher
allocation for Pro-Poor Expenditures (PPEs) in the 2001/02 budget, which increased by over 2 percent of
GDP. More specifically, the observed outcomes are as follows:

Education

In the education sector, free primary education has greatly improved access to primary education.
Enrolment is estimated to be about 3.3 million. However, the quality and internal efficiency of the system
has been compromised. To respond to this issue, the Government increased resource allocations to teaching
and learning materials from K146 million in 2000/01 to K600 million in 2001/02 whereas allocation for
teacher training increased from K81.1 million in 2000/01 to K350 million in 2001/02. The resources have
been used to train 2849 and 3156 teachers who were enrolled in 2001 and 2002, respectively.

Complemented by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), 11.4 million textbooks, worth
15 million Canadian Dollars, have been delivered to all the primary schools. This ensured textbook for
every primary school pupil. The United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID) has
also included an allocation for teaching and learning materials for 1,936 schools in its seven-year Support
to Education Sector Programme (SESP). The Government has also introduced a Textbook Revolving Fund
(TRF) and students are contributing K250.00 per year for the replacement of torn and lost books.




                                                    - 28 -

In a bid to achieve full contribution towards some goods and services, Government revised secondary
school boarding fees from K30 per term to K1, 500 per term. This was intended to shift resources
previously earmarked for secondary schools to primary education. In addition, students at the University of
Malawi are now required to contribute K25, 000.00 per year as opposed to K1, 500.00 per year, which
was the case before. At the University of Mzuzu, students are paying a financial contribution of
K45,000.00 per year. Furthermore, parallel programmes have been introduced whereby students are paying
full cost of the programmes. For those students who cannot afford to pay, the Government provides loans.
At the moment, the criteria are being developed which will consider needy students and those who are
eligible for loans. A proposal is under consideration to administer loans in districts.

Health

Since 2000/01 fiscal year, Other Recurrent Transaction (ORT) expenditure allocations to the health sector
have been budgeted above the program target of 13 percent of total recurrent expenditure ORT (See Table
4). Much effort has been made in the area of human development. Hence, in 2001/02, a total of 54 health
worker tutors were enrolled for an upgrading course at Mzuzu University. In other health worker training
institutions, as many as 1,086 health workers are earmarked for training annually. Cadres being trained are
nurses, clinical officers, medical assistants, laboratory technicians, pharmacy technicians and radiography
technicians. Further to this, the Government will recruit more auxiliary nurses to cater for the shortage of
nurses in the country.

Government has drastically increased allocations for essential drugs and pharmaceuticals to more than
US$1.25 per capita, World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended standard for Sub-Sahara Africa. To
enhance efficiency and effectiveness in procurement and distribution of drugs and pharmaceuticals,
Government is in the process of reviewing organizational structure and functions of the Central Medical
Stores (CMS).

Cost Recovery

Government has managed to implement cost recovery policies including the scheduling of fees. The cost of
applying for passports has been raised from K250.00 to K4,000.00 and the Government is intending to
increase further to fully cover the whole cost of processing a passport. In addition, the general public is
now required to meet costs of police reports, passports, licenses, some health services, and tuition and
boarding fees in secondary schools.

4.1.1    Expenditure Management

In the expenditure management area, the Government is working hard in making the pro poor expenditure
outcomes publicly made available by posting them on Ministry of Finance website. Since December 2002,
the Government started publishing the pro-poor expenditures returns in the local media. The Government is
also straining its efforts in reducing the accumulation of arrears, especially to the domestic private sector.
Further to this, there is some considerable work in improving the monitoring of parastatal finances,
improving the capacity and authority of the Auditor General and improving procurement processes in
Malawi. More specifically, the following are being undertaken:

        The Government has set conditions to improve fiscal transparency whereby budgetary outturns for
core programs are posted on the Ministry of Finance website. Effort is being made to improve existing
reporting systems to capture the transactions on a weekly basis. The Government is enhancing the
computerization of the Credit Ceiling Allocation (CCA) system through a project in the Reserve Bank of


                                                     - 29 -

Malawi. Monitoring reports are being produced on a regular basis and being reviewed by the Cabinet
Committee on the Economy to crosscheck diversions in the budget.
       The Government is also monitoring and preventing expenditure arrears by undertaking a
comprehensive inventory of all payment arrears as of June 2002. Ministries and/or Departments are also
able to produce and maintain an up-to-date expenditure commitment register. The actual commitments,
however, are restricted to a monthly CCA. To facilitate this further, the Government has extended the
agency payment system to a number of line ministries experiencing a large accumulation of utility arrears.
The question is quality of financial statements and information in the commitment registers.
       The Government has also established the Public Enterprise Reform and Monitoring Unit (PERMU)
in the Ministry of Finance to monitor the financial performance of the ten largest public enterprises,
including the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), the Electricity Supply
Corporation of Malawi (ESCOM), the Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL), the Malawi Housing
Corporation, Blantyre Water Board, and Southern Region Water Board. Guidelines have been developed
for borrowing by parastatals and are awaiting Cabinet approval. Some key parastatals have already started
declaring dividends to the government for the first time in history (For examples of parastatals, which have
declared dividends to the government, see the Budget Statement 2002/03).
       Under the FRDP III TA component, the Government is in the process of separating the current
Finance and Audit Act into the Public Finance Management and the Public Audit legislations. Change
Consulting from New Zealand have already finalized the preparation of the drafts of Public Finance
Management Bill and Public Audit Bill and stakeholders meetings have been completed. The Task Force
working on the review has already visited South Africa and New Zealand to learn from the experiences of
these countries. It is expected that the bills will be presented to Cabinet and Parliament in early 2003. The
Government is also facilitating the institutional reform program for National Audit Office. Cowater
International Consultant from Canada has done the institutional reform of National Audit Office. All
deliverables (manuals) except the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament report have been produced.
This aims at strengthening the capacity and authority of technical advisory services (See Table 5). The
office of the Auditor-General has recruited 15 graduates and 22 other personnel with ACCA to improve
capacity.

       With procurement reform, the program proposed the development of the new Procurement Act and
supporting regulation, the creation of National Procurement Authority and Procurement Code, the
implementation of capacity building program for procurement cadre, the rationalization of stores, and
introduction of computerized stores. Currently, Cabinet has approved the new Procurement Bill. In
addition, recruitment of consultants on capacity building program for procurement cadre is underway.
Equipments such as vehicles have already been purchased. Other outputs have not been achieved and a
schedule to these activities has been changed and was discussed with the World Bank (See Table 5, Table 6
and Table 7).

Despite these achievements, public expenditure management has not been satisfactory. Although the
Government has managed to contain aggregate expenditure in line with the total budget, the actual
allocation fall short of the desired cash flow funding due to low revenue collections and donor withdraw.
Much of the little that is collected is allocated to statutory expenditures, especially public debt.

4.1.2   Resource Mobilization

FRDP III was designed to improve tax administration in order to foster the increase in revenue collection
through proper operationalisation of the Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA). So far, the Government has
implemented several tax measures such as the extension of surtax to the wholesale and retail stages, and the



                                                       - 30 -

increase of the excise and duty rates on motor vehicles and alcohol. The Government has also temporarily
suspended discretionary duty exemptions other than on donations or imports by diplomatic missions.

There is also on going capacity building in MRA to strengthen tax administration and enforcement. MRA
is further computerizing its operations, recruiting and training staff to monitor tax receipts and ensuring a
reduction in delays for the refund of surtax to small businesses. The Government has now improved the
collection of tax from 15 percent of GDP to 17 percent of GDP. With the extension of surtax to the
wholesale and retail stages, the Government envisages a further increase in tax collection. However,
between March 2000 and February 2001, MRA collected on average MK64.59 for every MK1.00 they
spent from the 1.65 percent retention fee whereas the Customs and Income Tax Department collected
MK104.55 for every MK1.00 they spent from budgetary allocations (see "Revenue Collection...Which
Way", Quarterly Tax Bulletin, August 2001). It seems that MRA operations are more costly than was the
case when Government departments collected the revenues. This is a result of high overheads being
incurred by the MRA. Hence, there is further need to improve the restructuring of MRA and building
capacity to strengthen tax administration and enforcement.

4.2     Private Sector Development

Under the FRDP, the Government embarked on a privatization program that started with the manufacturing
sector but is now being extended to utilities and infrastructure sectors. Assessing the outcome of this
program, the following are observed:
       Solid progress has been made on telecommunications, which has currently seen an increase in the
number of cellular operators (there are 2 registered operators and the third operator is on the verge of being
registered) and the number of cell phones. The number of cell phones has increased from 5,000 in 1995 to
24,000 in 1999. In addition, telephone penetration rate has greatly improved.
       In the financial sector, Commercial Bank of Malawi has been privatized (December 2001).
Indebank was made a commercial bank in 2002 and Cabinet has approved a comprehensive review of the
financial sector regulatory framework.
       Similarly, liberalization of petroleum marketing has been most successful. At the moment, private
companies are importing petroleum without restrictions. There has been mushrooming of filling stations all
over the country, both by individuals and companies.
       The Government is commercializing ADMARC in preparation for its privatization. Much
progress has been made to privatize or liquidate ADMARC's non-core assets as David Whitehead and
Sons, Shire Bus Lines, Grain and Milling, and Cold Storage. Similarly the Government has instructed the
Preivatization Commission to divest ADMARC's minority shareholdings (in Sugar Corporation of Malawi
and the National Bank of Malawi Limited).
       However, the performance of the private sector has not been satisfactory owing to a number of
obstacles. Key obstacles include macroeconomic instability (high interest and inflation rates and unstable
exchange rate), high transport and infrastructure costs, management constraints and considerable
involvement in the economy by Government through statutory corporations.

4.3     Create a Safety Net
       A National Safety Nets Programme (NSNP) forms main features of the Malawi Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (MPRSP). The NSNP has four components, namely, Safety Nets Inputs Sub-Programme
(SNIP), Public Works Sub-Programme (PWP), Targeted Nutrition Sub-Programme (TNP), and Direct
Transfers Scheme (DTS). The four components are not exclusive as have areas of overlap between them,
which can be utilized to improve targeting, and the delivery of transfers.
       Government approved the NSNP Programme Concept Document in February 2002. According to



                                                    - 31 -

the programme, the policy design and review shall remain the responsibility of the Department of Economic
Planning and Development (DEPD). The Ministry of Poverty Alleviation Programmes, Disaster
Preparedness and Rehabilitation shall coordinate the implementation of the programme with districts
directly involved in the actual implementation. DEPD will also coordinate the monitoring and evaluation of
the programme and indicators have been developed for monitoring progress and impact of the programme.
        Many donors have been supporting different types of safety net activities and DFID has provided
significant levels of funding in recent years. The Department is providing institutional support to the
DEPD, involved in pilot safety net projects, supporting expanded public works programme through the
Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF). It is also supporting the targeted inputs programme (TIP).
        The Government implemented the targeted inputs programme in the 2001/02 agricultural season.
The intervention involved free distribution of inputs (cereals seeds, legumes seeds and fertilizer) to resource
poor Malawians. Apart from the Government and DFID, the European Union (EU) also funded the
programme. The programme targeted 2 million beneficiaries in 2001/02 and it is proposed that 3 million
people will benefit from TIP in 2002/03. Nevertheless, Malawi is food insecure due to drought and
over-flooding in some areas. As such, the number of beneficiaries was increased in 2002/03 to service most
vulnerable groups.
        Under the new arrangement supported by the World Bank, the National Food Reserve Agency
(NFRA) was designed purely for emergency relief operations in times of drought and ADMARC has been
restricted to commercial operations. However, with the experience of a severe food crisis in early 2002,
NRFA, on behalf of the Government, imported maize for sale to ADMARC. Hence, the Government needs
to revisit the NFRA operational policy, concentrating on level of stocks, self-financing of NFRA and
storage facilities.

5        Other Reforms under FRDP III TA

5.1.     Wage Policy Review

The government is developing a medium-term wage policy linked to civil service reform to improve wage
competitiveness, lower attrition rates and strengthen public sector performance. A consultant has been
contracted to work on this and work is currently in progress. An inception report has been prepared and
discussed with Government and it is expected that the work will be finalized by end February 2003.

5.2.     Other Studies

The TA component has also assisted in carrying out further studies to improve public sector management
through the provision of technical advisory services. On macro and sectoral reforms, the project has catered
for the following studies: Quantitative Model for Macroeconomic and Poverty Scenarios; Costing for
Poverty Reduction Strategy; Food Availability and Accessibility Assessment; Tax Reform Study; and
Energy Policy Study. The last two were under FRDP II but were completed with some funds from FRDP
III (See table 8 for studies done under FRDP).

6.       Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The project has been significantly affected by factors within and outside the control of Government as
follows:
        The TA credit was supposed to be implemented by the Ministry of Finance under the supervision
of the Secretary to the Treasury where a Task force was supposed to guide each aspect of the TA program.
However, there was lack of coordination in the implementation of various activities with respect to



                                                    - 32 -

proposed components.
        All procurements were carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Procurement of local equipments under the project followed
Government procedures through approval by Internal Procurement Committee (IPC) in the Government
Contracting- Out Unit.
        The hiring of all consultants was done after the approval of the World Bank but the procedure was
long and tended to be delayed, especially with small consultancies.
        Lack of capacity in the implementation of the projects, especially the accounting personnel.
        The delay in the follow up of financial inflows after the first tranche, especially with the TA
component, which has so far received a disbursement amounting to SDR400,000. Disbursement has been
low due to delays in the procurement reform process.
        Under FRDP II, there was a Task Force, which monitored all the progress done under the program.
Under FRDP III, the TA component has a Task Force that is monitoring the progress of the review of the
current Public Finance and Audit Act but not the whole FRDP III TA Component. This makes it difficult
to follow on the progress being made in the implementation of the Project.

7.       Cost and Financing

The Project has performed well within the activities it has executed but has yet to spend funds on
consultancy, workshops and conferences in the review of Public Finance and Audit Act. Under FRDP III
TA Component, the Government raised concern regarding the disbursement categories listed in schedule 1
of the DCA that are inconsistent with the expenditure categories agreed at negotiations for procurement
reform. In that, no provision was made for operating costs (refer to letter dated 31st July 2002 to the World
Bank entitled `Malawi-FRDP III TA (Cr. 3451-MAI), Proposed Amendments of Schedule 1 and Schedule
6 to the DCA'). In view of this, Government requested the Bank in early August 2002 to amend Schedule 1
to the DCA to allow operating costs to be eligible for financing under the credit. A reply is being awaited
from the Bank.

Disbursements and withdraw of funds were subject to the conditions of the Credit Agreement. Payments for
local purchases of office equipment has been settled both by foreign and local contributions as stipulated in
the DCA. As indicated in table 9, the whole tranche of FRDP III was disbursed but the reflow of the TA
Component was done once on January 11, 2002. As pointed out earlier, the delay is due to some unresolved
issues in the procurement reform. The same picture is depicted in table 10 under FRDP III TA project cost
allocation and expenditures.

8.       Bank's Performance

The Bank was very much instrumental in supporting implementation of the FRDP III TA Credit. The Bank
has assisted in drawing the logical framework of the Project and has also facilitated the monitoring and
implementation of the Project. The Bank has established the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Task Force
from various projects. The Task Force has been reviewing the progress of various projects, FRDP III TA
project inclusive.

Within this short period the Bank has mounted supervision missions to monitor the technical assistance part
of the FRDP III credit and several meetings with the Bank's staff have been held. In these meetings, the
Bank has provided guidance on the preparation of progress reports and draft Aid- Memoires have been
submitted to Government. It is observed that these draft Aid Memoires should be submitted to Government
earlier before wrap-up meetings for maximum consultations in Government. Overall, therefore, Bank



                                                     - 33 -

performance has been satisfactory during preparation, appraisal and implementation.

9.         Recommendations

Based on the project design, organization and implementation, the following conclusions and
recommendations are made:
          The Bank is requested to resume disbursement of FRDP III TA credit fund because some progress
has been made in procurement reform. The proposed procurement code is ready for Cabinet approval and
is expected in the next seating of Parliament in May, 2003.
          There is need to improve capacity in project planning and management, specifically with officers
responsible for coordinating the project in the ministry. The World Bank should continue to offer training
in this area with full funding.
          Mechanisms should be put in place to ensure adequate and timely communication between line
ministries, departments and lending institution for the smooth implementation of activities.
          Oversight ministerial responsibility on the project with a clear mandate and authority, incentive
packages, transport and communication and budget from the project funds ought to be in place as lack of
these has contributed heavily to the delay in the implementation of some project activities.
          A Steering Committee of Principal Secretaries chaired by the Secretary to the Treasury including
Principal Secretary of DEPD and the General Manager (Economic Services) of Reserve Bank of Malawi
should be formed to monitor the implementation and progress as agreed in the project agreement.
          Administratively, under the TA, an accountant responsible for maintaining project accounts should
be employed for easy tracking of expenditure returns. Whenever procurements are being made they should
always be backed by an appropriate authorized minute from the Project Coordinator or Project Officer.



Table 1: Bank Credit on FRDP
    Loan                       Purpose                                        Year of    Status
                                                                              Approval
    First Fiscal Restructuring -Structural adjustment                                    Fully disbursed,
    and Deregulation           -Macroeconomic stabilization                              except TA
    Program (FRDP I)           -Medium Term Expenditure                       1996       component
                               Framework (MTEF)
                               -Agricultural Marketing Liberalization
                               -Comprehensive civil service reform
    Second Fiscal              -Structural adjustment                                    Fully disbursed
    Restructuring and          -Expenditure prioritization
    Deregulation Program       -Labor market reform
    (FRDP II)                  -Civil service reform
                               -Continuation of privatization program
                               -Tariff and surtax reforms
                                                                              1998
    FRDP II Technical          -Providing funding for technical
    Assistance Project          assistance
    (FRDP II TA)               -Consultancies
                               -Studies
                               -Training to support the FRDP II
    Third Fiscal               -Structural adjustment
    Restructuring and          -Auditing and procurement reform                          Fully disbursed
    Deregulation Program       -Telecom privatization
    (FRDPIII)                  -Banking and agricultural marketing
                                Privatization                                 2000
    FRDP III Technical
    Assistance Project         -Providing funding for technical
    (FRDP III TA)               assistance                                               Still in progress
                               -Consultancies
                               -Studies
                               -Training to support the FRDP III




                                                                    - 34 -

Table 2: The FRDP III TA Project Costs by Components (Credit No. 3451-MAI)
   Components                                                                       Inputs (US$ million)
   Public Sector Procurement                                                        US$ 2.40
  Public Sector Financial Management                                                US$ 0.40
  Preparing next phase of structural and sectoral reform program                  US$ 0.20
   Total                                                                            US$ 3.00
Source: Project Document



Table 3: Some Basic Macroeconomic Indicators

  Variable                                1993       1994      1995      1996         1997       1998        1999       2000       2001    2002
  GDP growth rate (%)                      10.3      -11.6      14.3      10.4        7.0         2.2         3.6        2.0       -4.1     1.8
  Fiscal Deficit (inc. grants)/GDP          5.4       15.0      5.7        4.4        5.2         3.4         5.6        5.7        7.7     3.1
  Inflation rate (%)                       22.8       34.7      83.1      37.7        9.1        29.7        44.9       29.5       27.2    14.8
  Domestic savings/GDP                      0.2        1.7      6.7        2.2        -0.7        8.0        -0.6        3.4        4.8     -3.5
  Investment over GDP                      14.0       29.1      17.2      12.2        11.9       13.5        14.5       13.6       13.9    10.5
  Interest lending rates percent           31.0       47.3      45.3      28.3        37.7       53.6        53.6       52.0
  Current account deficit/GDP              11.9       16.9      5.2        7.6        11.0        1.4        12.5        5.5       10.4    15.1
  Exchange rate (MK/US$1)                   4.4        8.7      15.3      15.3        16.4       31.1        44.1       59.5       72.2    80.0
  Money growth (broad %)                   41.8       39.9      43.7      60.3        -1.7       41.1        33.6       42.4       21.2
  Official reserves (months import)                                        5.7        3.1         5.4         5.0        4.7        4.4
  External debt/GDP                         83        150       140       97.6        95.9        138        144        156        149      176
Source: Various Economic Reports, RBM financial statements


Table 4: Key Indicators for Project Operation: Structural
   Structural Indicators                                                               2000/01             2001/02          2002/03
                                                                                       Actual              Revised          Estimate
   Public Sector Management
   Output based budget
   Rec Allocated as % of Total Voted Recurrent Exp:
                  Education                                                            15.83               26.42            25.82
                  Health                                                               12.30               15.19            18.45
                  Agriculture                                                          4.08                6.61             7.70
                  Gender, Youth and Community services                                 0.43                1.00             1.60

   Per Capita Drug                                                                     US$1.16             US$1.33          US$1.32

Source: Financial Statements


Table 5: FRDP III TA Project Outputs
                                Output                                                             Progress
   1.      New Procurement Act approved by Parliament and            1.        Draft procurement code is under cabinet review
   supporting regulations introduced
   2.      National Procurement Authority and Procurement cadre      2.        Still under away and awaits enactment of relevant
   created                                                           legislation.
                                                                     3.        Recruitment of consultants on capacity building program
   3.      Capacity building program for procurement cadre           for procurement cadre is underway
   implemented                                                       4.        Awaits enactment of legislation

   4.      Stores department rationalized and computerized
  1.       Finance Act approved by Parliament                       1.         Draft Public Finance Management Bill is under
                                                                    stakeholders consideration
  2.       Audit Act approved by Parliament                         2.         Draft Public Audit Bill is under stakeholders consideration

  3.       Institutional reform program for National Audit Office   3.         Draft reports have been produced
  1.       Selective analysis of structural adjustment completed    1.         A draft concept paper has already been discussed with IMF
                                                                    mission.
   1.      Training                                                  1.        4 officers gone for long-term training
                                                                     2.        4 series of stakeholders' consultative meeting held
   2.      Workshops                                                 3.        Study tour conducted to South Africa and New Zealand

   3.      Study tour



                                                                      - 35 -

Table 6: Revised milestone of the Project Financial Management
    TASK                                                      ORIGINAL TIMING                         REVISED TIMING
    Hiring of consultants for legal separation and
    institutional development                                 April 300, 2001                         Nov. 15, 2001
  Preparation of draft report outlining legal legislation
  for the two Acts to be drafted by Law Commissioner
  /Parliamentary Draftsmen.                                   July 15, 2001                           April 15, 2002
  Study tour                                                  June 30, 2001                           August, 2002
  Stakeholders Conference                                     Sept. 15, 2001                          August, 2002
  Institutional Development Analysis                          July 15, 2001                           May 31, 2002
  Report outlining programs that will increase capacity
  of Public Accounts Committee of the National
  Assembly (PAC) and other supporting organs                  July 15, 2001                           Sept. 30, 2002
  Management Information Systems report outlining its
  design and computer equipment needed, specifications,
  advertisement for tender, receipt of equipment,             March 31, 2002                          May 31, 2002
  installation.
    Development of training programs for PAC and
    staff of the Auditor General's Department                 Sept. 30, 2002                          Sept. 30, 2002




Table 7: Revised milestone of the Project Procurement Reform
    TASK                                         ORIGINAL TIMING                               REVISED TIMING
    Enact new Public Procurement Act             August 2001                                   November 30, 2002
  Set up Procurement Authority                   October 2001                                  February 28, 2002
  Launch first training program after
  finalization of Plan for Capacity Building June 2001                                       April 30, 2002
    Begin Implementation of Stores               December 2001                                 August 31, 2002
    Reform




Table 8: Studies and Consultancies included in the project
    Study                           Purpose                                Status                        Impact of study
    Power sector policy             Background for privatization of                                      Recommendation that initial
                                    the power sector                       Completed                     stages of reform focus on
                                                                           2001                          distribution sector and
                                                                                                         maximizing private investment
                                                                                                         in new generation and
                                                                                                         distribution
  Financial sector regulatory       Background for revision of             Issue paper submitted         Provided overview of sector,
  review                            financial sector regulatory                                          outlined key issues and
                                    framework                                                            recommendations for
                                                                                                         restructuring and privatizing
                                                                                                         financial institutions
  Government of Malawi              Update progress of contracting out     Being implemented
  consultancy on contracting out
  Budgeting program for             Assistance including software and
  activity costing and              training for activity costing related
  prioritization                    to MTEF
  Employment permit policy          Review recent revisions in TEP                                       Recommends improvements
                                    policies and recommends                                              and clarification of key "key
                                    improvements                                                         posts" and simplification of
                                                                                                         approval process
  Quantitative model for            Establish scenarios as an input to     Completed
  macroeconomic and poverty         PRSP
  scenario
  Costing for poverty reduction     Same as above                          Completed
  strategy
  Food availability and
  accessibility access
  Tax reform study                                                         Completed
  The procurement reform and        Improving public procurement           In progress
  enacting new Public
  Procurement Act



                                                                         - 36 -

  Finance and Audit Act          Improving financial management        In progress
                                 by reforming the auditing and
                                 accounting systems
  Institutional reform of the    Same as above                         In progress
  National Audit Office
   Medium        Term     Wage                                         In progress
   Policy
    Note: Some of the studies were proposed under the first and second FRDP


Table 9: The BOP Component of FRDP III (Credit Number 3450-MAI)
   TRANCHE           SDR AMOUNT              MK'000                DATE                CREDITED TO       REMARKS
                                                                   DISBURSED           A/C NO
   First             43,100,000.00           4,450,375             30/01/2001          300616-mwk-2011   Govt. A/C No.1
                                                                                       -01
  Reflow             400,000.00              33,745                11/01/2002          001081-mwk-2208   FRDP BOP Govt.
                                                                                       -04               A/C
   Total             43,500,000.00           3,484,120
Source: Reserve Bank of Malawi


Table 10: The FRDP III TA Project Cost Allocation and Expenditures in US$
   Category            Category Description                               Allocation           Amount Utilized
   1                    Office Equipment                                  437,500.00           73,049.11
  2                     Consultants' Services                             1,000.000.00         333,301.99
  3                     Training,    Workshops,      Study       Tours,   875,000.00           167,651.83
                        Conferences.
  4                     Unallocated                                       687,500.00           -
   Total                                                                  3,000,000.00         574,002.93
Source: Reserve Bank of Malawi.




                                                                     - 37 -

Annex 8. Difference in Budgeted and Actual Expenditures (percentage of GDP),
1999/00-2001/02

                                                               1999/00                   2000/01                         2001/02


                                                  Approved Actual Difference Approved    Actual  Difference Approved Estimate Difference
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
General Administration                               6.0        4.1       -1.9     9.6    11.3        1.7       7.2        7.4        0.2
Social Services                                      6.3        6.3       0.0      5.8    6.2         0.4       8.6        6.1       -2.5
Of which:
     Education                                       2.6        2.8       0.2      2.6    2.8         0.2       3.0        3.6        0.6
     Health                                          1.6        1.6       -0.1     1.6    2.0         0.4       2.3        2.1       -0.2
     Social Security and Welfare Services            1.8        1.7       -0.1     1.5    1.3        -0.2       3.0        0.2       -2.8
     Community and Social Development*               0.3        0.2       -0.1     0.2    0.2         0.0       0.3        0.2       -0.1
Economic Services                                    1.8        1.2       -0.6     1.3    1.3         0.0       1.8        2.0        0.2
Total Discretionary Expenditures                     14.1      11.7       -2.4     16.7   18.8        2.1      17.6       15.5       -2.1
Unallocable Services**                               3.5        5.2       1.7      1.0    3.8         2.8       4.7        7.0        2.3
Total Recurrent expenditure                          17.6      17.8       0.3      17.7   22.6        4.9      22.3       22.5        0.2


DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES
Total Development Expenditure                        9.3       10.5       1.2      11.2   10.3       -0.9       9.5        7.3       -2.2


TOTAL EXPENDITURES (as % of GDP)                     26.9      28.3       1.4      28.9   32.8        3.9      31.7       29.8       -1.9


GDP at current market prices (million MWK)          91639      91639              109060 109060               144515    144515
* Includes Housing and Community Ammenity Services; Recreational, Cultural and Other Social Services; and Broadcasting and Publishing Services
** Public debt service, pensions and gratuities, and other statutory expenditures




                                                                      - 38 -

- 39 -

