                                                                                                                     86915

                                                                                                                        C0~1AL,
                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                        December 20, 2000
                                                                                                                             07:49:04 PM




Statement by Jan Piercy
Date of Meeting: December 21, 2000

                        Malawi: Interim PRSP, Joint Staff Assessment and HIPC
                         Decision Point, Country Assistance Strategy and Fiscal
                                     Restructuing and Deregulation Program

Introduction:

1.      During the preliminary HIPC discussion we stressed the importance of describing Malawi's
track record. We appreciate the brief additional summary in the decision point document as
Malawi's eligibility for decision point must be matched with good performance on the
macroeconomic and poverty reduction fronts. Malawi's levels of poverty and apparent
commitment to poverty reduction make it eligible for decision point at this time. As the joint staff
assessment and the Interim PRSP state, however, there is a great deal of work to be done. Recent
steps to improve governance, develop a national HIV/AIDS strategy and improve primary
education access and quality are very good. We look forward to continued progress.

Economic Growth:

2.      We welcome the government's emphasis on economic growth. Like all the countries we
have reviewed in the last two weeks, Malawi has to increase economic growth at a sustainable
rate. The Interim PRSP outlines a three pronged approach for achieving sustainable growth. We
agree that the comprehensive growth strategy proposed in the Interim PRSP is a start. The focus
on the agricultural sector is particularly important given the poverty concentration in rural areas.
Clarification of the strategy is needed, particularly regarding diversification, rural infrastructure
and private sector reform. We look forward to a road map in the full PRSP on how growth
objectives will be achieved.

3.      With a more detailed growth strategy, we believe Malawi's growth projections are
achievable in the short term, but appear to be optimistic after 2003. As a result, the debt
sustainability projections may be too optimisitic. The HIPC initiative defmed debt sustainability as
being an NPV of debt to exports of 150 percent or less. The immediate reaction by many
observers to seeing a HIPC -- such as Malawi -- that will not have a ratio below that level until
after 2010 will be a rightful amount of skepticism about this initiative. This is one of the reasons
why we have consistently pushed for a more fully articulated framework to assess the implications
of debt sustainability for the scale and composition of new lending.

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    2




Completion Point Triggers:

4.      Our position on triggers is clear. Quantifiable, ambitious, attainable triggers are necessary.
Precise triggers provide credibility to the government's commitment to poverty reduction and
reform. These countries are not only serious about their commitments -- they want to be taken
seriously. We believe Malawi's triggers are a good blend of measurable, ambitious and
achievable. We look forward to reviewing their attainment at the time of decision point.

5.      We are pleased that the use of interim relief was outlined in the decision point document.
Monitoring the use of interim relief for poverty reduction helps measure progress in managing
expenditures as well as poverty reduction. We agree that overall public expenditure management
requires enormous improvement. The proper management of HIPC resources is one step in that
important process. For that reason, we would have preferred interim relief as a trigger.

6.      We are pleased to note the trigger on quarterly expenditure reporting and the fact that
reports will be made public [per paragraph 57]. This is an encouraging step toward increased
transparency.

Interim PRSP:

7.      While the Interim PRSP is a solid starting point, we would like to see broader attention to
a variety of issues is needed in the full PRSP. Attention to actions for addressing gender
disparities is critical. Malawi has made tremendous strides on girls education, the same progress
is needed in the agriculture, private and health sectors. We welcome the government's focus on
HIV/AIDS. The national HIV/AIDS plan outlines a strong strategy. We look forward to clarity
on how the plan is being implemented.

8.     The need for governance reform is paramount. Anti-corruption efforts, civil service
reform and divestiture must continue. The parliament oversight committees have a role in
monitoring the government's continued governance reform efforts and we would urge that
adequate resources be provided to ensure their strong and responsible role.

Country Assistance Strategy:

9.      We welcome the discussion of diagnostics, but are concerned about the sequencing. Plans
to incorporate the fmdings of the PER into the budget are extremely important. We also note that
a CFAA is planned for FY 2002. We would like to see plans for a CPAR as well. Our concern
on sequencing sterns from the fact that the CPAR and CFAA should have been done in order to
inform the Interim PRSP as well as the CAS. Similarly, we would like to see the PER prior to the
Interim PRSP.

10.    As noted above, Malawi has included gender issues in its assessment of poverty. We
would like to know the government's plans for taking action addressing gender issues.
Agriculture, access to credit and health care are areas the government has to address. Education


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    3



is one area where progress is clear and that must remain on track.

11.     We agree that the 1998 CAS was too ambitious and that the Bank has to be more
selective. Toward that end the donor activities outlined in Box 5 are an extremely helpful
delineation of Malawi's external partnership by area focus and expertise.

12.     We welcome plans to devote 12 months to focused non-lending services that will update
key economic and sector work and support completion of the PRSP. We are particularly pleased
by plans to implement a consultative process that will synthesize the full spectrum of stakeholders'
interests.

13.      With our endorsement of the CAS, we support the accompanying Third Fiscal
Restructuring and Deregulation Program and Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation
Program Technical Assistance Project. The objective to support Malawi's macroeconomic
stability and protect key social sectors is well founded. Malawi's continued commitment to
structural reform, however, is imperative.

Conclusion:

14.    While we have concerns regarding the Interim PRSP, we believe it is a sound foundation
on which to build a full PRSP. We look forward to more detail on a growth strategy, governance
reform and gender. With that we can support the decision point. We endorse the CAS, but
would like to see a more action-oriented focus on gender.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
