Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IAlJ 32Z9-/X/
Report No. 8337-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
MAY 15, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country zepartment IV
'Europe, Middle East and i rth Africa Region
This docunent has a restricted distibution and ma' be mu



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft.)
April
1987   1988    1989    1990
US$1-Ft.        47.0   50.4    60.8    63.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATICNS
AGROBER     -    Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AKI         -    Research Institute of Agricultural Economics
BB          -    Budapest Bank
CCB         -     Commercial and Credit Bank
CMEA.       -     Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EEC         -     European Economic Community
FSMP        -    Financial Sector Modernization Project
HCB         -    Hungarian Ciedit Bank
HUNGEXPO    -    Agency for Trade Fairs and Export Promotion
KOPINT      -     Institute for Market Research
MEM         -    Ministry of Agriculture
MT          -    Ministry of Trade
NBH         -    National Bank of Hunga#y
NPV         -    Net Present Value
NSB               National Savings Bank
SAL         -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SIO         -     Subsector Interprofessional Organization
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditures
TTK         -    Hungatian Agricultural Commodity Exchange
HUNGARY - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



HUNGAR
INTEGRATED.AG&ICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                             page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................... i - iii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                    1
II.   AGRICULTURAL POLICY UNDER TRANSITION.                          2
A. Sector Background and Strategy.                            2
B.  Major Issues Facing the Agricultural Sector               3
C.  Status of the Financial and Banking Sector.               7
III.  CHANGING STRUCTURE OF FARING    .             .11
A.  Private Sector Farms ...........................11
B.  State iarms and Cooperatives ......................       13
C.  Impact of Bank Lending in Agriculture .16
IV. THE PROJECT .17
A.  Concept, Design and Objectives .17
B. Proiect Descrption .18
C.  Cost and Financing .................... \ ...........     20
D.  Procurement ........................................    21
E.  Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement ..............    23
F.  Environmental Impact... ............................    24
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................    25
A.  Organization of Implementation .....................    25
B.  Subloan Criteria and Onlending Terms ...............    26
C.  Small Scale tarmer Credit Arrangements ...........        29
D.  Technical Assistance and Training .31
E.  Reporting, Auditing.and Supervision .34
VI. AGRICULTURAL POLICY CHANGES .36
A. Producer Prices .36
B.  Subsidies ..........................................    36
C. Ownership of Assets in Farming .38
D.  Rehabilitation of Low Efficiency Farms .40
E. Trade Liberalization .40
VII.  ESTIMATED PROJECT RESULTS ....... .                           41
~~~~~.  ........  ..        .  .
A. Production ............                                    41
B. Markets .41
C. Financial Analysis .42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official -duties. Itis contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Pgge_ No.
VIII.   JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS .............................    43
X  A. Beefis...........i............                           43
B. Economic Analysis .44
C. Risks .45
IX.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENATION    .      .45
ANNEXES
1.    Selected Documents Available in the Project File
2.    Details on the Three Major Commercial Banks
3.    Program for Improving tow Efficiency Large Scale Farms
4.    Reiating Project Objectives with Project Components
5.   Detailed Cost Tables
6.    Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan                                    L
7.   Terms of Reference
M(i)    Agricultural and Food Marketing
(ii)    Commodity Exchange bevelopment
(iii)   Market Information Service
(iv)    Subsector Interprofessional Marketing Organizations
(v)    Agricultural Insurance System
(vi)    Training Farm Managers in Business Planning and Marketing
(vii)  Local Consultant Industry for Business Planning
(viii) Training of Private Farmers
(ix)    Extension Service for Private Farmeis
(X)    Livestock Advisory Services
8\.   Indicators for Project Monitoring
9.   Reassignment of Producer Prices Among Categories of Price Regime,
1988-90
10.   Detailed Subsidy Reduction Program in the Agricultural and
Agroprocessing Sectors
11.   Assumptions for ERR Calculat.ons
MAPS
This report was prepared by Wayne Ringlien (Task Manager), Martin Herman,
Orlando Sacay, Michel Debatisse (Bank) and Istvan Feher (C); the project was
appraised in November 1989.
-\;



INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Bgrrower:         National Batik of Hungary (NBH).
Guarantgr:        Republic of Hungary.
BeTnefic aris:    Private farmers, large scale farms and marketing agencies.
Amount:           US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:            Fifteen years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending         NBH will on-lend US$100 million equivalent in Forints to the
lerms             participating institutions at a maturity not exceeding 15
years including a grace period not exceeding five years, at
its prevailing adjustable refinancing rate which is positive
in real terms and will be adjusted from time to time to a
level suffi.cierit to cover: (a) NBH's average cost of funds;
and (b) the expected foreign exchange risk, which will be
borne by NBH.
Project           (a) To provide quality food products for export; and
Objectives:       (b) to make agricultural producers more efficient by
providing additional financial resources to private, small
scale farmers and by improving agrobusiness methods and
practices of managers of large scale farms.
Proiect           The project would provide a line of credit to be used
Descrigtion:      according to criteria and guidelines set by the commercial
banks to finance investments by private farmers,
agriultural enterprises and agroprocessing enterprises so
that they may improve their operations, reduce their unit
costs and increase exports. Investment funds would finance,
for both large scale agricultural units and small scale
farmers, planting material, breeding and fattening stocks
equipment for the improvement of crop and livestock
production, non-agricultural activities of agricultural
enterprises such as services and manufacturing, and storage
and commodity handling facilities and marketing and sales
promotion services.  Theproject includes important
agricultural policy initiatives which support privatization
ef farming assets and liberalization of prices and trade.



(it)
Proiect           Project benefits would be derived from:  (a) increased
Ae_n_qf_its:      earnings from exports, mainly to convertible currency
markets; (b) increases in the value added of the products
processed under the project; and (c) transfe! of the
ownership of assets, including land, from state farms and
cooperatives to farmers either organized in groups or as
individuals. The beneficiaries of the project would be
about 5,000 private farmers and entrepreneurs and 500 large
scale state, cooperative, and joint venture enterprises
engaged in agriculture and related activities. The
elimination of most subsidies, and liberalization of
producer prices and import licensing would improve resource
allocation and efficiency in agriculture and the economy at
large and would contribute to Government savings.
Project Risks:    The major risks of the project include inadequate
implementation of the Government of the agreed policy
reforms and insufficlent incentives to farm and enterprise
managers so as to motivate them to carry o'-t the required
restructuring.  The project attempts to reu e these risks
by securing agreement with Government on selected policy
issues, and by including in the project, services to assist
farm maragers to identify markets and to organize productiqn
to meet the quantity and quality requirements of their
markets. As regards the environmental impact of the
project, water pollution may result from agroprocessing
waste and use of farm chemicals. However, Government is
strengthening its enforcement of regulations governing water
pollution, and the investment proposal of each subborrower
will be cleared with the Ministry of Environment.
Project Costs:                            Local    Foreign   Total
---- (USS million)----
Crop Production            36       60       96
Livestock Production       46       13       59
Horticulture               27        2       29
Agroprocessing & Other     27        39      66
Trade Infrastructure        4        5        9
Training&Tech. Services    12        .       15
TOTAL               152      122     274
Financing         IBRD                        -       100     100
_PLa_:          Commercial Banks/rirH       98              107
Beneficiaries Equity       52         -      52
Government Contribution     2         -       1
OECD Donor Agencies        -         14      14
TOTAL               152      122      274
-                                       ~ ~ ~ ~~                 ~     ~~- _=  



(iii)
Estimated      IBRD FY              121  1992  1292  1994   1995   1S96
Disbursement:                                     (US$ million)-
Annual            8.1   23.7  29.4  23.8  12.0    3.0
Cumulative         8.1   31.8  61.2  85.0  97.0  100.0
Economic Rate of Return:        Ranges between 18% and 57%.
Maps:                           IBRD  22071, 22072 and 22085



HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRQDUCTION
1.01        In tandem with broader economic reform, Itungarian agricultLure is
moving forward in its transition from a production system based on quotas to a
farming system based on profits. The transitional phase is particularly
difficult for the agricultural sector as it lags behind the manufacturing
sector regarding liberalization and, thus, is required to absorb the
consequences of facing high, int3rnational prices for its inputs and low,
controlled prices for its output, and the resulting deterioration in the
internal terms of trade over the last decade. Under these circumstances, the
agricultural sector has been unable to stress its comparative advantage in
higher quality products than those which it is currently producing and
correspondingly shift emphasis to crops relative to livestock. The
agricultural sector has also been faced with uncertainties arising from macro
economic policies.
1.02        In attempting to assist the transitional process in the
agricultural sector, this project not only finances investment at the farm
level, but also addresses changes in agricultural policy and support for
institutional strengthening. Consistent with the overall economic reform
process, significant changes are also expected in the agricultural sector, in
several areas including liberalized imports of major agricultural products,
reducedans.ldies, liquidation of unprofitable farms, privatization of large
scale farms, decentralization of decision making, increased competition among
agroprocessing enterprises and other strategic actions which are expected to
help progress towards a market oriented system. A major breakthrough of
policy was the freeing of agricultural producer prices in January 1990.
1.03        As Hungarian agriculture competes with temperate climate countries
of the northern hemisphere, it must develop quickly a functional domestic
market structure which sends clear signals to the farming and agroprocessing
sectors in the form of higher prices for quality products. The proposed
project attempts to address this issue through (a) an extensive training
program for enterprise managers in food and commodity marketing; (b) technical
services for developing a commodity exchange, price information system and
other institutional measures which are fundamental for the functioning of a
market; and (c) the preinvestment work needed for establishing the physical
infrastructure in marketing.
1.04        The concept of the project represents an integrated operation
which addresses the urgent need for agricultural producers to vertically
coordinate their output mix on the one hand with the capabilities of the
agroprocessing sector and, on the other, with the effective demand on the                AT
domestic and international markets.



-2-
1.05        The project was prepared by the Hungarian authorities with the
advice of Bank staff who visited the country in November 1988 and March 1989
and, again,'in November 1989 to'appraise the project. Additional documents
concernIng the sector and the project are listed in Annex 1.
II. AGRICULTURAL POLICy UNDER TRAN§ITION
A. Sector Background ant Strategv
2.01        Hungary has about 20 percent of its economically active population
working on farms or in agricultural enterprises. Agriculture contributes
about one-fifth of GDP and accounts for about 30 percent of convertible
currency expqrts; its substantial exports to the countries which are members
of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CdEA) have a greater potential
to be converted in a relatively short time into higher quality goods for
Western markets than the output of other sectors. Agriculture is important in
every phase of the economic, social and political life in the country, and its
leaders recognize the vital role it plays in the successful development of the
ongoing economic reform. Under these circumstances, the Bank has gradually
broadened its dialogue with the Government on agricultural policy and
institutional issues. Key sector issues which the Bank is currently pursuing
with tie Government include: (a) clarifyirng ownership of assets in agriculture
by individuals, which is essential for the development of a land market,
transforma'-%n of present cooperatives to other organizational forms, and
liquidation of loss-making Large scale farms; (b) reducing subsidies,
particularly on production and investment; (c) reducing import licensing in
the context of liberalized agricultural producer prices; and (d) developing an
effective marketing system.       E
2.02        While large scale farms are considered to be efficient p-oducers
of field crops, e.g. wheat, corn, and sunflower, they have performed le'ss well
in livestock production and have increasingly relied on private farmers for
the breeding and fattening of large animals, especially, pigs, dairy and beef
cattle and sheep. Large scale farms have seen their profitability decline
over the last decade to some extent as a result of unfavorable world prices,
but mostly because of their traditional and outmoded methods of management and
marketing. Virtuallv all large scale farms have diversified into
nonagricultural activities because of low profits in agriculture and because
of lack of capital outlets for investing their cash.  This multiprodcIt
activity calls for a moder1i management system not unlike agribusiness'
enterprises in Western Europe and the United States, which, in turn, points to
the need for training in business planning, adoption of proven financial
management methods and a decision-making-orientation of the accounting system.
On the other hand, private farmers who are largely small scale producers and
are efficient in the production of fruits and vegetables need access to
commercial credit and supporting services such as extension and marketing in
order to shift out of their present role as sha\reworkers for the large scale



-3-                                                 ;
farms and develop inco owner-operators of commercially-oriented farms. These
are two of the most pressing challenges facing the agricultural sector as it
poises to %ckd its place in the emerging market economy of Hungary.  The
proposed project and the accompanying policy dialogue have addressed both,
these issues.
B.  Major Issues Facing the Agricultural Sector
Government Regulation
2.03        F3r many years, Government fixed the producer prices cf major
agricultural products based on the average costs of production with some
notion of internal market conditions integrated into the administered prices.
Under this policy accompanied by significant investment in agriculture in the
1970s, yields and output soared, particularly in field crops. That system,
however, encouraged high economic costs in production and was not linked to an
efficiency indicator. Furthermore, the pricing system was used to support
farm incomes in areas of low quality land. This pricing policy also directly
contributed to the misallocation of resources in agriculture by supporting an
uncompetitive livestock industry. With declining prices on the world markets
for Hungarian livestock products in the 1980s and rising prices for commercial
inputs, irternal terms of trade deteriorated. Government pricing policy has
gradual'o' x'olved from direct administration by the State all the way to free
producer :rxces in 1990. Even the bureaucratic process of price review by the
National Pricing Office was terminated and the responsibility for producer
pricing policy was turned over to the Ministry of Agriculture. Currently,
except for milk and wheat, all producer prices for agricultural goods are
unregulated.
2.04        Until recently, Government determined through its Ministry of
Agriculture the products which the large scale farms should produce, primarily
by tying investment and production subsidies to specific commodities.
Furthermore, the County Councils were, in effect, empowered to make the final
selection of farms which would receive subsidies and distributed them directly
to the farms. The County Councils, therefore, wielded formidable power in
agricultural production and trade outside of Budapest, with little
transparency in their selection of farms or distribution of benefits. This
situation changed dramatically in 1989, in part, due to considerable
discussion between Government and the Bank.  Agricultural subsidy reduction
targets had been set in 1988 under the Agroprocessing Modernization Project
(Loan 2936-HU), but were overtaken by events. Government is now committed to
further reducing expenditures on subsidies despite the short term unfavorable
effects on food prices and inflation.
Qwnership of Coogerative and State Farms
2.05        Based on the regulatory framework still in force, some of the
actions of Government hamper cooperatives and state farms while others assist
such units. As experience shows, Government agencies, Municipal and County



-4-
Councils, national and regional cooperative organizations, and banks interfere
through a complicated network of informal ;hannels in the management and
decision making of large scale farms.
2.06        CooneratlyVs.  The basic condition for establishing cooperative
autonomy is the definition of such autonomy and the clarification of the
relationship between the Government and the cooperatives. Legal guarantees
need to be provided to ensuI  that cooperative members are owners of
cooperativL property and are free to exercise thei functions as owners.
Government should frame legislation to permit the members of the cooperative
to decide on its organizational form and the disposal of its assets. How the
actual distribution of farm land and assets of the cooperative occurs will
depend on the scope of the legislation and the disposition of the cooperative
members. Limited experience shows that successful cooperatives have
diversified their product mix outside of agriculture and also experimented
with variations of integration with small scale members .ho grow out pigs and
poultry on their household plots as well as lease land belonging to the
cooperative, functioning as a group. Experiments on insolvent cooperatives
have resulted in establishing the ownership of the assets on an individual
basis, on land leased from the County Council or State and the land being
cultivated more as individual farms rather than as one large scale farm. The
creation of diverse forms of ownership is supported, in part, by an amendment
to the Cooperative Law and by the Transformation Law (1989). However, rights
of individuals need greater clarification and protection than are available
under current legislation and practice.
2.07        State Farms.  As in the case of cooperatives, the basic cordition
for increasing autonomy in state farm management is the clarification of
Government's role. One of the fundamental issues facing Government concerns
the creation of an owner's attitude in state farm employees.  While some of
the state farms or parts thereof shoulrl be privatized, others would need to be
restructured to operate as profitable businesses, subject to the same
regulatory framework as cooperatives and private farmers. They should have
the same flexibility as cooperatives in sponsoring and setting up various
organizational forms. Managers and employees of state farms have yet to
transform their farms into joint stock companies, as is legally possible.
2.08        A crucial aspect of privatization in agriculture is the ownership
of land by individuals. Despite the common impression that agricultural land
has no value, commercial banks are regularly using land as collateral for
securing loans and, under the Land Law of June 1989, large scale farms are
renting and selling land to their members and workers.  In the case of
specialized cooperatives, of which there are 66, the existing worker members
may sell land which they own to outsiders as well. The Ministry of
Agriculture (MEM) has elaborated formulas which help set land rentals.
However, there is little experience yet as only 4,000 ha were sold from large
scale farms to the private sector in 1989. Following from the right to own
farm land, private farmers and cooperatives should be able'to mortgage part of
their aatets to the commercial bank to cover their loans. Currently, the fact
that land has no financial or economic value under the present system totally
distorts the financial position of farmers.
\                 ;          -~~~~~~



Ax5ort and bomestic Trading Constraints
2.09        Along with the deregulation of supply and demand of agricultural
goods which is in progress, the freeing of the export and domestic trading
system is the central principle of a market based economy.  Though the lega.
constraints on enterprises to engage directly in such tr~de are being
loosened, there can be little competitive export trade among firms without the
transformation of their domestic trade into an open and free market operation.-
2.10        Domestic Trade    Domestic trade in agriculture is at the
beginning of a transition from being Government directed to becoming market
determined.  'n theory, trade in Hungary is a free, multi mhannel activity
regulated by various legislative me&-sures but, in rpactice, most enterprises
involved in matketing agricultural produce act as official Government
procurement channels, operating at low levels '.of efficiency and with little -
effect on the formation of price . In this context, the decisive role of
County Councils on the allocation of products within and outside counties'
boundaries is still to be clarified. Wholesale and retail profit margins
continue to be directly or indirectly set by Government and leave lit;xe roou.
for initiative on the part of wholesele agents beyond carrying out ene most -
rudimentary activities, often without storage space or trucking capacity for
which they rely on the producer enterprises or on the retail companies. In
addition, the few enterprises which are generally not under direct Government
management have strong incentives to form new cartel-type associations in the
absence of effective anti-trust legislation. Although it is difficult to
prove collusive behavior, a number of examples point to the tendency for
enterprises 'to cooperate' by fixing prices with or without Government
support. The operation of the Meat Center which succeeded the abolished Meat
Trust is a case in point.
2.11        The Government recognizes that much more needs to be done to
promote trade through fair competition, and the Trade Act, which is pending in
Parliament, is a step in this direction. As part of fundamental economic
reform, the Ministry of Trade (NT) is likely to assume a role of fac$litating
the efficient operation of the market mechanism through: (a) market
supervision to ensure competition; (b) promotion of marketing services
inclq.ding up-to-date price information; (c) establishment and supervision of
health and quality standards; and (d) other similar functions designed to
enhance the functioning of the market through a liberallied trade policy and
increased access of exporters to foreign exchange. The G,vernment I.s ready to
facilitate the creation of interprofessional organizations at the agricultural
subsector level, which would be in charge of designing the future marketing
instruments such as networks of witolesale markets, grading and inspection,
standardized exchange contracts wid arbitration procedures.
2.12        Fundamental institutional changes are required vo achieve the
reformvobjeNctives.  In addition to the measures to reorganizE '\KT, there is a
need to fin6 and employ publiis servant"-with other thar. purely-administ_-stive
skills to conVract marketing services, itich would supervise the operation of
the market.  Moreover, other Government agencies (e.g. the Ministry of



- 6 -
Justice) would need to change and adopt new roles. While most domestic trade
issues are common to the entire economy, agricultural trade has important
special features related to its economic, legal, institutional, managerial,
and technical aspects, which interact to bring about needed adjustment toward
a market determined system.
2.13       \foreign Trade    The Government is committed to facilitate access
to foreign products through import liberalization for all items.
Nevertheless, licensing of imports and exports is common, particularly for
agricultural and agroprocessed goods. For example, at the level of the
economy, licenses are required for 19 percent of imports, many of them food
items, and for 39 percent of exports. Major issues constraining the increase
of exports are: (a) monopoly power of the foreign trading companies, which
have exclusive rights to trade on the CMEA market; (b) the requirement of
export licenses; (c) lack of effective marketing services to small and medium
sized enterpripes; and (d) lack of investment in marketing infrastructure.
2.14        The Government is gradually liberalizing import/export licenses,
which will have a positive effect on expi t performance in the medium term but
will create increased demands on foreign exchange outflow in the short term.
In addition, the lack of effective marketing services is a serious problem for
market expansion and for development of new markets, particularly in view of
the passive response of Hungarian enterprises to export opportunities. For
example, most exports are managed by foreign agents, wholesalers and importers
who go to Hungary and seek opportunities rather than by Hungarians going
abroad tc sell their products.  The recent establishment of the Agromarketing
Office, a limited liability company, to provide marketing information on
prices, quality, timing, packaging, labelling and transportation indicates an
awareness of the need, but its delivery of services is yet to be tested. The
lack of pre-shipment export financing and insurance has also long been a
serious constraint in the export marketing system but Government has begun to
move toward establishing an institutional framework for facilitating these
services. Since October 1989, preshipment export financing at preferential
rates, based on export contracts, has been available.
2.15        CMEA member countries are now in the pro_ess of reviewing the
options for moving the current system toward greater trade liberalization.
Since about one half of all Hungarian trade, irkcluding agricultural products,
is with the CMEA countries, such trade influences the extent to which
enterprise managers can gear their exports toward the Western markets. CHEA
trade also serves as a structural limitation on any incentive which can be
built into the current enterprise system for rewarding managers for their
export performance. Further, foreign trading organizations utilize their
monopoly position in CMEA trade to dominate trade with the West by crowding
out individual enterprises which seek to develop their own marketing channels.
For example, direct enterprise trading in agriculture with the West accounted
for only about 15 percent of the value of those exports in 1989 and were
largely concentrated in the frozen food industry, which, today is still
managed as a mini trust. At the same time, it would be unwise to exclude
foreign trading companies from operating on the convertible currency markets,
as they have staff experienced in trading.



-7-
C.' Status of the Financial and Banking Sector
The Finanp0ial System
2.16        The financial system in Hungary has evolved rapidly since the
establishment of the two tier banking system in 1987. The system'consists of
a banking sector comprising the central bank, thirteen commercial banks, ten
specialized financial instituts.ns, and four joint venture banks with foreign
participation, a new securities market, four insurance companies, and the"
social security system. As part of the overall economic liberalization, the
Government has also embarked on a major reform of,financial policies,
institutions and instruments. Monetary and credit policy is now managed
through indirect int,truments. Deposits and lending' rates are largely market-
based, banking services for households and enterprises are being integrated
and foreign exchange operations are being decentralized. A new banking law,
now under preparation for legislative approval in the third quarter of 1990,
would establish a comprehensive framework for bank operations in Hungary and
strengthen the banking supervisory function as well as prudential regulations
for banks.  Recent corporate legislation has facilitated the development of
the incipient securities market, and a separate securities market law is also
under preparation.
2.17         Fundamental changes have taken place in Hungary's financial
system since the introduction of a number of specialized financial
institutions and the establishment of the bond market iX 1984. The reform of
the bankipg system in 1987, and the licencing of more commercial banks in
1988-89 are two major developments of significance. In parallel with the
ongoing reforms in the real,sector, the government intetnds to conti%.e
enlarging and improving the 'tervices and functions of thetfinancial system so
as to enable it to efficiently support the movement towards a market economy.
The medium term plan prepared for this purpose involves action in two broad
areas. The first is to improve resource mobilization and allocation, an
objective especially import4nt for the agricultural sector, since the
elimination of subsidies is leading to shortages of liquidity and investment
capital required by state farms and cooperatives. Progress in this direction
will require, among others, an adequate structure ok interest rates, the \
equalization of banks' reserve requirements, the elimination of direct credit
allocation and interest subsidies, and the transfer of the foreign exchange
risk to the subborrowers. The second area for action implies the further
development of the financial system to promote domestic and foreign private
capital operations and the preservation of a performing and healthy system.
This requires, bes4des the strengthening of the banking,sector, a
modernization program for the securities market and the introduction of  e
commodities f tures transactions. It would also require the introduction of
an efficient accounting and auditing system, based on internationally accepted
standards, in banks and enterprises, And the establishment of an efficient
supervisory system to prevent and re6uce irregularities. Also, to lessen the              3
negative financial and social'impact of restructuring the economy, and



8'
reducing subsidies, it will be nedessary to establish efficient insurance and
social security systems.
2.18        The Bank is providing assistance to the medium term plan for the
modernization of the finaneial system through the Financial System
Modernization Project (FSMP) (Loan No. 3191-HU). That project emphasizes the
importance of the rehabilitation of the major banks, focussing on such crucial
areas as: (i) establishing credtt policies and procedures to permit better
assessment of the risk of lending operations; (ii) undertaking portfolio
adjustments, based on detailed external auditIng of banks, to improve their
financial standing; and (iii) improving the accounting and auditing systems so
as to achieve transparency and reliability of financial statements of banks
and enterprisos. It is expected that the improved banking system framework
will encourage domestic private investment and the flow of direct foreign
investment, and result in substantial benefit to the economy as a whole. In
the long run, improvements will also have to be made in the mobilization of
savings and in the establishment of an efficient capital market and efficient
insurance and social security institutions as those are essential to supFort
privatization and economic development. The Bank expects to continue to assist
in the achievement of these objectives in future lending operatiors.
The banking System
2.19        Since the formation of the two tier banking system in 1987, the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH) restricts itself to traditional central banking
activities. NBH is involved in the formulation and enforcement of monetary
policy, and in maintaining internal and external financial equilibrium. NBH
now acts as banker only for the State, for banks and for specialized financial
institutions. Within the new economic and financial environment, NBH has
become more independent of Government and relies on moreindirect control of
eredit, through instruments such as reserve requirements, open market
operations, refinancing limits, and interest rates.
2.20        Refinancing credits are provided by NBH to commercial banks for
short and medium term working capital loans and also fox investment loans.
The latter are mainly provided through Bank-financed agricultural, industrial
and other projects. Short term refinancing credit can be obtained through an
automatic overdraft facility allocated on the basis of a bank's capital or
through the liquidity facility for,banks whose credit requirements exceed the
established overdraft limits for lbnger periods of time.  NBH has sought to
control the lending behavior of the banks by varying the limits for
refinancing short term working capital credits. In line with the tight
monetary policy, the limits were halved between September 1987 and Septemb\er
1988. In January 1989 automatic overdrafts were limited to 50 percent of a
bank's share capital and any remaining credit being met through the liquidity
facility. At the same time, interest rates on overdrafts and liquidity loans
were raised to 14 percent and 18 percent, respectively.  The dependence of the
banks on the refinancing mechanism is expected to decrease as integration bf
the household and the enterprise banking sectors progresses, and commercial
banks begin to accept deposits from, and issue bonds to, the household sector.
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



9
2.21        The interest rate structure has been reformed to mobilize more
resources and to channel them more efficiently from areas of surplus to areas
of shoNtage. This was achieved by deregulation of interest rates and by
maintaihing positive interest rates. In the past, NBH refinancing rate has
generally been kept positive in relation to anticipated domestic inflation.
Refinancing rates on working capital credits were raised from 11 percent which
prevai)?d fQr much of 1988, to 13 percent in November 1988 and to 14 percent
in Jatiuary 1989. Measured in relation to producer prices inflation of 15
percent in 1989, NBH financing rate lost its positive real margin. Also,
given the evidence of accumulated, and mounting, foreign exchange losses at
the NBH, the rate did not appear anymore to provide an adequate margin to
cover such losses. To counter these trends, NBH increased its refinancing
rate in Decemdber 1989 by three percentage points to 17 percent per year. This
rate would appear adequate to cover the foreign exchange risk and
administrative costs as producer price inflation iz expected to remain at
about 15 percer,t in 1990 with a declining trend thereafter.
2.22        Banks have been able to establish their own lending and deposit
rates since 1987, the former principally on the basis of their cost of capital
and of overheads. For investment loans such cost is mainly influenced by the
refinancing rate of NBH, which is the main source of long term financing to
agriculture. The rates are variable and differ from bank to bank, reflecting
also the status of the portfolio, the need to establish provision for bad
debts and the assessment of the risk of the operations financed, Similarly,
short term rates are determined by the cost of short term resources and'of
operating costs. Short term rates are variable as well and have recently been
increased, due to the reduction of NBH overdraft facility to 50 percent of the
borrowing bank's capital. This has obliged the banks to turn for resources to
the household sector through the issuance of financial instruments such as
CDs, which bear higher costs, and to the higher cost inter-bank market.
Interest rates are constantly under review by the IMF and will be reviewed in
the Bank from time to time under the proposed SAL and the FSMP.
2.23        NBH role in managing foreign exchange operations is also evolving
as certain operations are progressively decentralized. It continues to manage
gold and foreign exchange reserves and be in charge of all international
borrowing activities as well as management of external debt. However, since
March 1989, the commercial banks have been permitted to intermediate certain
foreign \exchange transactions between domestic customers and .he NBH and to
establish correspondent banking relationships with some major'international
banks. Further deregulation will affect all foreign exchange activities
except foreign borrowing. The commercial banks will be able to make foreign
exchange payments, collect deposits in foreign exchange and extend credit for
export and to small and medium sized farms and enterprises. Medium sized
enterprises in the agroprocessing sector are already known to be taking
V Since commercial banks would be lending Bank loan proceeds to producing
farms and enterprises in a financial market which is segmqnted betweeh
producers and households, the relevant price index to use' for project
beneficiaries would be. the producers price index.



-10-
advantage of new financial instruments, svch as leasingb made available by the
banks to increase their access to foreign exchange resources.
The FinanMial Intermediation System
2.24        Commercial banks are registered in different legal forms and
ownership structures, from budgetary institutions to joint-venture, joint-
stock companies. In case of the large commercial banks, the biggest single
shareholder is the State which holds up to 52 percent of share capital (except
for the National Savings Bank (NSB) which is a budgetary institution, and as
such, does not have a shareholding structure); the remaining shares are held
by enterprises. Hungarian banks in general\,follow a Western style corporation
management structure, with a chief executive chairing and reporting to a board
of directors, drawn from major shareholders. They usually also have a
supervisory board that reports separately to the general assembly of
shareholders.
2.25        At the time of their creation in 1987, the three major commereial            j
banks (BB, CCB, and HCB) inherited their business portfolios from the
commercial banking sections of the NBH. Until they were allowed in 1989 to
participate in retail banking activities and mobilize household deposits, the
commercial banks only dealt with state enterprises, local councils, large
cooperatives and other entities in the socialist sector. A few are now
beginning to service the small business and farm sectors. Some of the large
commercial banks intend to develop into 'universal banks', involved in every
aspect of retail and commercial banking.  The NSB and savings cooperatives,
traditionally involved in retail banking and housing finance, have also been
converted to full-service commerciWl banks.  The smallest and the most diverse
group of financial institutiorP  consista of the specialized financial
institutions which evolved fzom the innovation funds set up in the early
1980s.  These are full-flsPdged banks with the exception that they are not
permitted to operate current, accounts. They have pioneered and developed a
number of financial services in Hungary, such as leasing, hire purchase, real
estate development financing, and quasi-equity profit-sharing participation
instruments, and deal mostly with small cooperatives, small state enterprises
and private farmers. Finally, the foreign joint-venture banks are full-
service banks which engage in trade finance and leasing activities for small
enterprises, cooperatives and private sector ventures.
2'.26       While all the commercial banks are active in all sectors of the
economy, 'each has some initial specialization which is a reflection of the
experience of their staff prior to the twro-tier banking system. For example,
the Commercial and Credit Bank (CCB) was formed in 1987 out of the agriculture
divisioni of the NBH and inherited several existing loans to the agricultural
sector. Cons3quently, the majority of its lending is for agriculture and the
food industry. About two-thirds of all cooperatives are financed by this
bank. The Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB) was also founded in 1987 and is the
largest commercial bank providing'credit primarily to industry. About 20
percent of its loan portfolio goes to agriculture and the food industry.  It
serves the credit needs of about one-fourth of all cooperatives.  The Budapest
Bank (BB) is the third largest commercial bank and has particular experience



- 11 -
In serving the needs of the energy sector.  It maintains interest in expanding
its involvement in agriculture although its area of coverage and branch
network are still limited.
2.27        Agrobank Ltd. which has been in existence under the umbrella of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food since 19Fn became a full-fledged
commercial bank in 1988. Mezobank was founded in 1986 as the national banking
institution of agricultural cooperatives. The Bank for Small Ventures was
organized as an affiliate of the National Savings Bank to provide credit to
small businesses including agricultural ventures, but does not have a branch
network. NSB is one of the oldest financial institutions and has the largest
branch netwtork which caters to the general public by receiving deposits and
granting loans to individuals.
2.28        Based on tle financial statements and financial indicators, the
three major commercial banks appear to be in a relatively healthy financial
position. However, their financial results are probably somewhat overstated
due to the lack of adherence to prudent policies and procedures regarding loan
classification and interest accrual, and accounting standards which are not in
line with internationally acceptable accounting practices. Govern*xent is
aware of these problems and has mounted programs to improve the financial
position of the banks as well as to set the stage for establishing a
satisfactory accounting system. Under the FSMP, selected commercial banks
would undergo detailed financial audits with a view to assess their true                  |
financial condition and the state of their portfolios. Also, special audits
to be carried out in 1990 would provide a basis for developing and
implementing, as appropriate, an action plan to restructure the portfolios of
those banks for *which audits would revea'l need for adjustments. Annex 2
describes the more important features of the three major commercial banks and
shows their summary financial statements.
III.  CHANGING STRUCTURE OF FARMING
A. Private Sector Farms
3.01        Private, small-scale farms now produce over 60 percent of grapes,
fruits and vegetables, 56 percent of pigs and 44 percent of poultry, but only
23 perceit of beef and milk. Except for milk, all of these products are
exportable. With a share of only 11 percent of the area cultivated in
Hungary, the small scale farming sub-sector contributes about half of total
net value added in agricultural production. Grouped together as a transient
form of organization at the time when lani was being collectivized, these
farms have taken on increasing importance in spite of limited government
support and declining land resources. This hat been possible through increased
markete,orientation and specialization towards labor intensive production.
The large farms find it increasingly difficult to undertake such production
activities directly and prefer to transfer them to private farmers through a
variety of arrangements.



-12 -
3.02        Private farming activities involve some 40 percent of the
Hungarian population working on 1.4 million farms and about 0.7 million even
smaller "hobby farms". Table 1 shows the number and type of farming units in
the country and the relative stability of their numbers over the last decade.
Table 1: NU1ThER OF FARMS, 1980-88
1980    1985    1986    1987    1938
Private Small Scale Farms V ('000)       1,500   1,442   1,415   i,395   1,395
Cooperative Farms                        1,338   1,270   1,260   1,262   1,253
State Farms                                132      128     129     130      133
Specialized Cooperatives                    61      60       60      62      66
Cooperative\Associations                    42       54      58      54       64
Forestry Companies                          23       25      27      29       28
Fishing Cooperatives                        16       15      14      14       14
1J Estimated
With an estimated average working time of 4.9 hours per day and per family,
private farming accounts for about 1.2 million man-years, i.e. almost twice
the labor force available in the large-scale sector.. Land rights differ for
the various categories of farmers, depending chiefly on the time they work for
the large farm to which they belong as cooperative members or as state farm
employees. The mean cultivated area is only 0.5 ha per farm. Cooperative
members are entitled to more land, but often prefer to lease part of the
allocated land to the cooperative for rent payable in cash or kind.
\
3.03        Due to limited access to credit and unfavorable producer prices
and policies, investments in private sector farming have been limited,
particularly in fixed assets. For example, most buildings for livestock date
back prior to the communist government. Only one private commercial farm in
20 has a tractor or a power tiller, and there were only 21,000 four-wheel
tractors in 1986. The number of small tractors has been increasing in the past
five years, but remains insufficient to meet the needs, since they remain
expensive and in short supply. Until very recently, individual farmers were
not allowed to buy pick-up trucks, and virtually all deliveries of farm
products to city markets are still made by horse drawn carts or passenger
cars.
3.04        The technology used by private, small scale farmers is inefficient
with regard to labor use due to the lack of adequate eqi4pment.  However,
technical performance, particularly for vegetables, potatoes and fruits, is
not far behind that of large-scale farms on average, and quite comparable in
the case of commercially-oriented, small scale farms which normally use the
same seed varieties and inputs as large farms. Due to the lack of price
incentives for quality and difficult access to protein feeds until 1989,



- 13 -
technical ratios and meat quality in the private small farms are less
satisfactory in livestock production, particularly for pigs and poultry.
Technologies used by large scale farms in livestock production are often not
well suited to small farms which cannot produce their own feed and are too
small for mechanization.
3.05        Private farms rarely have direct access to credit, inputs.
technology and markets, but depend on large scale cooperative or state
enterprises for such services under some form of integration. These may vary
widely from a loose system with no obligation to buy or to sell, to very tight
-rrangements akin to sharecropping.  The diversity and flexibility of existing
at:rangements are justified by the variability in conditions. The more
successful integration systems are those which benefit both the private small
scale farmer and the integrator. The capacity of cooperatives to support
efficiently the production activities of their small farmer members is
somewhat limited because, in the absence of a clear delineation between their
social and economic roles, cooperatives, particularly those located in
disadvantaged areas, often undertake unprofitable activities for the sake of
maintaining employment.
B. State Farms and Cooneratives
Larne Scale Farms
3.06        Large scale farms account for about 83 percent of the best
agricultural land in Hungary and are comprised of state farms (13 percent of
land) and the collective farms of agricultural cooperatives (70 percent).
State farms are basically expropriated estates of private families who
operated them as large tracts of land before the communist revolution.
Government nationalized private estates and continued to cultivate them with
the objective of increasing food production for self sufficiency on the
domestic market and exporting a considerable surplus to Hungary's CMEA
partners in exchange for raw materials and other needed imports. Cooperatives
were formed through Government pressure on private farmers to pool their land
and equipment together in exchange for Government administered prices based on
average costs of production and the right of farmers to use (i) the small land
area around their house and farm buildings; plus (ii) 0.6 ha on the
cooperative's fields or the equivalent in corn or cash.  Members of the
cooperative were allowed to maintain title to their land even though it was
merged into large fields under the cooperative; however, in recognition of the
title, the cooperative paid a nominal, annual rental fee for the use of the
land. When leaving the cooperative or on death with heirs who were not
members of the cooperative, individuals were expected to return the land to
the "central administrative unit", which currently controls about 63 percent
of the land in cooperatives.
3.07        Large scale farms have grown considerably over tbe years, largely
due to poor performance and financial losses of some farms which have been
absorbed by neighboring units. As a result, there has been a continuous



- 14 -
increase in average farm size, from 2,000 ha in 1970 to over 4,500 ha in 1989
for cooperatives, and from 5,500 ha to 7,600 ha for state farms. The larger
fa\rms seem to be experiencing diseconomies of scale as they have become too
large. There is considerable scope for decentralizing these farms without
affecting the large sized fields which permit the operation of 150 hp tractors
and large equipment for planting, cultivating and harvesting grains and
oilseeds. Yields per ha on the large scale farms are impressive for field
crops; yield increases are obtained by improved varieties/breeds and
techniques disseminated by "production system centers" established by leading
state farms and cooperatives. Major crop yields and livestock productivity
indices progressed in parallel with those of western countries from which the
technology was adapted. However, since the early 1980s, yields have stagnated.
3.08         Although yields can technically further increase in many cases,
it is now being realized that farms with the highest indices are not
necessarily the more profitable ones. More efficient input use is now needed.
Some improvement in fertilizer efficiency has already been achieved, as a
result of more careful utilization following recent price increases and the
expected reduction, with eventual elimination, of the fertilizer subsidy.
Further yield increases may be limited by the prevailing reliance on
recommendations which do not take sufficient account of specific local
physical and economic farm situations, and which are still chiefly geared to
maximization of yields rather than of profits.
3.09        Over the last two decades, investments in machinery have increased
and resulted in a significant expansion in traction power per ha and per
machine on the large scale farms. More investments in modern precision
machines, such as those supported by the Bank-financed Crop Improvement
Project, and for which there is a sustained demand, are necessary to further
reduce maintenance costs and improve yields through better cultivation
practices. Labor productivity remains low, however, compared to Western
standards, particularly in livestock production, a fact which is partly due to
lack of equipment and partly due to lack of incentives and reluctance to
reduce the number of workers arising from Government's interest to maintain
full employment.
3.10        The fact that about 50 percent of all large scale farms in
financial difficulty are found in disadvantaged areas with poor soils is not
necessarily evidence that profitable farming is not possible in those areas
but rather reflects a failure to adjust production systems to natural
resources. However, such adjustment has been made difficult by price
equalization policies, which for example, subsidize cereals in particular
areas where they are costly to produce. Wheat is grown in areas which would be
better suited to sunflower or rye, or in some cases, should not be cropped at
all but converted into grazing or forest land. Many farms have, therefore,
engaged in diversified activity outside of agriculture rather than attempt to
change the existing production pattern, and now derive the larger part of
their income from agroprocessing, services, and manufacturing activities.
Diversification has been progressing in the sector as a whole during recent
years. 14on-agricultural activities noyA provide 43 percent of the total gross



- 15 -
output value of cooperatives, and 55 percent for state farms; they have also
been the major source of their profits over the last decade.
3.11        Another way to improve farm profitability, characteristic of many
cooperatives in recent years, has been to transfer those activities in which
they were less efficient, essentially the labor intensive tasks, to the
private small-scale farms of their members and employees. This type of
arrangement has proven successful when an adequate and clear sharing of
,responsibilities has been identified, and could be further developed, but will
soon find its limits if small farm labor productivity is not raised. By
contrast, transfer of activities or services to private businesses is still an
exception.
Low Efficiency Farms
3.12        The declining profitability of agriculture experienced over the
last decade has magnified the performance variations among state farms and
cooperatives. Clarrently, there are about 175 large scale farms which are
considered as chronic loss makers. While these farms account for only about
12 percent of the assets in agriculture, they have damaging demonstration
effects on the well managed farms and require ad hoc subsidies from the
central budget to pay for their losses. The causes for these losses are
complex and vary from one enterprise to another. However, in general, the
major factors are the following: (a) low quality management; (b) lack of
earnings from non-agricultural activities; (c) the inability of the contracted
private, small scale farmers to undertake labor intensive activities on the
farm; (d) employment of excess labor, particularly, at the staff level; and
(e) poor quality of land. Annex 3 explains how these factors influence farm
performance and expands on the detail of the Government debt reduction program
which is designed to permit low efficiency farms to rehabilitate (para 3.13).
3.13        In January 1987, Government initiated a debt reduction program for
loss making large scale farms as well as farms which made substantial capital
investments and, as a result, experienced serious cash flow problems over a
rolling, three year period. Two hundred and thirty-four state farms and
cooperatives were accepted into the three-year program, based on their debt
position and 81 farms enrolled in the period 1987-89. The program permits the
selected farms a debt write-off of 40 percent to 60 percent of their
outstanding obligations to commercial banks, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry
of Finance and the National Federation of Cooperatives. As of April 1990, the
total amount written off was about Ft. 855 million paid from Government's
budget and Ft. 1,102 million by commercial banks. Generally, payments of
Interest and principal were suspended during the three-year trial period.
Under the program, 64 farms showed an average profit over the three-year
period and qualified for debt reduction.  The target profit level for the 64
successful farms was Ft. 434 million per year, but they exceed this target and
reached an aggregate profit of Ft. 481 million in 1987, Ft. 724 million in
1988 and Ft. 799 million in 1989. This was a one time offer to farms to
enable them to obtain substantial assistance for their restructuring programs
as they will not be eligible for any subsequent program and would assume full
responsibility for all debts and obligations if they failed to meet the agreed



16 -
profitability targets.  Of the 17 remaining farms, one was not included in the
analysis due to exceptionally poor weather conditions over the period, 12 are
expected to come to financial rescheduling and arrangements with their
creditors and four are expected to be liquidated. The program is generally
thought to be a successful endeavor as 64 farms were restructured with reduced
staff, changed management, revised organizational structure, and new products
with a higher rate of market acceptability. In addition, profit taxes (34X)
paid by the successf.ul farms due to the program contributed annually about Ft.
185 million to Government revenues.
3.14        In addition to following through on the 1987-91 debt reduction
program which would terminate in 1991 when the third group of farms completes
its three-year testing period, Government has announced, with the cooperation
of the commercial banks, a new four-year debt reduction program which will
begin in 1990. Under this program, Government has allocated Ft. 3,350 million
to assist some 220 farms, including p-tvate sector operations if they qualify
as severely indebted enterprises based on their 1985-88 record. Details of
the operational aspects of the program are not clear except that the State
will not forgive debt as under the previous program but would swap debt for
equity and expect a 15 percent per annum dividend on that placement.
Commercial banks would negotiate with their clients in each case to determine
whether the former judge the farm as a viable, profit-earning venture.  The            -
banks would be free to reschedule principal and interest payments, reduce the          D
interest charged or forgive a share of the debt.
C. Imnact of Bank Lending in Agriculture
3.15        Bank projects in Hungarian agriculture introduced the country to
low cost, modern machinery which embodied the technology required by the
agricultural sector to maintain their competitiveness in world trade. In
1983, the Bank signed the first agricultural loan to Hungary and since then,
three additional loans have been effective. The Grain Storage and Farm
Mechanization Project (1983, Ln. 2316) was the first Bank operation in Hungary
and has been followed in the agricultural sector by three other projects:
(a) Integrated Livestock Industry Project (1985, Ln. 2510); (b) Crop
Production Improvement Project (1986, Ln. 2738); and (c) Agroprocessing
Modernization Project (1988, Ln. 2936). As summarized in the 1989 Project
Performance Audit Report (Report No. 7924), the Grain Storage and Farm
Mechanization project was highly succcssful mainly because it helped to
relieve critical foreign exchange constraints and because it focused Loan
proceeds of US$169.3 million on farm machinerv, grain storage, and
fertilizers, all of which faced critical bottlenecks. Economy and efficiency
in procurement were realized, so that the subborrowers benefited from good
value for their expenditures. Grain production was increased, cost of
production reduced, and investment under the project yielded a relatively high
return. The livestock and crop projects are being successfully implemented
and achieving their objectives of increasing revenues from exports and
reducing unit costs of production through improved technology both at the farm
level and the slaughterhouse level. Despite a slow start-up due to country



- 17 -
conditions, the agroprocessing project is making a favorable imparct on
increased earnings from higher valued products as well as creating
efficiencies in agroprocessing and export marketing. Besides the machinery
and services purchased under the loans, a policy dialogue was established
between the Bank and Government which resulted in a substantial change in
official thinking about agriculture, liberalizing the sector and giving it a
legal framework for future privatization of assets in farming. In general,
Bank involvement in the sector has resulted in: (a) incorporating economic and
financial analysis in all investment decisions; (b) discontinuing highly
subsidized production programs of soybeans, corn and land improvement;
(c) phasing out administrative controls on producer prices; (d) reducing
overall subsidies to the sector; (e) establishing export marketing services
for agricultural products; and (f) breaking up of the commodity trusts in
ooultry, meat and grains.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Concept. Desig-n and Obiectives
4.01        The concept of the project is to encourage commercialization of
the private, small-scale farming sector and modernization of large-scale farms
under the umbrella of the national economic reform program. Overall
reductions in Government subsidies and in regulations restricting decisions by
farm managers are creating a new sense of financial responsibility in the
agricultural sector. On an experimental basis, large scale farms are leasing
And, in special cases, selling assets to private farmers organized in groups
or as individuals under a variety of contractual arrangements. Commercial
credit needs are rapidly developing to finance these new ventures, and
innovative ways to secure loans from commercial banks to private operators are
required. Similarly, large scale farms are restructuring their product mix
according to its impact on profitability and on exports. In order to achieve
an effective supply response, large scale farms require commercial credit and
supporting services so as to coordinate their production with existing and
planned processing capabilities and with effective market demand.
4.02        The dasign of the project focusses on managers of reso rces of the
different farming units in the country and attempts to proviJe technical
assistance, training, investment and working capital as means of promoting
change in the production-processing-marketing system. The sequence and
intensity of the changes in the way agriculture operates in relation to a
market based economy are a function of the incentives and supporting services
available to farm managers. However, the broad measures promoted by the
economic reform at the policy level are yet to be adequately articulated and
implemented in terms of operational experience at the farm and processing
levels. The proposed project blends a mix of investments at these levels with
changes in policy and institutions which are interrelated and follow from the
on-going dialogue between the Bank and Government on agricultural policy
within the framework of the economic reform program agreed with the Bank.



- 18 -
4.03        The project is also designed to strengthen the system of financial
institutions by improving their capability: (a) to cater to the demand for
credit from a new group of farmer clientele resulting from the restructuring
of the sector; and (b) to evaluate investment proposals. It also proposes to
broaden the borrowing capacity of &gricultural cooperatives and of private
farmers by making land mortgageable. Some commercial banks view the emerging
private farmers as a profitable clientele and are equipping themselves to
provide credit service to them to a larger extent than at present.
4.04        The project is based on a line of credit through the banking
system. Credit is limited to agriculture because of the present needs for
investment capital to restructure the agricultural sector and increase its
international competitiveness. To keep segmentation of the credit system to a
minimum, credit allocation within the sector will be decided exzlusively by
the banks on the basis of demand and their lending policies and procedures.
The project makes available investment capital to strengthen the comparative
advantage of the agricultural sector with particular focus on private, small
scale farmers who are entering into the commercial credit system for the first
time. Such long term resources are expected to act as a catalyst for improving
the efficiency of the sector and making agricultural beneficiaries more
familiar with the use of commercial credit. The project is entirely financed
through the banking system, because in th12 phase of transformation, the
institutions outside the banking sector (,re not capable of assuring the
delivery of significant amounts of investmjent funds. When the sector becomes
more profitable, the capital market may be expected to become an !nportant
source of funds to the private sector. The loan delivery system has been
designed in accordance with the requirements of the FSMP. Interest rates
reflect market rates and are determined with due consideration of the
financial and operating costs of the intermediary institutions, the rate
of inflation and the foreign exchange risk.
4.05        As an integral part of the production-processing chain, private,
small scale farmers, who currently account for about one-half of value added
in agriculture, wiil be given the opportunity under the project to have
greater access to land, supporting services and commercial financing for the
long term development of their agricultural activities. It is expected that
such financing would flow to private farmers from commercial banks, directly,
as individuals or as members of small sized cooperatives, associations or
joint ventures or, indirectly, through large scale farms.
B. Project DescriRtion
4.06        The project would principally consist of a line of credit defined
through criteria and guidelines of the commercial banks to provide funds for
investment and incremental working capital for agricultural enterprises to
improve their operations, reduce their unit costs and increase their
contribution towards exports. Investment funds would finance planting
material, br\eeding stock, equipment for the improvement of crop and livestock



- 19 -
production, forestry, non-agricultural activitiesW of agricultural
enterprises like servicv} and manufacturing, and storage and commodity
handling facilities of both private and state owned agricultural units.  The
project would, in particular, finance small scale farming equipment, pick up
trucks and small tractors which are designed for private farmers. Virtually
all project investments would be used to produce high quality products,
exportable to the convertible currency markets. Funds would also be made
available to farms and marketing firms for marketing and sales promotion as
well as business planning. Considerable training and technical services to be
financed through grants from donors would be incorporated into the project in
the areas of private, small scale farmer support, agricultural and food
marketing and domestic market structure, agricultural insurance and technical
services for livestock. It would also further enforce the existing
regulations for environmental protection, particularly from water pollution on
the proposed farms to be financed under the loan.
4.07        Potential project beneficiaries would be a wide range of clients
who can be categorized into two groups. The first group includes private,
usually small scale farmers, part time farmers who are members of agricultural
cooperatives and employees of state farms, farmers organized into groups,
contractors of farm services and rural entrepreneurs engaged in activities
supporting agriculture or agroprocessing enterprises. The second group
includes large scale farms and their subsidiaries, and agents engaged in the
marketing and processing of agricultural products. In the interest of
coordinaticn with the ongoing Agroprocessing Modernization Project (Ln.2936-
HU), only farms with agroprocessing units and small scale entrepreneurs with
annual sales of less than US$2 million would be serviced by this project.
Nonagricultural activities of farms and rural entrepreneurs would be financed
under the project up to US$500,000 per subloan; larger requests would be met
under the ongoing Industrial Loans.   Large scale farms would reduce unit
costs and reorient their operations toward greater profitability and exports
by adopting business planning which would help modernize the manner in which
they identify their markets, carry out their operations and take financial
decisions. Commercial banks would provide financing of investment for
rehabilitated large scale farms. Private farmers would be promoted as clients
for commercial credit either as individuals, groups or through the large scale
enterprises. Annex 4 gives a schematic outline of how project components
support the achievement of project objectives.
v' Non-agricultural activities include a variety of small scale agroprocessing
activities, services and small, usually labor intensive, manufactured goods
such as office furniture, plastic products, and household novelties and
village tourism.



- 20
C. Cost and Financing
Estimated Costs
4.08      The total cos: of the project is estimated at US$274 million (Ft
16,000 billion equivalent), of which US$122 million (45 percent) would be
foreign exchange, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2: PROJECT COST StMIARY
-  Total
-----(Ft M) ---(US$ M)--------   2 Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Crc.p Productiou     i.3a4   3,152    4,456    22    52    74       71     37
B. Latetot. Production  1,949    575    2,524    32    10    42        23     21         L
C. lZorticlaura         1,111    107    1.219    18     2      20       9      10
D. Agroprocessing & Other    1,116  1,642    2,751    19    27    46   O0     23
E. Trade Infrestructure  186    227      413     3      4      7       55      4
F. Services & Training   510    in       638     9      2      11      20      5
Total Baseline Costs    6,178  5,830   12,008   103    97    200       49    100
Phyuical Contingencies  618    583    1,201    10    10    20       49      10
Price Contingencies  2,378    880    3,258    39    15    54        27     27
Total Pfoject Costs     9,174  7,293   16,467   152    122    27..     45    137
NOTE: Nuimibers may not add up due to rounding.
4.09        The base costs were derived from feasibility studies, net of taxes
and duties, and adjusted by the appraisal mission to prices of November 1989
at the exchange rate of 6OFt/US$. Price contingencies for foreign exchange
costs have been allocated at 4.9 percent in 1990-95 and for local costs at 15
percent, 12 percent, 10 percent, 8 percent, and 7 percent in 1990-91, 91-92,
92-93, 93-94, and 94-95 respectively. Taking into account the rehabilitation
of buildings and other civil works and quality differences of equipment,
physical contingencies were set at 10 percent of base line costs. The project
funds are expected to be committed by December 1994 and project activities
completed by June 1995. See Annex 5 for detailed cost tables.
4.10        A Bank loan of US$100 million is proposed to cover about 36
percent;of total project cost and about 82 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange component. The Bank loan would not finance taxes and duties. As
shown in Table 3, additional financing required for project implementation
would be provided by: (a) NBH and commercial banks (US$107 million or 39
percent of project cost); (b) sub-borrowers in the form of equity
contributions (US$$2 million or about 19 percent of project cost);
(c) Government (US$1 million or 0.4 percent of project costs); and (d) OECD
donor agencies for training and technical services (US$14 million or 5 percent
of project cost) and while most of the funds for this component have already
been committed, the Government continues to seek donor financing and has
undertaken to assure the provision of the funds required for full
implementation. The Bank loan would be made to NBH for 15 years including a
five-year grace period at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-21-
t       SOURCES OF FINACING
(US$ Millions)
UB8I
Camnrcial    Government   Project
Banks     Contribution   Beneficiaries  IBRD  OECD TOTAL
Squipment & services /   54       -            36     10      -   19o
Civil Works         53            -           16        -     -   69
Tecbnical Services  _                         -X  _    _     1     1
TOTAL           107            1           52      100    14  274
Percentage Distribution  392      12          192    36X    52  100l
D.  Procurement
4.11        Internas.ional competitive bidding (ICB) would apply for contracts
greater than US$300,000 while prevailing commercial procedures which are
acceptable to the 3ank and which include obtaining price quotations from at
least three suppliers would apply for contracts less than US$300,000 for farms
and enterprises. However, ICB and LIB procedures may be used in cases where
such procedures would produce a distinct competitive advantage. Goods and
technical licenses which the Bank agrees are: (a) proprietary; (b) the timing
is critical for efficient project execution; or (c) needs to be compatible
with other installed equipment, would be procured through direct negotiation
with the proprietor on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Experience from recent farm machinery and equipment procurement for large
scale farms confirms that ICB procedures have had a significant impact on
equipment prices. Host foreign equipment manufacturers are already
repre.aented in Hungary, and competition is strong. Although prices for
equipment procured through ICB are about 5-7 percent lower compared to "off-
the-shelf" local shopping, it takes at least six months to arrange an ICB farm
machinery package compared to a few weeks for direct purchase. However, while
the number of suppliers for servicing large scale farms and enterprises is
large and growing, suppliers for private, small scale farms and small
agroprocessing ventures are just getting established. Distribution of
equipment and supplies for the private sector is carried out by local
organizations (e.g. Hermesz, AFESZ, TSKER, SKAIA, etc.). While the existing
network remains inadequate, major improvements are expected shortly as many
Hungarian companies, associations and cooperatives are in the midst of
negotiations with foreign manufacturers to establish dealership and service
networks. Also, MEM vigorously supports market entry of major manufacturers
of small scale equipment and supplies. Procurement arrangements for the
project are summarized in Table 4 and show approximate amounts by procurement
method. All arrangements would be in eccordance with the Bank procurement
guidelines.



-22-
Table 4: PROCUREMENT
(US$ Million)
Proiect Element        ICB       LIB        Other        Total
Civil Works a/           -          -         69           69
Eqqipment k/            50         37        103 c/       190
(50)      (10)       (40)        (100)
Technical Services       -                    15           15
TOTAL                   50        37         187          274
(50)      (10)       (40)        (100)
a/  Civil works, mainly remodeling, executted by force account, not                  r
being financed by the Bank.
T/ Includes incremental working capital and services such as business
planning and marketing
i   Standard commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
NOTE:  Amount from Bank loan is in brackets.
4.12        Total amount of Bank loan funds to be used under ICB for equipment
purchase is estimated at US$50 million.  The equipment to be purchased under
the project would include machinery and goods for private small scale farming
such as small sized tractors, soil preparation, cultivating and harvesting
equipment, feed mills, pick-up trucks, wagons, storage equipment', electric
fencing, animal treatment handling items, manure spreaders, milking machinery,
green house irrigation equipment and small chilling chambers.  Also, private
farmers would purchase some construction materia1s for remodelling of their
facilities, which they would, most likely, 'carry out on their own. Large
sca4e farms would purchase a wide variety of equipment and materials including
large scale tractors with complete sets of associated implements, combine
harvesters, plows, discs, diggers, harrows, drainage canal cleaners, heating
systems for poultry grow out sheds, feeding storage tanks and conveyors,
automatic barn cleaners, animal treatment equipments trucks, wagons, a wide
variety of agroprocessin& equipment, machinery for manufacturing of small
consumer goods such as office furniture, plastic products, and household
novelties.  Consultants and services may be retained for export m4rketing by
all farms and agroprocessing enterprises including those which currently may
not be undertaking rehabilitation of their farms and plants; enterprises
seeking project funds may hire consultants to help prepare medium-term
business plans which would form part of the documentation for subloan requests
from the commercial banks. Services and goods would be made available to
enterprises, farms, foreign trading organizations and other trading entities
\                                                         \,\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 23 -
for marketing, and marketing development, training and technical services.
Those technical services and training (paras 5.14-5.24) which are to be
financed by donor grant funds would be purchased under the prevailing
guidelines of the individual donor agency.
4.13        All bid packages for equipment, supplies and technical licenses
estimated to cost over US$1.0 million equivalent, and bid packages for
consultant services would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation, including pre-qualification if necessary. It is estimated that
such prior review would cover about 30 percent of the total estimated value of
contracts. Civil works contracts, not financed by the Bank (about US$69
million total), would be procured under prevailing commercial procedures,
whichi include obtaining price quotations from at least three contractors, and
are considered appropriate.  Asstutancos were Siven that subloan beneficiaries
would follow the stipulated procurement procedures.
E.  Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement
4.14        The allocation of the proposed Bank loan of US$100 million is
shown in Table 5:
Table 5: ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Z of Expenditures
_______ gateaorv _Amount                 to be financed
Goods and consultants,   100.0  100S of foreign expenditures
services for onfarm and         and 100X of local expenditures
marketing develnpment           .ex-factory cost) for goods and
75Z of local expenditures
for goods and related services procured
locally; 802 of local expenditures for
services of consultants domiciled wiVtin
the territory of the Guarantor andJl002
of foreign expenditures for services of
othpr consultants; 100X of foreign
expinditures for technical licenses and
marketing activities
For the project components, all disbursements for contracts valued at less
than US$500,000 equivalent would be oia the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOB) which detail the individual transactions; existing arrangements for SOEs
at the commercial bank level were found to be satisfactory. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the commercial banks,
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and made available for
review by the Bank upon request.  Withdrawal applications against contracts of
over US$506,000 equivalent will be fully documented. Two types of subloans
would be made under the project. In the case of the first, the Bank loan
would finance 100 percent of goods and services directly imported by the
subborrowers which would, generally,' be the large scale farms and marketing
agencies.  In the case of the second, the Bank loan would finance 75 percent
of forint-denominated subloans to private small scale farmers and



-24-
entrepreneurs who would then purchase goods and services through normal
business channels.
4.15        To facilitate the Borrower's access to the loan, NBH will
establish a special account into'which the Bank would deposit from time to
time amounts determined with reference to the actual need for financial
resources as estimated.  Th; special account would have an authorized amount            -
of US$8 million which would be adequate to finance reimbursement requests from          ;
participating banks.  A record of all contracts financed and a permanent
accounting record of operations financed would be kept by NBH and be aivfilable         |
for review by Bank missions upon demand. Payments from the special account
would only be made for eligible expenditures indicated in the Loan Agreement.
An audit report by an independent auditor oai the special ac¢ount would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank no later than five months after the end of
each fiscal year.
4.16        It is anticipated that the Bank loan will be completely disbursed
by December 31, 1995 in accordance with the disbursement schedule givet in
Annex 6. Disbursement experience was quite favorable in the case of the Grain
Storage and Mechanization Project which became 'ffective in August 1983 and
completely disbursed by December 1986. The Crop'Improvement Project is
virtually completely committed and will close on schedule. The Integrated
Livestock Industry Project has been broadened in scope and the loan is now 90
percent committed and will, most likely, also close on tchedule. The
suggested disbursement period for the proposed project is accelerated relative
to the disbursement profile of agricultural credit projects throughout the
Bank and projects in,the EMENA region which both indicate a 10-year period.
In addition to the favorable couittry experience in Hungary, project
disbu;sement is expected to'be completed over about 5 years because:
(i) lessons learned from previous operations are incorporated in the design of
this project; (ii) part of the funds will go to many private farmers who will
be requesting small, but quickly disbursed subloans; and (iii) large scale
farms will be able to make more direct purchases from project proceeds than
under previous projects. Nodel bidding documents prepared by the Hungarian
authorities in,consultation with the Bank are being used to streamline
procurement under the project relative to past experience. Also, the above
mentioned special account will facilitate disbursement, particularly, siubloans
to private farmers.
4.18        As an incentive to participating banks making subloans to private,
small scale farmers, the Bank loan would retroactively finance all such
subloans contracted after January 1, 1990, which are expected to amount to
less than US$10 million, 10 percent of the, ,Loan amount.
F.  Environmental Imnact
4.19        The potential unfavorable environmental impact ok the project
would mainly consist of air and water pollution resulting from agroprocessing
enterprises and ground and surface water rollution resulting from farm



- 25 -
chemicals.  Theproject has been reviewed under the provisions of Operational
Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental Assessment" and placed in screening
Category B. Projects in this category do not require environmental
assessment; however, each of,the subproj\ects with a subloan size greater than
US$150,000 to be financed under the project would be reviewed by the Ministry
of Environment before approval for compliance with the relevant environmental
regulations. Existing regulations for environmental protection, particularly
for water pollution from the proposed farms under the project, have been
reviewed and were found to be acceptable to the Bank. A Bank mission
confirmed that Government places high priority on the quality of the,                  F
environment and is implementing its laws and regulations in compliance with
pollution control guidelines as set by the Ministry of Environmental
Protection fot air pollution and solid waste; those guidelines were found
acceptable by the Bank.  Government imposes an effective graduated charge on           1
eLterntrises Waich cause pollution, and enterprises are finding it more                 PM
economical to Install pollution control devices rather than pay the charges.
Each subborrower has the responsibility of clearing his investment proposal
with the Ministry of Environment before submitting his subloan application to
the commercial bank. Assurances were obtained that each subproject would be
undertaken in accordance with the country's safety, health and environmental
standards.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization of Imnlementation
5.01        NBH will be responsible for onlending the Bank loan proceeds and
monitoring the use of these funds. NBH would; (a) collect onlending
information from all participating banks on a regular basis; (b) review the
operations of commercial banks and, in general, review selected subloan
appraisals; and (c) review and assist in the preparation of procurement
documents. The Government, through MEM and tT as appropriate, will be
responsible for management and supervision of technical services, training and
extension (paras. 5.14-5.25) which would provide supporting services to
project beneficiaries and financed by donor grant funds. These activities
would include preparing terms of reference for consultants, contracting and
supervising the works of consultants, and putting their recommendations into
practice. In addition, project beneficiaries would directly contract
productive services such as business planning (para. 5.04) and marketing
services which would be finance by loan proceeds.
5.02        The key link in project implementation would be the relationship
of commercial banks with investors. Both would need technical assistance as
they move to commercial operations based on market principles and away from
excessive Government involvement. Commercial banking operations are expected
to improve considerably under the FSMP as it is to be implemented in parallel.
The preparation of\\investment proposals, feasibility studies and business



- 26
plans has been improving and would improve further by the entry of new
consulting companies including joint ventures with foreign partners.
5.03        The MT would be responsible for the implementation of the
marketing component and coordinate the work to be carried out under the
project by the Agromarketing Office, a limited liability company, and the
different government agencies, e.g. HUNGEXPO, KOPINT, charged with export
promotion and trade. The commercial banks would be responsible for approving
subloans and assuming the risk of the subloans, based on applications for
large scale farms and enterprises which would include: (a) a business plan;
(b) an investment feasibility study; and (c) a statement of creditworthiness.
The banks would hire consultants from time to time on their own account to
asslst them in undertaking assessments of potential subborrowers' business
plans in those areas where special expertise is required. Subloan
applications of private farmers and enterprises would include a two page                 U
summaTy of the purpose and scope of the investment.                                      E
5.04        Large scale farms seeking a subloan are expected to prepare a
complete business plan, whose purpose is to assist the enterprise to improve
its.international competitiveness by increasing its value added, improving its
product quality, adjusting closely to market requirements, reducing costs of
production and increasing productivity and direct export marketing and sales.
Project beneficiaries may use consultants to help them prepare a business
plan. As 'a result of the business plan preparation and its implementation,
enterprises will be better positioned to export to the convertible currency
market.  A business plan would include the following elements:  (a) history of
the enterprise and its current situation; (b) analysis of the enterprise's
product lines and marketing strategy; (c) evaluation of technological
capabilities; and (d) organizational structure, management and information
system. Within the context of the business plan, enterprises would also make
projections of their financial statements with a view to bringing certain
financial ratios, e.g. current ratio, liabilities to net worth, collection
period, sales to inventory, assets to sales, and return of assets, up to the
industry norm levels which will be made available by the commercial banks.
B. 
5.05        Nine commercial banks would initially serve as intermediary banks
under the project. These are: (a) Commercial and Credit Bank (CCB),
(b) Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB), (c) Budapest Bank (BB), (d) Agrobank;
(e) Inter Europa Bank; (f) General Bank for Venture Financing; (g) National
Savings Bank; (h) Industry Development Bank; and (i) Mezobank, which will be
participating in a Bank financed project for the first time. Other banks may
participate in the project provided these can meet the general requirements,
based on the stipulated criteria. Under the FSNP, it has been agreed that
banks that intend to participate in that project would have to meet the
following eligibility criteria:



- 27 -
(a)  sound financial performance in accordance with requirements of
prudential regulations, including capital adequacy. Preparation of
three years' financial projections and plans to maintain and improve
performance (including attainment of key financial performance
indicators);2
(b) presentation of an institutional development strategy, includirtg
plans with an implementation schedule to introduce efficient management
in the bank;
(c) commitment by the bank to carry out an annual external audit in
line with international standards by qualified auditors;! and                      -
(d)  based on the audit under (c), the participating bank would makep              C
the necessary adjustments to Its financial position, including the
establishment of adequate loan loss reserves and provisiotus, based on             -
the assessment of its loan portfolio according to pr-udent loan
classification criteria.
These requirements will also be the criteria for eligibility of banks under
the present project, and their compliance will be monitored under supervision.
The overall audit of the major banks by qualified auditors has already been
completed. Further, as a measure to strengthen the commercial banks,
Government would monitor the carrying out of portfolio audits of the three
major commercial banks (BB, CCB, and HCB), and, based on the outcome of the
audits, help develop and subsequently implement an action plan to restore, as
appropriate, the solvency of the banks, including the possible contribution of
necessary resources to ensure theftr capital adequacy.
5.06        The NBH will pass on the Bank loar, proceeds to the participating
banks for a maturity not exceeding fifteen years while loans made by the
intermediary banks to the final beneficiaries will have maturities of not more
than 10 years, including a maximum grace period of three years. The signing
of subsidiary loan agreements between NBH and two eligible intermediary banks
would be a condition for loan effectiveness. NBH would bear the risk of
exchange, for which it is covered by a variable spread (currently about 9
percent), between the Bank lending risk and its refinancing rate of 17 percent
(para 2.21).
a Indicators were made available to NBH and Participating Banks under FSMP.
A/ Audits are to be carried out according to terms of reference which were
agreed under FSMP.
pl The three major banks, CCB, HCB and BB, already had, by March 1990,
external audits carried out by international auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The financial performance of most of the smaller banks is expected to be
better than the three major banks as the former did not iWherit loans from
the NBH when the two tier banking system was initiated.
\                                                      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K



28 -
5.07        NBH will onlend the Bank loan proceeds to the participating
institutions at its prevailing refinancing rate (currently 17 percent per
year), which is adjustable to reflect changing economic conditions. NBH,
pursuant to its credit policy guidelines, has raised its refinancing rate
regularly in the past to keep it positive in relation to anticipated
it:lation. The recent increase by three percentage points would help to
achieve this objective; domestic inflation as measured by the producer price
index was 15 percent in 1989 and is expected to remain at that level for 1990
(para 2.21).  In connection with the FSMP, the Government has agreed that,
with a view to achieving a positive rate in real terms, the refinancing rate
of the NBH will be so set as to be sufficient to cover: (a) the NBH's average
cost of funds; and (b) the projected differential between the domestic and
international inflation rates, and that these principles would continue to
guidt the refinancing rete for the Bank loan in the future.  Given this               -
assuratnce, the satisfactory adjustments by NBH in the level of che refinancinig
rate in the past, and the desirability of avoiding segmentation of 4nterest
rates by imposin& special onlending rates for Bank funds, proceeds of the Loan
would be on-lent to the participating inistitutions at NBH's prevailing rate.
Refinancing of local currency expenditures would similarly be at NBH's
prevailing refinancing rate. As regards the rates charged by the
participating banks on sub-loans, each of the banks has adopted a lending and
investment policy statement which specifies that interest rates charged on
subloans would conform to the principles of:  (a) adequate margin to cover the
bank's average cost of funds, administrative costs and provisions for doubtful
loans; and (b) positive rates relative to inflation. The NBH will monitor the
compliance with such statements through subsidiary loan agreements; the
relevant data would also be made available to Bank supervision missions to
confirm the continued compliance of the participating banks with these
onlending principles.
5.0$        Intermediary banks would use the proceeds of the Bank loan based
on their planuned requirements for funds to onlend to their clients over the
disbursement period of the project. As a measure to transfer greater
responsibility to irtermediary banks than under previous Bank loans, these
banks would be required to pay a commitment fee on the indicated amount of
Bank loan proceeds for which they bid. As the maturity of the NBH loans to
the banks would be longer than that of their subloans, intermediary banks may
retain the amounts received by them by way of repayments of subloans and
relend such funds to eligible subborrowers for financing similar subprojects,
provided that such sums are not immediately required for repayment to NBH.
5.09        Intermediary banks would employ sound financial practices and
evaluation standards in implementing the project. Project beneficiaries with
subloans greater than US$300,000 would be required to satisfy the following
criteria: (a) subprojects must provide a projected financial rate of return



- 29 -
and economic rate of return of at least 12 percent0; (b) enterprises should
have a satisfactory financial position as indicated by a current ratio above
1.3, a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 65/35, and a debt service coverage
above 1.5; (c) enterprises would prepare business plans which would indicate
their markets, operations and financing arrangements; and (d) the bulk of the
output of the activities financed would be exportable for convertible
currency. Subloans below the limit of US$300,000 will be evaluated according
to the current procedures of the banks which were found to be satisfactory.
As per current practice, the banks will review such loan requests with
reference to the rates of return on the investments proposed, and the type of
cultivation and production associated with the investments, and the
creditworthiness of the subborrowers based on their balance sheet and income
and expenditure statements, and their past repayment performance.
C.  Small Scale Earm    rr
5.10        This component would enable private, small scale producers to
engage in the production of commodities for which they have a comparative
advantage. The subloans would fitance farm inputs, planting material,
breeding and fattening livestock, equipment, farm machinery, building
construction and other fixed investments and working capital requirements of
the farm. Private farmers are expect-ed to seek subloans of an average
US$10,000 equivalent of which a portion of the subloan financed from Bank
sources would be used mainly for purchase of equipment but with some purchases
of construction materials. The portion of the subloan financed by sources
other than the Bank loan may be used for the purchase of additional land by
farmers who are expanding their farm operations to go into full-time farming.
A two-page farm plan and budget indicating how the investment fits into their
overall farming operations would be sufficient to support the loan
application. Assets to be acquired from loan proceeds would be accepted as
collateral.  Private individuals would be acceptable as sureties or guarantors           -
provided they possess the necessary assets.  Marketing contracts could also be
accepted as security for loans. Though no funds have been earmarked for;loans
to private farmers under the project with a view to avoiding )segmentation,
there are strong grounds to expect that the banks will be significantly active
in financing such farmers as contemplated under the project. The banks
recognize that these farmers account for 50 percent of the value added in
agriculture and that because of their intensive cultivation practices, their
production is of high qualitr and largely export-oriented. Their past record
in respect of loan repayments is also creditable, as seen from the experiende
pi ERR is a proxy for the opportunity cost of capital in the country which
is estimated to be about 12 percent and, therefore, all subprojects should
meet this threshold level. The FRR is also set at 12X in constant prices as
it is considered adequate to provide a sufficient margin for beneficiaries
to repay the principal and interest on their subloans, particularly since
beneficiaries would also agree to meet the debt servici coverage rati85 of
1:5:1.



30-
of the NSB which has been active in this respect.  Many of the small farmers
have also been finding innovative ways of operating efficiently either as
members of groups or with links to large farms or joint ventures. The
flexible procedures proposed under the project for lending to small farmers
would also help the flow of credit to them.  Taking into account these factors
and tae exnected transfer of assets from the large farms which would increase
the land held by the private farmers and their capital base, the banks look
upon such farmers as constituting a dynamic subsector of Hungarian agriculture
and are equipping themselves to serve such clientele efficiently by expanding
their network of branches and related staffing. It is understood that loans
of the order of US$35 million equivalent were advanced by banks to private
farmers in the first quarter of 1990.
5.11        Under the Third Industrial Restructuring Project (Ln.3020-HU),
provision was made for the development of the capacity of the banking system
to cater to small businesses. Each participating bank was required to prepare
a small business credit manual containing procedures and specific viability             -
criteria. To date, approval by the Bank for such a manual has been obtained
by nine participating commercial banks.  In addition, these banks have
established special units to handle small scale loans. Assurances were
obtained that intermediary banks would assign or hire a full-time qualified
agricultural credit officer for each branch which has reached a level of 200
loans granted to small scale farms per year or which has reached a level of
1,000 loans in its loan portfolio.
5.12        The proposed project would utilize the existing evaluation
standards and organizational structure of each intermediary bank in processing          i
the loan applications of small scale farmers. However, considering the
relatively smaller size of these enterprises and their special
characteristics, some guidelines would be suitably modified.  Each,
intermediary bank would prepare for their credit officers the following
information: (t) activity models for selected livestock and crops which would
give an indicat.on of the projected cash flow of selected activities, rough
estimates of rLLeir repayment capacity and returns to family labor;
(b) availability of market outlets; and (c) product prices to farmers.
Assurances were obtained that a training program for 'preparing intermediary
bank staff to service private, small scale farmers would be incorporated into
the ongoing bank training program. The International Training Center for
Bankers established in February 1989 has entered into a joint venture
agreement with the Paris-based Centre Internationale de Formation de la
Profession Bancaise. Its courses are aimed at the middle management levels in
the banks and other financial institutions.
5.13        In evaluating the eligibility of individual borrowers, each
intSrmediary bank would consider their farming experience, adequacy of assets
and repaying capacity based on income from the proposed enterprise, income
from other sources and taking into consideration the level of family
expenditures. The subloan would be for a period of up to 10 years including a
three year grace period. The lending guidelines developed by intermediary
banks would be reviewed regularly in the course of Bank supervision of the
project.



31-
D. Technical Assistanct and Training
Agricultural and Food Maiketing
5.14        The liberalization of domestic and foreign trade implies new
approaches to product marketing. Large farms, cooperatives, wholesale and
trading companies will hirG traders for their new commercial department.
Similarly, agroprocessing firms will need product managers as well as a whole
range of marketing specialists in their food marketing departments. Two
different types of skills will therefore be greatly needed: (a) agricultural
marketing specialists in charge of commodity type of products, on the domestic
as well as the foreign markets; and (b) food marketing specialists in charge
of a company's product differentiation (using a specific marketing-mix for the
product) and the merchandising of it.  A training program in agricultural anda
food marketing has been agreed with Government to: (a) fill an educational gap            -
toward a market oriented economy; and (b) lay the basis for a self designed
agricultural market organization by Subsector Interprofessional Organizations             -
(SIO) (para 5.17). Over the five year project period: (a) two hundred young
executives and undergraduates will attend masters' programs in North America
and West European Universities and Business Schools; and (b) another two
hundred executives will participate in three to four weeks training sessions
abroad. Finally, two-day seminars respectively on agricultural marketing and
food marketing will be run every year in Hungary, with the participation of
foreign speakers and Hungarian specialists.
Commodity Exchange Development
5.15        Three major Hungarian banks and three trade companies have formed
the Hungarian Agricultural Commodity Exchange (TTK). Its first task is to
cdncentrate on market operations of commodities such as grains and protein
feeds. When operating in a more liberal pricing environment, TTK would serve
as an exchange for physical delivery of the products and also as a hedging
tool against price fluctuations, i.e. future market. TTK is a non-profit
organization in charge of organizing the exchange, forwarding market
information and organizing training courses for brokers, commission hovtses and
other professions. Consultants would be hired to help: (a) design the
commodity exchange according to existing international standards;
(b) establish an independent Clearing House for transactions which would
guarantee deliveries and payments; (c) create an electronic monitoring and
mailing system for the Exchange; (d) organize the delivery procedures
including standardizing futures contracts; and (e) organize seminars in
Hungary for training local operators on commodity market trading.
MarketJInformation Service
5.16        MEM has recently begun the operation of a Market Information
Servi.ce (MIS) whiich seeks to collect, process and publish price information
about food and agricultural products with the initial efforts focussed on the
fruit and vegetable whQlesale markets; sstbsequent efforts will include all the
major wholesale markets at the subsector level, e.g. cereals, livestock, small



32 -
animals. In the process of facilitating the development of a market oriented
economy, the component would facilitate the supply of price infor¶ation to
professionals operating in the agricultural marketing chains. The developmant
of MIS into a full fledged operating system would require a three-year period
and include hiring and training of staff with similar organizations in 1hestern
Europe, improvement of the computer and telecommunication equipment, and the
publication of wholesale price information (in-country as well as indicative
international market prices).
Subsector Interprofessional darketing Organizations (SIO)
5.17        MT will facilitate the establishment of SIOs which will include
representatives of small farmers, state farms, cooperatives, wholesale trading
companies and retail industries. Two or three SIOs are expected to be
organized annually. The SIOs will cover all the major agricultural sub-
sectors: fruit and vegetables, meat and livestock, dairy, cereals and
oilseeds, sugar and sweeteners, wine, tobacco, wool andl others. They will be
in charge of (a) efficient exchange systems at the wholesale level for raw
products and, when applicable, for first processed products; (b) information
transmiss'on and intermediation between Government and members of SIO; and              o
(c) generic products promotion, domestic and abroad. Technical assistance by
Hungarian and foreign consultants will assist the SIOs in preparing working
sessions and technical proposals. Where relevant, SIO members will visit
marketing institutions abroad including (a) foreign SIOs; (b) auction markets;
(c) future markets; (d) wholesale markets; and (e) retail companies.
Agricliltural Insurance Scheme
5.18         Two general insurance companies, both owned by Government, offer
agricultural insurance to large scale agricultural enterprises and, to a
limited extent, to individual farmers. Two years ago, multi-risk coverage was
discontinued, and single risk coverage is now available for hail, frost and
flood to large scale farms but only for hail to private farmers. Damage due
to drought is covered under a special arrangement with the Government. The
companies enjoy a subsidy from the Government equal to Ft 500 million yearly
to partially cover losses for frost and flood damage but this will be
withdrawn by the end of 1991. They will now have to develop their
agricultural operations on a commercial footing if they are to continue such
operations. As a basis for determining future actions a consultant study
would be commissioned.
5.19        The major objective of the study would be to assess the present
stage of development of the agricultural insurance system, identify problems,
recommend solutions atid propose a long range strategy to develop the system on
a commercial basis. On the technical aspects, the study would assess the type
of coverage offered and the procedures in underwriting, supervision and loss
adjustment as well as identify the need for adjustment in actuarial
calculations. On the organizational. 4spects, it would determine actuarial
capability and identify the need for additional manpower and training; it
would alsa determine the organizational capability for loss adjustment,
considering the need to expand coverage of private farmers. In general, the



- 33 -
study would examine the linkage between the agricultural insurance companies
and lending institutions and assess the merits of establishing a calamity fund
by goveitnment to cover risks which would not normally be covered by commercial
insurance.
Training Farm Managers in Business Plannin& and Marketing
5.20        With a view to familiarizing a group of progressive managers of
large scale farms with modern business planning and marketing, a program would
be prepared for training in Hungary and abroad at an acceptable management
institute.   The program would be organized by HEM and the Training Institute
of the Agricultural University of Godollo and would train about twenty farm
managers and trainers in this material during a six week course. The program
would cover the following topics: (a) strategic farm/business planning;
(b) marketing; (c) economics/finance; and (d) training methods for improved
management.
Imail -ggNEL   Indu_t1&ry for Business Planning
5.21        Due, in part, to the paucity of technical services in business
planning, financial management and accounting, many farms and enterprises are
not aware of the usefulness of these modern tools for managing their
operations.  Foreign consultants have proven to be too expensive in terms of
foreign exchange needs and not always fully responsive to the special
circumstances and constraints faced by Hungarian firms.   Bank funds are
available under the Third Industrial Restructuring Project (Ln.3020-HU) to
help local firms finance joint ventures, contract foreign consultants,
purchase computers and software and make other arrangements to the benefit of ri
the foreign as well as the local consulting firms. Commercial banks may also
be expected to extend the requirement of enterprises preparing a business plan
along with their subloan application to all their loans, and not only for the
World Bank supported project subloans. In order to stimulate interest among
enterprising individuals and expansion of services of existing consulting
companies, MEY and commercial banks would jointly hold a seminar in Budapest
for local and foreign consulting companies to exchange informatlon and know-
how with a view to possibly entering into joint ventures in the area of
business planning, financial management and accounting. MEM and the
commercial banks would also prepare a program of training for local
entrepreneurs.
Training of Private Farmers
5.22        The four major agricultural universities and fifteen agricultural
schools would develop family sized demonstration farms which will be used as
centers for training private farmers directly as well as for offering special
training to those managers of large scale farms who are in charge of
integration of the small scale farmers into their operations (either on a
contract basis in terms of growing out animals, e.g. poultry, pigs, beef
cattle, or supplying the large scale farms with produce which they, in turn,
markets through their wholesale or retail network). This training would
concentrate on farm management; livestock farming; crop production and farm



- 34 -
mechanization; and focd technology. These institutions would send a group of
30 trainers abroad for training in how to organize and implement training
programs; how to set up demonstration farms and make the best use of them as
teaching tools; how to teach farm management to private small scale producers;
and how to strengthen the decision making tasks of small scale farmers through
methods of farm planing and budgeting.
Extension Service for Private Farmers
5.23        Based on initial work carried out by the Government with technical
support from the rural extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries of the Netherlands in December 1989-February 1990, Government would
carry out a study with the assistance of foreign consultants to determine the
lines on which extension arrangements are to be established for private, small
scale farmers. The principal beneficiaries of an extension system would be
independent private farmers; integrated, small scale farms; and new groupings
of farmprs in the form of specialized cooperatives. While the study is
underway, several training activities will be organized and implemented to
provide a running start on staffing and training extension agents. The
findings and recommendations of the consultants on an extension program would
be discussed in a national forum attended by different interest groups within
and outside of Government, before further steps are taken.
Livestock Advisory Services
5.24        The Livestock Advisory Services which were established
independently of MEK in 1983 have not proven to be a profitable or responsive
system.  The current six regional service groups cerry out several services to
livestock farmers such as artificial insemination, herd registration, animal
performance testing and others. In order to improve the effectiveness and the
profitability of these services, a consultant study would be undertaken to
identify the weaknesses in the present organization and recommend
modifications in the system including the relationship of the service centers
with the newly formed Animal Breeders' Association and the Chamber of
Agriculture and adoption of the success factors of similar service centers in
Western European countries. The terms of reference for all the above training
and technical services are found in Annex 7.
E.  Reporting. Auditing and Supervision
5.25        Semi-annual and ann.ual progress reports would be jointly compiled
by NBH, MEM and MT. The NBH controller's office would set up a project
account at the start of the project and the participating banks would keep a
detailed record of all subloans extended under the project, whether financed
with Bank or NBH funds. The intermediary comme-.aial banks wou3d submit
summary sheets for approved subloans to NBH, indicating: (a) up-to-date
project financial status, (b) the type of subloans financed, and (c) the
respective sources of finance used such as 'Bank funds, NBH funds, beneficiary
equity contributions and Government subsidies. In the case of subloans to



- 35 -
small scale producers, detailed information such as: (a) characteristics of
beneficiaries, (b) type and volume of subloans financed, and (c) recovei'
performance, wo4sld be summarized and reported by branch. This information
would be used by NBH to monitor progress of the project. MEN and MT would
provide annual reports to the Bank on the non-lending aspects of the project.
5.26        NBH would furnish to the Bank, within five months after the end of
each fiscal year, a report of the project accounts, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. NBH would also retain the annual audited
financial statements of institutional borrowers for Bank staff review during
supervision missions. Within six months after the closing date of the Bank
loan, NBH will prepare and furnish to the Bank a project completion report
dealing with the implementation of the project, and the cost and benefits
derived and expected to be derived. All project accounts, the revolving
funds, statements of expenditure, and the financial statements of project
entities receiving a subloan greater than US$1 million equivalent will be
audited at the end of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. Short form annual audit reports for the preceding fiscal year will
be sent to the Bank no later than the end of May each year. The annual
financial statements of the intermediary banks will also be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank at the end of each fiscal year.
Assurances were obtained that the above-mentioned reporting and auditing
requirements for the project would be carried out by intermediary banks, NBH
and Government.
5.27        Project supervision would be carried out in line with the other
agricultural loans to Hungary in the Bank portfolio as all these projects seek
to achieve either directly or indirectly, apart from their specific
objectives, increased revenues from exports and improved efficiency in the
operations of farming and agroprocessing enterprises within the context of the
economic reform program. There are three fundamental categories of actions to
be supervised in the project: (a) onlending to project beneficiaries (para
4.07) by commercial banks; (b) technical services and trainins' financed by
donor grants and managed by MEM and MT (paras 5.14..5.24); and (c) completion
of agricultural policy actions (para 6.04-6.12). Regarding the onlending
operations, Bank financial staff will coordinate their supervision with NBH in
reviewing the interest rates charged to subborrowers, the strengthening of the
commercial banks in servicing private, small scale farmers, the quality of
subloans, procurement and disbursement of Loan proceeds. The supervision of
technical services and training will require expertise ir marketing and market
development and agricultural training. Agricultural policy changes will be
monitored by Bank economists according to the dates by which specific polisy
actions are to take place. Bank missions should supervise the project at six
months intervals and allow for about 12 staff-weeks/year for the first two
years of project implementation and, after that, the manpower requirement can
be adjusted according to the need to solve problems and accelerate project
implementation progress.
5.28        Monitoring of project activities will be undertaken by the
commercial banks regarding the onlending operations, by the MEM and MT
regarding the technical services and training components and by MEM regarding



- 36
the agricultural policy actions. Annex 8 contains the formats for the
monitoring of the onlending operations, including procurement, commitments,
disbursements and suummary sheets of approved subprojects by commercial banks.
VI. AGRICULTUAL POLUCY CHANGES
A. Producer Prlces
6.01        As a result of the continuing policy dialogue which includes Bank
sector work, studies on special issues carried out by Hungarian research
institutes and project preparation work, several critical policy issues were
identified which need to be addressed in order for the sector to proceed
further toward liberalization, improved productivity and financial discipline.
Some of these 'issues also form part of the proposed SAL as they are directly
linked to the overall performance of the economy. Producer prices in the
agricultural sector constitute a major policy issue in this perspective.
6.02        Relatively low profitability and flagging international
competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture have led to a realization that
producer prices need to reflect international prices as an efficiency
standard. Though Government is concerned about the effect of price
liberalization on consumer prices of foods, on earnings from food exports and
on farmers' incomes, it is now recognized that gains from an unregulated
pricing system will outweigh any unfavorable effects and accordingly, all
agricultural prices except for milk and wheat were freed with effect from
January 1, 1990. Annex 9 shows the evolution of price liberalization from
1988-90.
B. Subsidies
6.03        Negotiations between the IMF/Bank and Government have resulted in
a significant reduction in the Government budget deficit mainly caused by
subsidies which accounted for 17.5 percent of GDP in 1989. The Government is
committed to a progressive reduction in the level of suzbsidies, especially
those that primarily benefit producers. The share of subsidies in GDP, which
includes consumer, producer, investment and housing sector subsidies, is
expected to be reduced from its 1989 level of 13.2 percent of GDP to no more
than seven percent in 1991 and no more than five percent in 1992.
6.04        In the agricultural sector, subsidies constitute one of the
instruments which Government uses to influence decisions by farm managers as
well as to support investment, production and exports. However, there has
been some withdrawal from Government intervention as indicated by the
reduction of subsidies ii the sector at a rate which has exceeded the rate of
reduction of all subsidies. Agriculture's share of subsidies is expected to
decline from 3.2 percent of GDP (Ft. 57 billion) In 189 to about 1 percent in



- 37 -
1992. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would maintain
and monitor its program for the reduction of investment, production and export
subsidL.es to the agricultural sector within and consistent with the overall
subsidy reduction program. By December 31, 1990, Government would reduce all
agricultural subsidies by at least one third of the agricultural subsidies in
effect during the 1989 calendar year calculated in current prices. Before the
end of each calendar year, the Bank would review: (a) progress in achieving
targeted subsidy reductions; and (b) the new target to be achieved during the
next calendar year. Government would take into account the Bank's comments on
such new target in preparing the final proposal for the following calendar
year. After the one-third reduction in 1990, only 20X (US$ 118 million) of
the remaining subsidies would be in the priority areas for further reduction,
i.e. outside of export, rural infrastructure, and income support programs.
Investment subsidies to farms will be eliminated and replaced with an
investment tax credit which would accrue only to those farms which pay profit
taxes. The intervention fund which allows Government to intervene in
disrupted markets from time to time, would be eliminated. (Annex 10 gives
details on Government's indicative subsidy reduction program.)
6.05        Export subsidies are the most important and the most difficult to
reduce in agriculture because of the variety of supports given by Hungary's
competitors in overseas markets. Agricultural trade accounts for about US$1.7
billion of Hungary's exports which is equally divided between the CMEA and the
convertible currency markets. In the CMEA market, prices are used as units of
account in transferable rubles based on barter trade except for "hard" goods
such as meat and poultry which account for one third of the trade with the
Soviet Union and are denominated in US dollars. Government taxes away the
difference between the imported price in forints and the prices on sales to
the domestic market and uses those funds to subsidize CMEA exports when the
price of the exported good is below the domestic price in forints. Experience
shows a slight surplus in the transfer of the "differential turnover tax"
relative to the CMEA export subsidies. On the convertible market,
particularly, in the EEC, exports face tariff barriers which require subsidies
from time to time depending on the domestic situation of the EEC country.
These subsidies are basically designed to offset the trade barriers and to
provide incentives to enterprises to engage in convertible currency trade.
6.06      One of the long-standing issues in Hungarian agriculture is the
income position of cooperatives located in resource poor areas.   Government
has undertaken an income support program for selected farms which have an
average crown valueV of less than 19. About 90 percent of these subsidies
are transferred to these farms in the form of supplemental farmgate prices but
only on selected commodities which are usua.lly livestock products and 10
percent is given as a direct subsidy to the farm.  The County Council
administers the subsidy and selects the recipients based on Government
guidelines. Prior to 1989, all cooperative managers reported to the County
Z The crown value is an old concept which measures the physical features
of farm land and permits land taxation of average land of over 19 crown
value and subsidies to land of less than that value.
\



-38 -
Councils which heavily influenced the operations and the labor policies of the
coopbratives. This practice has been discontinued and along with the revision
of the present land tax system to be implemented in 1991, the subsidies system
to resource poor areas will also be revised. Assurances were obtained that
the current income support program for large scale farms located on poor
quality land would be revised according to a plan of action to be adopted by
December 31, 1991 and that such income support does not determine or influence
the production of any specific crop and livestock at the farm level.
6.01 Government would retain the subsidy on infrastructure investment such as
rural roads and electrification and honor its commitment to finish the support
payments to farms for previously incurred investment expenditures. However,
there have been no new direct investment subsidies to farms since January
1990, when the Government introduced an investment tax credit.  This
investment tax credit is primarily linked to major livestock products, of
which about 50 percent are produced by private, small scale farmers.
Assurances were obtained that based on a review of the results of its
implementation program of investment tax credits for the agricultural sector,
Government would submit to the legislature draft legislation by December 31,
1992 providing for the revision of investment tax credits in a manner that
such investment tax credits do not determine or influence the production of
any specific crop or livestock at the farm level like the income support
subsidy (para 6.06). This transitional period would assist farmers to adjust
their output mix in line with market forces.
C. Ownershin of Assets in Farming
6.02 The transformation of cooperatives is different in many respects from
that of state farms and state-owned enterprises. There is clearly a sense
among the current leadern of the agricultural cooperatives that HEM,
Federation of Cooperatives and the County Councils should no longer control
the functioning of the cooperatives, and that the existing limitations and
barriers should be completely eliminated by 1991 so that the future of these
institutions should be wholly determined by their members. Cooperatives which
account for about 65 percent of the assets in agriculture have a unique and
ambiguous relationship with their members in regard to the ownership of thc
commonly held assets. As regards farm land, its present distribution in the
1,253 agricultural cooperatives in the country is as follows:
Commonly held land      - 3.0 million ha
Owned by Individuals-----  2.0 million ha
Owned by State      -----  0.2 million ha
Total            -----  5.2 million ha
While there is little problem with the plots to which cooperative members have
original title even if they are now being cultivated within a large field and
the State owned land can be returned to the State or sold at an auction, it is



-39-
the commonly held land which has no identifiable owner that constitutes the
central issue of the transformation process.
6.09      MEM is proposing legislat:on to eliminate many of the important
barriers to land transfer in the sector. For example, cooperatives no longer
require members who leave a them to sell their land to the "central
administrative unit" at a nominal price, but would permit that individual to
take his land or an equivalent plot with him if so decided by the general
assembly of the cooperative. There would be no ceiling on land rentals which
the cooperative pays annually to the members who own land in the cooperative.
The size of the,cooperative land for private use by members has been increased
from 0.6 ha to any limit which the individual cooperative general assembly
stipulates. In four specific cases over the last two years, production
cooperatives were liquidated, and specialized cooperatives were formed. The
membership of the new cooperatives consists of individual entrepreneurs who
have received parcels of the main unit and use much of the equipment in
common. These cooperatives function much the same way as the Western type of
supply and marketing cooperatives. However, further legislation is needed to
support these privatization actions in the sector and to encourage more
orderly transformation. Assurances were obtained that Government would by
June 30, 1991 submit draft legislation to the legislature providing for:
(a) the assignment of ownership rights in the net assets (other than
agricultural land) of the cooperatives to the members of such cooperatives;
and (b) the definition of ownership rights in agricultural land.
6.10      The development of the land market is a first step in privatizing
state owned property. Financing of purchase of agricultural land would be
incorporated into the project as an encouragement for increased land sales:
but more liberal legislation is required. Under the Land Law of June 1989,
about 4,000 ha of farm land has been bought by private, small scale farmers.
While not significant in terms of area, it is a major step forward in the
transfer of land in agriculture.  The major constraints to further land sales             -
are: (a) the failure of the Government to recognize land as a financial
asset; (b) inadequate sources of financing; (c)ythe lack of supporting
services to assist private, small scale farmers in understanding the legal and
financial aspects of land purchase; and (d) the absence of extension, credit
and marketing services for small scale farmers. Assurances were obtained that
the Ministry of Finance would by December 31, 1991 adopt regulat4ons which
require all farms to include on their balance sheets, for accounting purposes,
land as an asset with notional value. MEM is beginning to elaborate formulas
which assist buyers and sellers set rental prices of agricultural land based
on its income earning capacity. Government will establish an office of farm
land which would record all transactions of purfchases and sales of farm land
and make them transparent and available to the public.  Government is expected           m
to regularize the use of land as collateral to obtain commercial bank credit,
and large scale farms should be able to differentiate their land holdings and
mortgage to the commercial bank only that portion of their land which is
required for covering the outstanding loan amount. However, the legal,
procedural and economic basis for mortgages is not clear and is currently
based on a civil code as the Mortgage Law of 1927 has been rescinded.
Assurances were obtained that, Government would take by June 30, 1991, all



- 40
measures necessary to make agricultural land mortgageable for commercial bank
loans.
D.  Rehabilitation of Low Efficiency Farms-
6.11      The first group of 81 cooperatives completed the debt reduction
program on December 31, 1989 (paras 3.12 -3.13). Results indicate that the
program has been successful In that 64 cooperatives restructured their
operations, while seventeen cooperatives failed to perform and, therefore,
will now be required to pay all their previously suspended debts, receive no
Government subsidies and, if found insolvent, their major creditors, usually
the commercial banks, may start liquidation proceedings. Assurances were
obtained that Government would take all measures necessary to liquidate each
large scale farm which is participating in the Government's 1987-90 debt
reduction program and subsequent programs and has failed to meet the financial
targets specified in such programs and has been determined to be insolvent.
The Bank would review with Government by April 30 of each year, the progress
achieved under such debt reduction program; the review would include, inter
alia, the number of large scale farms which failed to meet the financial
targets specified in such program, the farms selected for liquidation, and the
progress achieved under the program for the rehabilitation of low efficiency
farms. The Bank would also be involved in assisting Government improve the
effectiveness of the debt reduction program.
E. Trade Liberalization
6.12      A program of trade liberalization, including domestic and foreign
trade in the food sector, is under way (parAs 2.12-2.17). Parliament is
considering a Trade Law in 1990 which would, among other features, permit
trading firms to be easily established in order to e¶gage in food handling,
storage, transportation and, general trading. Meanwhile, territorial
constraints for processing enterprises to purchase and sell products on the
domestic market are being abolished, and procedures for registration of newly
formed companies are being simplified. However, the so-called strategic
products still need a special license for domestic trade and for expert or
iport. Numerous agricultural and food products are still included in the
lists of exception to free trade. These products mainly include: (a) for
exports: cereals, feedgrains, 9ilseeds, vegetable oil, milk powder, some live
animals and meat products, and poultry; (b) for imnorts: all of the above p.us
agroprocessed products including beverages, canned foods and alcohol which
account for about one-half of value added in agriculture; and (c) for domestic
trade: cereals, feedgrain concentrates, refined spirits, tobacco, coffee,
cocoa, baby foods and selected breeding animals. \Government intends to
shorten the list and reduce state intervention in foreign trading activity;
however, long ter% commitments with CHEA countries as well a.s specific
regulations in European importing countries may slow this process. Of special
importance is the liberalization of agricultural imports as producer prices



-41 -
for agricultural products have been freed and producers will need to face
import competition in the medium term. Presently, imported temperate climate
products are not competitive with local products but freeing of imports is
needed to prevent market distortions and manipulations. Assurances were
obtained that the Government would adopt a plan of action for the gradual
reduction of the licenses on the imports of agricultural products. The plan
would include the use of tariffs on the imports of agricultural products in
accordance with the General Agreement of Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations
to protect domestic agricultural producers from the effects of below market
pricing by foreign competitors.
VII. ESTIMATED PROJECT RESULTS
A. Production
7.01      Although agricultsral production and the supply of food to the
domestic and export markets will increase as a result of project investments,
increased quality and greater efficiency of production, storage, processing
and distribution of food, resulting from project inv.stments would be even
more important. The project would also stimulate g eater diversity in the
supply of food by responding through project inves aents to increasingly
diverse consumer demand both on the domestic and port markets. In most
cases, final consumer food products would contain a higher value added than
that currently available on the market.
B. Markets
7.02      Market analysis for project products was carried out under two
ongoing projects [Livestock Industry Development (Loan No. 2510-HU) and
Agroprocessing Modernization (Loan No. 2936-HU)]; these studies indicated
adequate market possibilities for selected Hungarian agricultural and
agroprocessed products. Agricultural products with the best export prospects
are differentiated pork, beef and sheep products, fresh and cut poultry, fresh
and frozen vegetables, fruits and fruit juices and related wines. The market
research studies carried out also demonstrate the need for a basic marketing
strategy, irrespective of product or market and point to the weak state of
marketing in Hungary. This is particularly true for agricultural commodities
at the wholesale level (i.e. raw and first processed products). At this level,
with only a few exceptions such as flowers or some fruits and vegetables, all
marketing activities were formerly centrally adpinistered. Relatively high
returns can be expected from the improvements in the 'software" aspects of
marketing as better performance in the marketing chain will reduce costs of
handling the products from the farm gate to the final user. The'establishment



- 42 -
of new wholesale market networks will improve allocation of products over
distance, time and quality. Further, price information which will result from
it will improve the decision-making process from the producer to the consumer.
C. Financial Analysis
7.03      The principal financial benefits of the proposed project derive
from fundamental restructuring of agriculture alcng free market principles.
With further liberalization of the economy and the sector, enterprises would
become more concerned with profitability rather than with volume of
production.   This would bring about greater product diversity, higher quality
standards, and higher production volume in cases of short supply. Imported
equipment and technology would reduce operational costs, increase labor
productivity, and minimize adverse environmental impact. Moreover, greater
integration into the world economy would help realize more effectively
Hungary's comparative advantage in agriculture, which would result in
additional exports. Also, Hungary would be better positioned to take advantage
of access to Western markets.
7.04      Feasibility studies have been prepared and have provided the basis
for financial analysis. Details on projections of investment and operating
costs, revenues and cash flows are presented in the project file. Investments
would be more diverse and smaller than under previous agricultural projects;
they would also bear relatively higher rates of return and faster
implementation periods. In all cases considered, the financial analysis of
net incremental benefits indicates that the expected investments would be
financially viable with satisfactory financial rates of return (FRR) ranging
from 15 percent to 40 percent (para 8.06).
7.05      In general, the financial situation of a sample of possible
investors is satisfactory from the standpoint of creditworthiness. Many are
likely to have borrowed under ongoing Bank projects for similar investments,
most of which are already successfully completed. Current ratios in almost
all cases are above the 2:1 standard.  The debt service coverage ratio
averages 2.3 which indicates a satisfactory level of financial resources to
meet current and long term financial obligations.  Moreover, balance sheets of
farms do not reflect the value of land which if included would highlight the
fact that agriculture is substantially underleveraged.   Private investments
in agriculture and related activities are expected to increase substantially
during project implementation as indicated in surveys conducted by several
commercial banks. FRRs for a sample of possible subprojects to be undertaken
by private investors are about 25 percent, which indicates strong potential
interest.



- 43 -
VIII. JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
A. Benefits
8.01        Project benefits would be derived from: (a) increased earnings
from exports, mainly to convertible currency markets; (b) increases in the
value added of the products processed under the project; and (c) transfer of
the ownership of assets, including land, from the state farms and cooperatives
to farmers either organized in groups or as individuals. The project is
expected to generate substantial incremental tax revenues, to contribute
significantly to export revenues and to provide new permanent and seasonal
jobs on the farm as well as in wholesale and retail food trade. Furthermore,
the project would continue to support the transfer of advanced technologies
and modern management techniques. The elimination of most subsidies, and
liberalization of producer prices and import licensing would improve resource
allocation and efficiency in agriculture and the economy at large and would
contribute to Government savings. Market prices and market interest rates are
expected to improve investment efficiency and benefit investors and commercial             U
banks as well as consumers. The project would support the development of a
cohesive, domestic, product market which allocates resources based on supply
and demand; it would also help carry out preinvestment work for future market
infrastructure development.   Finally, the project would provide for various
technical services (costing about US$15 million) to support the development of
wholesale and retail trade facilities, institutions, advanced trade
information systems, and private farmer training, all of which v'ould
facilitate progress towards a market economy.
8.02      The project would expand the role of the private sector, by
supporting an estimated 5,000 private farmers and entrepreneurs. A number of
new private farms and agroprocessing ventures would be based on the
restructuring of loss-making state and cooperative enterprises. Other
beneficiaries of the project would be about 500 large scale state,
cooperative, and joint venture enterprises engaged in agriculture and food
processing. Project beneficiaries would be strengthened in ter\ms of their
financial position and their technical level of production and they would
become more competitive by the exposure to the market.
8.03      Non-quantifiable benefits of the project would include:
(a) institution-building effects such as training and studies related to
project implementation; (b) improved domestic and extort marketing including
penetration of new markets and enhanced assortment and greater quality of food
products on the domestic market; (c) improved farm management; and
(iv) greater competition on the domestic market resxtlting in reduced food
price inflation.



- 44
B. Economic Analysis
8.04      A sample of the most likely investments under the project has been
selected to indicate economic viability. Economic benefits of the project
include incremental production, including improvement in product quality.
Economic costs include incremental operating costs, investment costs, and in
some cases, incremental working capital. The average economic life was
estimated at 15 years for all the selected investments. Replacement
investment was not included in the calculation of the Economic Rate of Return
(RRR) or Net Present Value (NPV). The shadow discount rate or opportunitj)
cost of capital was estimated at 12 percent, the cut-off rate for acceptable
economic rates of return which will result in optimal utilization of
investment capital.
8.05      The MEM carried out a major effort in the preparation of crop
budgets and farm models for a variety of large and small scale farms as well
as private farmers integrated into large scale farms. The economic rates of
return (ERR) for the sample of selected investments range from 18 percent to
57 percent. In all cases considered, the analysis indicates that the expected
investments would be economically viable. The sensitiv-'ty analysis indicates
that the sample investments are about equally sensitive to operating costs and
benefits but they are more resilient in regard to changes in investment costs
and delays in benefits. Annex 11 gives the assumptions used to calculate the
ERRs of crop budgets and farm models.
8.06      The assumptions used for the selected economic models rely on
experience with the implementation of previous projects (Ln. 2510-HU, Ln.
2738-HU, and Ln. 2936-HU), which showed that they met appraisal expectations.
In addition, the economic analysis of the farm machinery and grain storage
components dtraws on results of the PCR for the Grain Storage and Mechanization
Project (Ln. 2316-HU).  The results for the sel'cted models by component are
presented in Table 6.
Table 6: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RCR, NPW AND SWITCHING VALUtS
Financial Analysis      Economic Analysis
FRR NPV (12X)       ERR    NPV (12X)     Switching Values
(2)  Ft '000         CX)    Ft '000      Total   Total
Costs   Benefits
Cron Produttion
Farm Machinery    31  8.010,990         21    3,613,a00     32       -24
Grain Storage     15   234,500          18       187,600    14       -12
Livestock Production
Beef Fattening I/    29   1,155         23          916     26        21
Pia Fattening /   28    32,400          17       19,670     17       -15
AaronrocessinR
Poultry           36    352,020         23       206,800    5p       -35
Wine              40    40,335          57       57,400    135       -57
&/ Private farmers and owner-operators.
*     Integrated farming operation with smaU scale farmers fattening feeder pigs which were raised by the
large scale farm.



45-
C. Risks
8.07         The major risks of the project include inadequate implementation
by the Government of the agreed policy reforms and insufficient incentives to
managers of large scale farms and agroprocessing enterprises so as to motivate
them to carry out the required restructuring of their farms and enterprises.
Besides political will and determination, these issues involve policy
formulation and implementation capacity of the Government, and institutional
strengthening and business planning at the encerprise level. The potential
unfavorable environmental impact of the project would mainly consist of air
and water pollution resulting from agroprocessing activities\and ground and
surface water pollution resulting from farm chemicals. The project attempts
to reduce these risks by addressing selected policy issues which are also
being pursued under the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan, and by including
in the project, technical services to assist farm managers in identifying
markets and organizing production to meet their quality and quantity
requireme'lts. The project also provides the opportunity for the large farms
to develop business planning as a tool for adopting modern financial,
commercial and management practices at:d to small farmers to become effective
owner-operators by providing them with incentives such as access to credit,
export marketing services and technical services.   Government is
strengthening its enforcement of regulations governing air and water
pollution, and each subborrower will be required to clear its investment
proposal under the Loan with the Ministry of Environment.
IX. A.;REEKENTS REACHED AND RECOMEATION
9.01        The signing of subsidiary loan agreements between NBH and at least
two,eligible intermediary banks would be a condition of Bank loan
effectiveness (para 5.06).
9.02        Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that:
(a)   it would maintain and monitor its program for the reduction
of investment, production and export subsidies to the
agricultural sector within and consistent with the overall
subsidy reduction program. By December 31, 1990, Government
would reduce all agricultural subsidies by at least one
third of t*le agricultural subsidies in effect during the
1989 calendar year calculated in current prices. Before the
end of each calendar year beginning in 1990, the Bank would
review: (a) progress in achieving targeted sxbsidy
reductions; and  (b) the new target to be achieved during
the next calendar year.  Government would take into account
the Bank's comments on such new target in preparing the
final proposal for the following calendar year (para 6.04);



- 46 -
(b)   the current income support program for large scale farms
located on poor quality land would be revised according to a
plan of action to be adopted by December 31, 1991 and that such
income support does not determine or influence the production
of any specific crop and livestock at the farm level para
(6.06).
(c)   based on a review of the results of its implementation program
of investment tax credits for the agricultural sector, it would
submit to the legislature draft legislation by December 31,
1992 providing for the revision of investment tax credits in
a manner that such investment tax credits do not determilie or
influence the production of any specific crop or livestock at
the farm level like the income support subsidy (para 6.07);
(d)   it would by June 30, 1991 submit draft legislation to the
legislature providing for: (a) the assignment of ownership
rights in the net assets (other than agricultural land) of
the cooperatives to the members of such cooperatives; and (b)
the definition of ownership rights in agricultural land (para
6.09);
(e)   it would by December 31, 1991 adopt regulations which require
all farms to include on their balance sheets for accounting
purposes land as an asset with notional value (para 6.10);
(f)   in order to make possible the use of agricultural land as
collateral for commercial bank credits, Government would take
by June 30, 1991, all measures necessary to make agricultural
land mortgageable for commercial bank loans (para 6.10);
(g)   it would take all measures necessary to liquidate each large
scale farm which is participating in the Government's 1987-90
debt reduction program and subsequent programs and has failed
to meet the financial targets specified in such debt reduction
program and has been determined to be insolvent. The Bank
would review with Government by April 30 of each year, the
progress achieved under such debt reduction program; the review
would include, inter alia, the number of large scale farms
which failed to meet the financial targets specified in such
program, the farms selected for liquidation, and the progress
achieved under the program for the rehabilitation of low
efficiency farms (para 6.11); and
(h)   it would adopt a plan of action for the gradual reduction of
the licenses on the imports of agricultural products. The
plan would include the use of tariffs on the imports of
agricultural products in accordance with the General Agreement
of Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations to protect domestic
agricultural producers from the effects of below market pricing
by foreign competitors (para 6.12).



- 47 -
9.03        Assurances were obtained from NBH at negotiations that:
(a)   each subproject would be undertaken in accordance with the
country's safety, health and environmental standards (para
4.19);
(b)   intermediary banks would assign or hire a full-time qualified
agricultural credit officer for each branch which has reached
a level of 200 loans granted to small scale farmers per year
or which has reached a level of 1,000 loans in its loan
portfolio (para 5.11); aud
(c)   a training program for preparing intermediary bank staff to
service private, small scale farmers would be incorporated
into the ongoing bank training program (para 5.12);
9.04        On the basis of the above mentioned agreements and the staff
appraisal, rhe project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 million
for 15 years, including five years grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.  The loan will be made to the National Bank of Hungary and
guaranteed by the Republic of Hungary.
I
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
I~~~~~-



48
V                                    .            j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNEX I
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARYV
INTEGBATED AGRICULTURAL WXORT PROJECT
§elected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A. Selected Reports apd Studies on the Agricultural SeXtor
A.l   Agricultural Sector Strategy for Policy and Structural Change (in
two volumes), August 1, 1989, vol 1 pp. 65, vol 2 pp 161.  This is
the first overall review of the sector by the Bank which was
approved by Goverrment; although dated, it contains a wealth of
basic information on the sector particularly regarding economic
and policy issues. It addresses the particular issues of pricing,
taxes and subsidies; priorities for subsector development;
international trade and marketing; enterprise restructuring,
competition and management of large scale farms; support services
for agricultural production; development of disadvantages areas;
and environmental implications of agricultural development and
growth. The report 4lso contains a section on recommendations and
investment opportunities.
A.2  Agricultural Policy Analysis: A Position Paner on Selected Issues,
September 1, 1989, pp 65. 'This report focuses on six major policy
issues in the sector which are included in the SAL policy matrix
to form an integral part of SAL conditionality. The report was
shared with the Hungarians to inform them of the Bank's view on
the background and recommendations on the issues. They included
the following: property ownership and transformation of
cooperatives; land market development; low efficiency large scale
farms; constraints and recommendations for improving the operation
of domestic trade and msrketing; criteria for setting agricultural
producer prices; and subsidy reduction program. All ok these
issues were discussed with Government during the appraisals of the
Integrated Agricultural Export Project in November 1989 and, the
SAL in February 1990.  Agreements were reached with Government on
all six issues.
B. Selected ReRorts and Stud=es Relating to the Project
B.1   Factors in the Mana8ement of the Loss-Making Large Scaie Farms and
the Main Instruments of Establishing Rrofitable management in
Agriculture, October 1988, pp.175. This report was prepared by
STAGEK, an institute for economic analysis within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MEM). It is a statistical study on the situation of
the loss making, large scalq farms and deals with the following
subjects: characteristics of the large scale farms; special
internal features of loss making cooperatives; regional
characteristics of loss making farms; use of factors of production



49 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
in the loss making cooperatives; and the main tasks to be achieved
in order to turn the loss makers around.
B.2   Development PotentialT  and Trends in Economically Backward
Regigns, June 1989, pp.140. Report written by the Research
Institute for Agricultural Economics (AKI) for three areas: Tab,
located in the southwest and south of Lake Balaton in the province
of Somogy; Nyirseg, located in the east along the Soviet border in
Szaboles-Szatmar county; and Zemplen and Hegykoz, located in the
northeast along the Slovak border in rhe county of Borsod-Abaul-
Zemplen.  The study looks into the nat4ral resource endowments,
capital stock and labor of each area, comments on the
international competitiveness of some agricultural products which
could be grown or raised in the areas, and suggests ways to make
farming profitable through restructuring and integration of
manufacturing and other nonagricultural activities.  It contains a
section of conclusions and recommendations.
B.3   Possible Prospects for the Development of the Agricultural Small
Scale Production, December 1988, pp.167. Study prepared by
STAGEK, the institute of economic analysis of MEM and includes the
following information: the ideological justification of the small
scale agriculture within the communist system; the role of small
scale production n the agricultural sector; production capacity
and Government regulation of the small scale sector; Income of
small scale farmers; comparative benefits of small scale
production and its related characteristics; organizational and
financial issues related to the further development and prospects
of small scale farming.
B.4 Development in the Economic Position of Certain Important
Agricultural Products on Large Scale Farms and Their
Interrelations with the Intearation of Small Scale Producers, June
1989, pp. 320. Study prepared by STAGEK and is divided into three
major areas of interest: first, the procuction possAbilities of
the large scale farms; second, the system of integration of the
small scale farmer within the large scale farm and the
Qrganizationat and financial implications for both the income of
the small scale farmers as well as the benefit to the large scale
farm; and third, machinery requirements for commercial small scale
farmers and its availability for future expansion of the sector
B.5 Investments in Seed Production and Processing Industry, September
1988, pp. 13. Study prepared by Agrober deals with the present
situation in the seed processing industry, the need for improving
the quality and diversity of seed production, domestic and export
sales potential, need for streamlining of the seed industry, areas
of promising investment and their financial and economic
evaluation.,



- 50 -
Page 3 of 3
B.6   Planned Content and Financiaal AnaA4s,  pp. 219, November 1989.
Study prepared by Agrober presents investnmnt models in: (i) pig;
(ii) beef; (iii) amall animals; (iv) sheep; (v) horse;
(vi) agriculture; (vii) fish; (viii) selected food processing
models; (ix) grain storage; (x) forestry; (xi) horticulture; and
(xii) farm mechanization.
B.7  ExDort Oriented Development of Maior Integrat2d Production
Subsectors, p. 141, December 1989. Policy work done by the
Agricultural Economic Research Institute (AKI) which concentrates
on the exportability of major product lines in agriculture and
agroprocessing. It describes the contractual relationships among
the private , small scale farmer and the large scale\farms,
reviews export market contacts of foreign trading companies and
identifies areas for efficiency improvement In the vertical
coordination within product lines. It contains conclusions and a
summary.
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 17
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
Details on the Three Maior Commercial Banks '
I. Budapest Bank
A.    Introduction
1.01        Background.  Budapest Bank (BB), Hungary's third 'Largest commercial
bank, was created on January 1, 1987 by merging the operations of the Budapest
Credit Bank, the State Development Bank an. certain lending departments of the
National Bank of Hungary. It is a joint-stock company whose shareholders are
the Government, enterprises, and institutional investors. At the end of 1988,
the Government held 49.4% of the share capital, with the rest being held by 586
shareholders.
1.02.       Business Activity.  At the end of 1988, the bank had 30 bran-hes
and offices throughout the country. The branch offices have major responsibility
for customer relations, disbursement and repayment of loans, and maintaining
deposit accounts.   Head office staff are responsible for mobilization and
management of resources, planning and budgeting, and credit administration,
personnel and accounting activities.
1.03.       BB has\ over 4,000 clients, including some 400 large or medium size
companies, 2000 cooperatives that are mostly small-scale, and some 1,500 private
firms. Thus far, the client base has proven stable -- in 1988, BB gained a net
344 company and cooperative clients, and over 1,500 private enterprise clients.
Customers include two of Hungary's largest industrial conglomerates -- OKGT
(National Gas and Oil Trust) and MVNT (Hungarian Electricity Board). Although
to \date the bank has operated exclusively as a commercial bank for enterprises,
it has recently begun entering the retail banking and international trade
financiig fields. Thus far, the bank has primarily been involved in lending to
the mining, chemicals, machinery and oil subsectors. Bt has also been involved
in co-financing international business undertakings in Hungary.   Two recent
projects, to produce float glass and polystyrene were recently cofinanced, one
with a foreign bank, and the other with the IFC. BB is the leading institutional
player among the banks in Hungary's securities market, accounting for some 40%
of total transactions. In 1988, the bank won a tender issued by the Ministry
of Finance to conduct the issuing, organization and trading of treasury bills\
on a nationwide level. Reflecting the expansion in the bank's activities, BB's
staff increased 0% in 1988, to over 1,200, and in 1989, grew further to 1,330.
k
1.04.       Involvement in Bank Groun Projects. Since 1987, BB has been involved
in onlepding World Bank funds to the industrial sector under three industrial
restructuring projects, the Technology Development Project, as well as several
projects in the agriculture sector. BB has also served as guarantor in two IFC



52 -
A iNEX 2
Page 2 of 17
projects, and in 1990, is expected to serve as the agency for an IFC line of
credit to finance small and medium-sized projects in the private sector.
B.    Institutional Asgects
(i)   Institutional Strategy
1.05.       BB is currently forming its strategic plan and has drafted a document
outlining its basic objectives, products and markets, strengths and weaknesses,
and development objecti7es in five key strategic areas.  In the meanwhile BB is
taking actions to strengthen its financial position, increase liquidity, improve
the balance sheet, improve its credit portfolio, diversify lts customer base,
lend on a more selective basis, and to strengthen other areas. The Bank carried
out a diagnostic review of BB, which highlights the need for BB to identify its
most critical strategies and focus adequate resources on successfully executing
those strategies, build an analytical justification for new markets and products,
and develop a sound financial plan linked to the strategic plan.
(ii) Organization Structure
1.06.       BB is headed by a chief executive who also serves as Chairman of
the Board of Directors. The 13-member board pf directors represents the major
shareholders of the bank. The Board has sole responsibility for establishing
the business statutes of the bank, and for approving the bank's business rules
and policies. BB also has a 16 member supervisory committee which oversees
management of the bank and polices violations in, the legal provisions and the
charter of the bank.
1.07.       BB's organization structure is being modernized in phase with its
strategic plan. It has established an asset/liability management council, added
new functions, and the six Budapest lending units are being formed into
branch-like units.m  However, there is a need to focus its orientation more
clearly on business results rather than activities; to develop operational
policies and procedures, internal controls and standards; to effectively manage
the branch network; and to correctly size each unit to accomplish its required
results.
(iii) Status of Human Resources
1.08.       BB has wide skill development requirements. Actions have been taken
to build recruiting sources, to hire college graduates and to acquire experts
from NBH. A mediim and long-term training plan, focusing initially on delivering
basic banking training to young graduates and the majority of existing staff over
the next three years, is being developed.  BE is also planning to send people
for training to yhe International Training Center for Bankers, to organize
language training, to send some staff members to foreign banks for training in
special areas, as well as to copduct internal training. BB needs to fully define
skill requirements and prioritize skills shortfalls so that it can build priority
internal training progr\amg, select external programs, and organize on-the-job
training.                    



- 53 -
'ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 17
(iv) Key Banking Functions
1.09.       Credit.  BB is following a selective lending policy, taking active
measures to reduce its proportion of doubtful debts and diversifying its customer
base to reduce the impact of its number of very large customers. A new system
for classifying customers and loans is being implemented and decisions on credit
allocation and follow-up of doubtful debtors are being based on this system.
However, BB still needs to build a comprehensive set of policies and procedures
and to develop effective internal controls.  Further, it needs to sharpen its
credit system with respect to assessing and dealing with credit risk, and
monitoring and following-up on overdue payments and arrears.
1.10.       Treasury.  B's treasury function makes decisions on allocation of
funds, use of excess funds, borrowings, reserves, interest rates, and other
matters. BB is developing procedures, considering establishing a full treasury
groutp, and planning an automated treasury information system. Until this system
is on line, however, an interim system will be necessary. BB also needs to build
treasury skills among managers and technical staff in the liqulidity council and
in the business policy department.
l.ll.\      Planning. budgeting and Derformance measurement.   BB currently
prepares a one-year plan which is the basis for certain actions of functional
units xnd for the plans of the branches. The branch-level plans cover deposits,
loans, securities sales, and improvement of the loan portfolio. Branch managers
can earn significant bonuses based on results.   Profitability is monitored
quarterly. Profitability management systems ate being developed and applied for
the branches and for several major business areas of the Bank.  'BE still peeds
to develop a planning process, and a budgeting process that fits the plaiming
proce;s. The process must establishk performance measures and goals for the bank
overall, as well as individually by'staff and line unit.
1.12.       pranch operations.  BB's branch system has expanded quick-y from 18
br¶nches to 3u. emd a number of 40 branches was targeted by end-il989. Further
expansion is planned, based on market opportunities and budget considerations.
BB has developed a\model for a branch and will start to implement it in Budapest.
1.13.       Automation.   Automation is required for sound bank management,
competitivenes4, and efficiency. The bank has retained outside consultants to
help develop an automation plan which will include general ledger applications,
domestic banking applications, and some international applications.
1.14.       Management information systems (MIS).  A considerable portion of
iKts management information is now provided through the NBH computer system.
However, a new and more comprehensive MIS is needed. The Bank is currently
trying to meet some MIS requirements internally, while other information is
being provided by customers, and some MIS requirements will be met through
'automation.   Management's needs for information have not yet been clearly
defined. Such definition is a necessary pre-requisite to the development of a
MIS.



54-
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 17
1.15.       Internal audit.  BB's 'Auditing Department reports directly to the
Chief Executive and to the Supervisory Committee and checks the books of the
branches at year end. Visits are also made to some branches to check principal
and interest payments. BB needs to build a complete and modern internal audit
function - with skilled auditors to conduct frequent and comprehensive audits
of branches and headquarters units, with sufficient audit tools, and with an
internal environment conducive to effective audits.
C.    Financial Structure and Performance,
1.16.       The following tables provide an overview of the key elements of BB's
financial structure, and of key indicators of financial performance.  (Summary
financial statements and key performance indicators are contained in Appendices
1 and 2).
Budanast Bank
Changes in Financial Position
1987       1988      Z Change
----(Ft. BiLlion)----
Total Assets            84.5        80.9         -4.2
Total Loans             53.5        51.9         -3.0
Total Refinancing       31.3        26.9        -14.0
Total Deposits          35.0        29.S        -Z5.0
Capital                  6.6         8.9        +3o.7
Operating Expenses       0.7         2.6       +263S2
Net Income               1.2         1.1         -4.7
Budanest Bank
Financial Performance Indicators
1987       1988
-(----Percent)----    
Loans/Deposits /        64.1        84.7
Loans/Borrowed Funds    74.7        80.1
Capital/Assets           7.0         9.1
Return on Assets        1.5          1.3
Return on Equity        23.2        14.4
Net Int. Margin/Avg. Assets    2.7   3.9
Op. Costs/Avg. Assets   0.9          3.1
f Loans are adjusted for NBH refinancing.
1.17.       Structure.  The 4% reduction in BB's total assets in 1988 was caused
mainly by a significant fall in the principal sources of funding -- refinancing
through the NBH, and deposits. Refinanced loans amounted to Ft26.9 bilXion, and
were predominantly long term. 1he Ft4 billion fall in refinancing between 1987-
88 was caused by a sharp decrease in short term refinancing credits, reflecting
tightening of credit by the monetary authorities. Enterprise demand deposits
fell 20X in 1988, largely as the result of liquidity problems that followed the
introduction of a profit tax and further reductions in Government subsidies.
V     It should be noted that the financial statements of Hungarian banks have
not been prepared according to ipternationally accepted accounting
principles. Also, until a portfolio audit is completed and new prudential
guidelines\ for loan classification are in place, the correct level of
substandard loans, required provisions, cessation of interest accrual, and
eonsequently, valid earnings, will be not be known.



- 55 -
\                       ~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2Z
Page 5 of 17
1.18.       Liguidity.  BB's liquidity position deteriorated between 1987 and
1988.  Deposits fell faster than loans, leading to a worsening of the loan-
deposit ratio, to 85%. While this is slightly higher than the desirable level
of 70%,  with careful monitoring of the situation and assiduous  deposit
mobilization, BB should be able to improve the situation.
1.19.       CaRital Adeguacy.  BB's capital to assets ratioZJ improved in 1988,
to 9.1%, due primarily to a Ftl.l billion increase in share capital. While this
figure appears to exceed the desirable level of 8%, it should be kept in mind
that capital may be significantly overstated since BE is as yet inadequately
provisioned against doubtful debts, and since loan classification standards for
doubtful debts, as well as policies on interest accrual, are weak and arbitrary.
1.20.       Earnings Performance.  BB's interest income increased by over 401
in 1988. A sharp rise in short-term lending rates, and possibly the accrual of
penalty interest on substandard loans, helped increase the net interest margin.
Also, BB's large volume of short-term lending increased commitment fee income
substantially. The resultant increase in overall income was partially offset
by higher operating expenses, due to the branch expansion program and increases
in staffing. As a result, however, operating expenses jumped from 0.9X to 3.1X
of average assets, and need to be closely monitored.  Also, had BB made adequate
provisions in 1988 -- to reach the level recommended,by the State Banking
Supervision Agency (SBS) -- income would have been substantially reduced.
Despite the increased interest and fee income, net income after tax was about
the same in 1988 as in 1987, due to. the higher operating costs and provisioning.
Return on average capital dropped in 1988, mostly due to the rapid increase of
equity and reserves. Return on average assets also dropped, but marginally.
Both these ratios are acceptable provided the earnings figures on which they are
based are valid.   BB declared dividends of 171 and 12% in 1987 and 1988,
respectively.
1.21.       Loan Portfolio Ouality.  In 1987, when the commercial banks were
created, BB inherited a number of problem loans, the highest among the three
large banks. At end-1987, substandard loans totalled 260% of capital (including
reserves).  By the end of 1988, the situation had improved, and substandard loans
amounted to 130% of capital. The improvement resulted from a fall in substandard
loans, due in part to write-offs, and a 351 increase in capital.
1.22.       The loan portfolio is potentially further weakened because of the
extent of connected lending and concentration of sectors and borrowers. BB's
ten largest borrowers hold 61 of the share capital, and account for 461 of the
outstanding loan portfolio, equivalent to 2651 of the bank's capital.   Poor
performance on the part of these borrowers could therefore have serious
implications for the bank's financial viability.   BB's loans are also heavily
concentrated by sector. The top 5 subsectors in the portfolio account for over
75X of the portfolio, making BB vulnerable to downturns in these areas.  Given
the ongoing economic restructuring in Hungary, there is a need for BB to
diversify its portfolio rapidly to decrease potential instability.
1/ Adjusted to exclude risk reserve.



- 56 -
ANNE4 2
Page 6 of 17
1.23.       Loan_Loss ResVrves.   BB's loan loss reserves, the "risk reserve
fund", amounted to Ftl.4 billior. in 1988, or 2.5X of gross loans. This was an
improvement over 1987, when the risk reserve fund was FtO.7 billion, equivalent
to 1.1 of gross loans. The risk reserve fund amounts to only half the level
prescribed by 1987 SBS regulations, primarily because BB has funded the reserve
only to the limit allowed out of pre-tax profits, and has not supplement the
reserVe from after-tax profits.
1.24.       Financial Viability.  The future financial viability of Budapest
Bank will depend upon a number of issues. First, the true conditic.i of the
loans will be revealed by the forthcoming portfolio audits, both in terms of
ar\earage, and in terms of the financial condition of the debtor enterprises.
This, in turn, will provide an indicator as to whether the level of reserves is
adequate. Second, the annual audit will reveal the extent to which interest is
being accrued beyond prudential limits, casting light on whether the earnings,
-reserves, and capital are real or not.   The new guidelines and prudential
regulations on loan classification and provisioning that the SBS is expected to
put in place shortly, and a potentiAl Government program-to restructure the
portfolios of the three large commercial banks, would enhance BB's financial
viability in the lone run.
11, Commercial and Credit Bank
A.   1Introduction
2.01        Background.  Commercial an4 Credit Bank (CCB) is Hungary's second
largest commercial bank.   It wts created on January 1, 1987 out of the
agricultural and food industry departments of the National Bank of-Hungary. It
is a joint-stock company whose shareholders are the Government and enterprises.
At the end of 1988, the Government held 71% of the share capital, with the rest
being held by 1,308 shareholders. By mid-1989, the Government shareholding had
been reduced to 52X.
2.02        Business Activity,  At the end of 1988, the bank had 58 branches
and offices throughout the country, including the headquarters and two branches
in Budapest.  The branch offices are responsible for appraisal of projects,
di bursement and repayment of loans, administration of deposit accounts, and
branch office-accounting.  CCB's clients include state farms and cooperatives,
industrial and agro- industrial companies, and trading firms. The bank's customer
base grew from 3,880 clients in 1987 to over 5,500 in 1988. The Enumber of small
enterprise clients grew by X,100 to 4,100, and net growth in large corporate
customer accounts was 64.   Although until recently the bank has operated
exclusively as a commercial bank for enterprises, it has now begun entering the
rekail banking field.   Thus  far,  lending ha; been concenlrated  in the
agriculture, commerce, and field/forestry subsectors. Reflecting the increase
in the bank's activities, bank staff grew from 1,837 in 1987 to 2,350 in 1988.
Of these, 430 are located in headquarters, and the rest are in the branch



- 57 -
ANNZX 2
Page 7 of 17
network.  In April 1988, CCB established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Merkantil
Bank, to undertake lease-financing, debt factoring, bond sales, and import
licensing.
2.03        Involvement in Bank Group Projects.   Since 1987, CCB has been
involved in onlending World Bank funds to the industrial sector under three
industrial restructuring projects, and the Technology Development Project, as
well as several projects in the agriculture sector. During 1988, 45Z of all
investment loans made, representing Ft2.5 billion, were for Bank-related
projects.
B.    Institutional Asvects
(i)   Institutional Strategy
2.04        CCB has made a good start in developing its institutional development
strategy. In June 1988, CCB developed a mission statement, identified strengths
and weaknesses, prepared tentative goals and action plans for both strategy and
institutional develapment, and assigned responsibilities for completing each task
within targeted deadlinas. Since then, target markets and services have been
identified, and thie organization, product development, human resources and other
areas have been further developed. The Bank has recently conducted a diagnostic
review of CCB, which highlights the need for CCB to identify its most critical
strategies and focus adequate resources on successfully executing those
strategies, build an analytical justification for new markets and products, and
develop a sound financial projection of the outcomes of the strategic plan.
(ii) Organization Structure
2.05        CCB is headed by a chief executive who also serves as Chairman of
the Board of Directors. The 14-member Board of Directors represents the major
shareholders of the Bank.  ;CB also has a 12-member Svperv'sory Board which
oversees management of the bank. Its day-to-day operations are managed by the
Chairman, assisted by management committees which are composed of the heads of
major departments. The bank underwent a reorganizatic,n in March of this year.
Ies new organization structure establishes important new functions, groups its
head office functions into logical clusters for management purposes, clarifies
the role of each department, and generally follows sound organization principles.
However, there is a need to focus the bank's orientation more clearly on business
results and to effectively manage the branch network.
(iii) Status of Human Resources
2.06        CCB has launched several institutiohal development Xactivities in
the human resources area - in recruiting, staffing, training, performance
appraisal, rewards, and other areas, and its branch rationalization program will
define optimal branch staffing levels. ', CCB needs to fully define skill
requirements for each category of job, assess incumbents against skill
requirements, ide4tify and prioritiz. skill shortfalls, and build the plans and
resources necessary to meet priority \skill shortfalls within the quickest
0    .                                                    l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 17
practical time. This will enable CCB to build internal training programs, select
external programs, and conduct on',the job training.
(iv) Key Banking Functions
2.07        Credit.  CCB is developing its credit system.  It has prepared a
credit manual, outline credit procedures, developed a client-qualification
system, and developed an extensive base of credit officers. The bank is also
foeusing on problem loans and on extending new loans to only the most
creditworthy customers.   CCB needs to further develop its credit system,
focussing on building itternal controls to assess and deal with credit risk and
to classify, monitor and follow up on overdue payments and arrears.  Credit
skills will also need to be developed rapidly to correctly utilize the new
policies and procedures.
2.08        Treasury.  A Liquidity Directorate has been established to manage
the liquidity position, reserves level, borrowings and placing, maturities, and
interest rate risk.  However, as automated treasury informatiton will not be
available for another two years, a manual system must be developed for use in
the interim. Sufficient treasury skills must also be developed among managers
and technical staff in the relevant Directorates.
2.09        Planning. bud eting and vgrformance measurement.   CCB currently
prepares a one-year plan and a one-year budget. There is an overall bank budget.
In addition, each branch has a budget, and numerous indivfdual categories of head
office expenses are budgeted.   Results against budget in the branches are
measured quarterly against several key performance areas.  CCB needs to develop
a suitable planning process at all levels, and a budgeting process that fits the
planning process. It also needs a procsss that establishes performance measures
and goals for the bank overall, as well as for staff and line units.
2.10        Branch onerations.  As part of its branch r4tionalization program,
COB is building model branches which will modernize and standardize work
procedures, forms, organization, and job descriptions, and prepare the branch
for automation. After evaluation by senior management, the pilots will be rolled
out to all branches. CCB still needs to improve on the diffused system of branch
management and achieve a greater degree of standardization.
2.11        Automation.   CCB has retained a data processing (DP) expert,
organized a DP directorate, prepared an aLitomation plan, and moved ahead in
several areas,\ whith include building infrastructural elements of the DP
directorate, implementing a crash program to become operational in foreign
exchange by year-end, and developing internal systems to meet interim needs that
cannot be handled by the NBH system.  Once CCB's strategic plan is finalized,
it needs to review its automation development plan to ensure congruence.
2.12        Management information systems.  CCB is curtently thinking through
its MIS requirements. A considerable part of its information is provided through
the NBH system. However, since many areas are not covered at all, a new MIS is
needed.  Some MIS requirements will be iet internally, and others through the
planned automation program. Management's needs for information have not yet been



-59-
Page 9 of 17
clearly defined. Such definition is a necessary pre-requisite to the development
of a MIS.
2.13,       Internal audit. CCB has established an independent Internal Control
Department reporting directly to the Chairman. The department plans to conduct
general audits of the branches once every two years and annual audits of head
office operational units. Audit compliance is perceived as being good, managers
are receptive and post-audit follow-up is conducted by the audit team to ensure
correction of deficiencies. An audit manual incorporating sound audit policies,
and practical audit procedures is needed. Also, audit skills need to be upgraded
and expanded.
C.    Financial Structure and Performance
2.14        The followLig tables provide an overview of the key elements of
CCB's financial structure, and of key indicators of financial performance.
(Summary financial statements and key performance indicators are contained in
the attachment to this annex).?
Commercial and Credit Bank
Changes An Financial Position
1987        1988      X Chanae
----(Ft. BilUon)-----
Total Assets            160.9        119.8        425.5
Total Loans             122.2        94.1         -23.0
Total Refinauncig        87.5        55.2         -37.0
Total Deposits          45.6         37.6         -17.6
Capital                  12.9        18.2         +41.0
Operating Expenses       0.7          1.3         +88.2
Net Income               1.9          2.0         +17.1
Commercial and Credit Bank
Financial Performance Indicators
1987
----(Percent)----
Loans/Deposits _/        91.0        143.4
Loans/Borrowed Funda     93.2        110.7
Capital/Assets           8.0         14.5
Return on Assets          1.2         1.4
Return on Capital        19.1        12.9
Net Int. Margin/Avg. Assets    2.8    3.9
Op. Costs/Avg. Assets     0.5         0.9
a_/ Loans are adjusted for NBH refinancing.
;
2.15        Structure.   The 25% reduction in CCB's total assets in 19188 was
caused mainly by a significant fall in the principal sources of funding --
It should be noted that the' financial statements of Ilungarian banks hav
not been prepared according to internationally accepted accounting
principles. Also,. until a portfolio audit is completed and new prudential
guidelines for loan classification are in place, the correct level of
substandard loanp, required provisions, cessation of interest accrual, and
consequently, valid earnings, will be not be known.



-60-
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 17
refinancing through the NBH, and deposits. Short term refinancing credits fell
almost Ft3O billion from 1987 levels, reflecting tightening of credit by the
monetary authorities. At the same time, demand and short term deposits from
enterprises fell by over Ftll billion, largely as the result of liquidity
problems that followed the introduction of a profit tax and further reductions
in Government subsidies.
2.16        LiSuiditv.  CCB's liquidity position deteriorated sharply between
1987 and 1988.  Deposits fell faster than loans, leading to a worsening of the
loan-deposit ratio, to 143%. This is much higher than the desirable level of
701 and CCB needs to take immediate steps, including assiduous deposit
mobilizstion, to improve the situation.
2.17        CaRital Adequacy.  CCB's capital to assets ratiof improved sharply
in 1988, to 14.5%, due primarily to a Ft3.0 billion increase in share capital.
While this figure apparently exceeds the desirable level "of 81, it should be kept
in mind that capital may be significantly overstated since CCB is as yet
inadequately provisioned against doubtful debts, and since loan classification
standards for doubtful debts, as well as policies on interest accrual, are weak
and arbitrary.Y
2.18        Earnings Performance.  Despite the reduction in the overall loan
portfolio, CCB's interest income increased some 15% in 1988. A sharp rise in
short-term lending rates, and possibly the accrual of penalty interest on
substandard loans, helped increase the net intetest margin. The increase in
income was partially offset by higher operating expenses due to increases in
staffing. Operating expenses doubled, from 0.5X to 0.91 of averqge assets. As
competition among the banks accelerates, however, expenditures on staffing and
marketing will increase, and would need to be closely monitored. Also, had CCB
made adequate provisions in 1988 -- to reach the level recommended by the State
Banking Supervision Agency (SBS) -- income would have been substantially reduced.
Return on average capital dropped in 1988, mostly due to the rapid increase of
equity and reserves. Return on average assets increased marginally, due mostly
to the reduction in assetsl.  Both these ratios are acceptable, provided the
earnings figures on which they are based are valid. CCB declared dividends of
12% and 131 in 1987 and 1988, respectively.
2.19,       Loan Portfolio Ouality.  In 1987, when the commercial banks were
created, CCB inherited a number of problem loans.  At end-1987, substandard
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Adjusted to exclude risk reserveI fund.
Under the accounting practice followed by CCB, it does not pay taxes or
dividends, nor allocate provisions from gross profits, until the first
quarter of the following year. As a result, the entire figure for gross
profit is shown as retained earnings, which are therefore seriously
overstated, as is net worthi. A rough calculation, adjusting for items to
be expended from gross profits, including taxes, dividends, and other
allocations, yields a capital to assets ratio of 5.5% in 1987 and 10.6X
in 1988.



61 -
ASNNEX ,
Page 11 of 17
loans totalled 150% of capital (including reserves).   By the end of 1988,
substandard loans had increased 21% in absolute terms but, due to the large
increase in capital, the ratio of substandard loans to capital improved to 130X.
2.20        The loan portfolio is potentially further weakened because of the
existence of connected lending, and concentration of sectors and borrowers.
CCB's ten largest borrowers hold 7.5% of the share capital, and account for 28%
of the outstanding loan portfolio,  equivalent to 145X of capital.   Poor
performance on the part of a few borrowers could therefore have serious
implications for the bank's financial viability. CCB's loans are also heavily
concentrated by sector.   Overall,  over 50% of the portfolio  is in the
agricultural sector, and over 40% i'. the industrial sector. The top 5 subsectors
in the portfolio account for over 90% of the portfolio, making CCB vulnerable
to downturns in these areas. Given the ongoing restructuring in the Hungarian
economy, it would be prudent for CCB to diversify its portfolio to desrease
potential instability.
2.21        Loan Loss Reserves.  CCB's loan loss reserves, the "risk reserve
fund", amounted to Ft2.6 billioni in 1988, or 2.8% of gross loans. This was an
improvement over 1987, when the risk reserves were Ftl.O billion, equivalent to
0.9% of gross loans. In 1988, CCB allocated 30% of pre-tax profits to its risk
reserve fund, up from 20% in 1987. The risk reserve fund- amounted in 1988 to
less than half the level prescribed by 1987 SBS regulations, primarily because
CCB has funded the reserve only to the limit allowed out of pre-tax profits, and
has not supplemented the reserve from after-tax profits.
2.22        Financial Viability.  The future financial viability of Commercial
and Credit Bank will depend upon a number of issues. First, the true condition
of the loans will be revealed by the forthcoming portfolio audits, both in terms
of arrearage, and in terms of the financial condition of the debtor enterprises.
This, in turn, will provide an indicator as to whether the level of reserves is
adequate. Second, the annual audit will reveal the extent to which interest is
being accrued beyond prudential limits, casting light on whether the earnings,
reserves,, and capital are real or not.   The new guidelines and prudential
regulations on loan classification and provisioning that the SBS is expected to
put in place shortly, and a potential Government program to restructure the
portfolios of the three large commercial banks, would enhance CCB's financial
viability in the long run.
III. Hungarian Credit Bank
A. Introduction'
3.01        Background.    Hungarian  Credit  Bank  (HCB),  Iungary's  largest
commercial bank, was created on January 1987 from the industrial credit section
of the Nationl Bank of Hungary (NBH).  HCB is a joint-stock company whose
shareholders are the Government of Hungary, lnd Hungarian enterprises and
cooperatives. At the end of 1988, total share capital of the bank was Ft 14.0



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 17
billion with the Hungarian state holding 49.41 and the rest held by some 900
enterprises.P 
3.02        Business activity.  At the end' of 1988, the bank had 54 branches
and directorates, a staff of 3,100 of which 20X were college graduates. It has
over 4,700 clients (borrowers) and held the current accounts of more than 3,000
state enterprises and cooperatives.   The total production value of HCB's
depositors is approximately 50X of GDP and 50 of the exports of Hungary. The
services of the bank ate extetlded to non-account owners as well and in 1988,
the bank provided services to 1,500 of such clients. Although the bank has
operated virtually exclusively as a commercial bank for enterprises, in 1989 it
entered the retail baivking market by offering certificates of deposits to the
general population. HCB has been ptimarily involved in lending for industrial
and infrastructure projects and beginning 1988, special emphasis has been given
to small- and medium-sector of the economy. HCB has given special emphasis to
encouraging foreign capital investment in Hungary. Some examples of such venture
in which HCB has equity holding are: Soviet-Hungarian trading company involved
in trade between the companies in the two countries, as well as in the developing
countries and East-West Real Estate Development Company with the partuership of
Swedish Skanska AB. A pioneer in transforming state enterprises to international
sharehplding companies, in 1988 it bought most of the shares of Tungsram Co.,
and with the assistance of the Austrian Girozentrale A.G., offered and sold 40Z
of the shares in West European stock markets. The main competition to HCB is
currently from the other two major banks, but as it moves into the retail
mobilization business it will have to compete with NSB and PostaBank as well.
3.03        Involvement in Bank GrouR proiects.   Since 1987, HCB has been
involved in on-lending World Bank loans to the industrial and agricultural sector
lines of credit, such as the three industrial restructuring projects, Technology
Development Project, Agroprocessing Modernization, Crop Production Improvements,
I-tdustrial Energy Conservation II, Fine Chemicals and Integrated Livestock.
B. Institutional Aspects
(i) Institutional Strategy
3.04        HCB's strategy is in the early stages of development.  The current
strategic situation focusses on expanding beyond existing products and markets,
growing in size,  and improving profitability.   The bank  is undertaking
considerable growth in its branch system. Starting with 23 regional directorates
and no branches, it now has 25 regional directorates and 27 branches; 20
additional branches  are being added and more  are planned.    Retail  and
international businesses are being built and foreign exchange, securities and
other services are being added.
as
As of end 1988, Bebolna Agriculture Co-operative, was the largest single
shareholder after the Government, with a holding of 7,81 of total share
capital.



63
ANNEK 2
Page 13 of 17
3.05        In terms of a strategy, further development should focus on building
a strategic plan, i.e., HCB's mission, objectives, strategies and action plans
that will distinguish HCB from other financial institutions and guide its
development over the next few years. The plan should discuss target markets,
products and services, identify how HCB will serve these markets, and how HCB
will maintain or achieve competitive advantage. Moreover, to furnish a credible
basis for specific actions, the plan should be analytically based, i.e.,
quantified.
(ii) Organization Structure
3.06        The chief executive is the chairman of 'the 17 member board of
directors, representing the stockholders of the bank.   The board has sole
responsibility for the conduct and monitoring of the ordinary business of the
bank. A 23-member supervisory committee oversees management compliance with
the charter of the bank as well as policies and legal provisions.
3.07        Earlier this year, HCB implemented a new organization structure to
meet its near term needs. This structure is intended to be transitional until
a more permanent structure can be adopted, along bankholding company lines.
This new structure still has some problems.  Further changes are planned in
March 1990. The new organization structure should be oriented toward enhancing
business results, independent internal control functions, and lead to effective
branch management.
(iii) Human Resources
3.08        The Personnel Division and line managers of HCB recognize that the
bank faces a major challenge in building the needed scope and depth of skills
across the bank. Actions have been taken to conduct more effective recruiting,
organize and deliver new training programs, and, 'otherwise, build skill levels.
The bank is moving in the right direction and in further development of its
persoinel skill; it must fully define skill requirements, assess incumbents
against skill requirements, and identify, prioritize and plan how to meet skill
shortfalls.
(iv) Key BankingaFunctions
3.09        Credit.  The credit system is being developed by HCB.  The bank is
following a selective lending policy, taking active measures to reduce its
proportion of doubtful debts, and changing its cutstomex mix to build a stronger
loan portfolio. Several tools and techniques are being designed and implemented
to help improve credit decisions and other actions. For example, a new system
for classifying customers and lo"ns has been designed and implemented. Decisions
on credit allocation and;follow up of doubtful debtors are being made based in
part on this system.  The bank is taking active steps to continue modernizing
and strengthening its credit system.' Arrartgement has been made to purchase a
financial analysis system for credit purposes.  Experts are studying Western
credit systems for potential adoption. The bank intends to move toward the samel
loan appraisal methods and credit risk management system as Western banks.



Page 14 of 17
3.10        Treasury.   The bank's new organization establishes a Liquidity
Department and a Liquidity Committee to conduct basic, treasury functions. The
Liquidity Department is improving its information base and its analy.ical support
for the Committee.   Plans for further development include establishing an
asset/liability management system, an interest rate system, improving short term
planning and adding functions in securities dealing. Special attention should
be given to building treasury skills within the Liquidity Department and the
Liquidity Committee.
3.11        Planning. budgeting and nerformance measurement. The bank currently
prepares an annual business plan each year, and a more general three-year plan.
The annual plan becomes the basis for the annual budget.   Each' regional
directorate prepares a budget. And, there is an aggregate budget for headquarter
units, which focuses on budgeting specific classes of items, such as salaries.
The business plan and budget serve as part of basis for performance requirements
and measurements. Other operational performance measures are monitored regularly
well. The bank is moving towards a system of "profit centers", within which full
income and costs will be allocated to each unit. Further improvements in this
area will be required to develop planning, budgeting and performance measurement
as a basic tool for HCB management.
3.12        Branch operations.   HCB is expanding its branch syptem rapidly.
Starting in 1987 with Z3 regional directorates and no branches, HCB now has 25
regional directorates and 27 branches, with 20 more branches being added.
Further expansion is being considered, based on market opportunities, competitive
factors, and budget considerations. Standards for branch operations need to be
further developed.
3.12        Automation. Automation is clearly needed for sound bank management,
competitiveness, and efficiency. HCB has retained outside consultants to help
develop an automation plan for the bank. Their draft recommendations should be
completed by November 1989. This plan will likely include basic general ledger
applications and customer accounting, plus some business application in lending,
retail and international.  When the Bank's strategic plan ii developed, its
organization structure finalized, and its information requirements identified,
the automation plan will need to be reviewed to fully support and fit with these
demands.   '
3.12        Management information system (MIS).  HCB is currently developing
its management information systems requirements. Development of MIS was recently
assigned to the Economics Department.   A considerable portion of current
management information is provided through the NBH computer system. However,
some important areas are not covered by this system.   In other areas, only
fragmentary information is provided, and some information is redundant. A new
management information system is\therefore needed.  Some priorities have been
identified but considerable further development must be conducted.
3.14        Internal audit.  The Internal Audit Unit is not fully independent;
it is combined with other'functions and probably too small. The department now
conducts a series of focused audits in the regional directorates every 6 to 12
"onths, and regular (full) audits ,every three years.   Audit compliance is



65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 17
considered to be good. In headquartezs, periodic audits are conducted of certain
areas, e.g., accounting, cash box, the business directorates, inventory, other
valuables and internal investments. The department has regulations that provide
some guidelines for conducting audits. Because there is little tradition of bank
auditing in Hungary, further skills development is needed, and audit policies,
procedures, and techniques shoul4 be improved.
C. Financial Structure and Performance
3.15        The following tables provide a view of the key elements of HCB's
financial structure and performance.    (Suilmmary financial statements and key
performance indicators are contained in the attachment to the annex) .71
Rungarian Credit Bank
Change in Financial Position
1987         1988     X Chanae
-----(Ft Billion)-----
Total Assets             210.3       193.7        -7.9
Total Loans              158.4       137.5        -13.2
Total Refinancing       107.2         88.4        -17.5
Total Deposits           66.6         50.3        -24.5
Capital                   16.1        23.9        48.4
Operating Expenses        1.5          1.3        -13.3
Net Income                2.3          2.4         4.3
Bunrarian Credit Bank
v Financial Performance Indicators                             -
1987         198
--(Percent)--
Loans/Deposits 9/       98.4         124.7
Loans/Borrowed Funds     94.7        102.8
Capital/Assets       \   7.7          12.0
Return on Assets          1.2          1.2
Return On Equity         24.1          0.9
Net Interest Margin/
Average Assets          3.2          3.0
Op. Costs/Avg. Assets     0.8          0.6
g/ Loans are adjusted for HBH refinancing.
3.16        Financial structure.  Total assets of HCB declined by 81 in 1988,
and loans by 13X. This reduction can be attributed to the sharp reductions in
NBH refinancing and deposits which are the main sources of funding, accounting
for 461 and 26X of total assets in 1988.  The Ftl8.8 billion decline in NBH
refinancing was the result of the tight monetary policy of the Government,
especially in regards to the availability of short-term refinancing. The deposit
decline appears mainly related to the liquidity problems in the enterprise
V     It should be noted that the financial statements of the Hungarian banks
have not been prepared according to internationally accepted accounting
principles. Also, until a portfolio audit is completed and new prudential
guidelines for loan classification are in place, the correct level of
substandard loans, required provisions, cessation of interest accrual and
consequently, valid earnings, will not be\known.



- 66 -
ANNE 2
Page 1i of 17
sector, partly caused by the introduction of the new profit tax in 1988, as well
as further reductions Government subsidies. As expected, on the assets side,
short-term loans and liquid assets were most affected. Based on preliminary mid-
1989 figures, HCB seems to have improved its funding apd lending activities
significantly.
3.17        Liquidity.   HCB has experienced a sharp deterioration in its
liquidity position.  Deposits declined much more sharply than loans, leading to
the worsening of the loan to deposit ratio1 to 125X in 1948, which is much worse
than the desirable level of 70X. This short fall is being financed from bonds
and in interbank markets and the remaining with capital. The more dependence
on capital is\evident from the worsening of the loans to deposits and borrowed
funds.
3.18        Capital adeauacy.  The capital (net of risk reserves) to assets
ratio improved to 1211 in 1988, which is substantially above the desirable level
of 81.   Although this figure could be overstated due to the lack of a
satisfactory interest accrual policy, lack of write-offs, and doubts about the
quality of the portfolio, and therefore the appropriate level of provisioning,
it shouid be noted that share capital represented a healthy 60X of total capital
due to the offering and sale of Ft5 billion of shares in 1988.
3.19        Earninns nerf_ormance.  Despite the reduction in the loan portfolio
in 1988, interest revenues grew by 15.41. This growth could be explained by
the increase in the short-term lending rates, an possible accrual of interest
on substandard loans which would normally include a penalty rate of 61. The
net interest margin to total average assets declined slightly to 3.01 in 1988,
'which is below the desirable level of 4X. This decrease points to the increasing
costs of funding for HCB. The net interest margin was augmented by the fee
income of 1.81 of average total assets. Reported operating expenses ,eem to be
well below the acceptable levels. This, however, could be understated, since
there was an actual reported reduction from the 1987 levels. Return on average
assets stayed the same at 1.21 in 1988, but because of the fast build-up of
equity the return on average equity dropped to a low level of 9.91-- which
provides a negative return on capital in teal terms.
3.20        Portfolio situation.  Based on the reported figures at the end of
1988, the portfolio situation of H1B had slightly improved from the previous
year was due to 211 reduction in substandard loans (substandard loans amounting
to 9.11 of loans and 531 of total capital). This decrease is due to repayments,
as well as active rescheduling and write-offs. The qu4iity of the HCB loan
portfolio, like the other banks, is adversely affected by the concentration by
sector and borrower, as well as connected lending. In 1988, the loans to top
25 borrowers of HCB accounted for over 2001 of the capital of the bank. These
Total loans (net of NBH refinance)/Total deposits (net of trade).
11    In its published reports, HCB follows the practice of transferring pre-
tax profits to retained earnings. After adjustment fori\taxes and after-
tax deduction the ratio is an approximate 10.51.



ANNEX 2
Page 17 of 17
borrowers at the same time held 11% of the share capital. This represents a very
high concentration of risk for the bank. Also, 48X of the loan portfolio was
concentrated the three sectors, which would make the bank vulnerable to downturns
in these areas,
3.21        Loan loss reserve.  HCB has allocated a sum of Ft 2.8 billion to
risk reserves in 1987 and 1988 (2.02 of loans outstanding). This amounts to
67X of the level prescribed by SBS.
3.22        Financial viability.  The future financial viability of HCB will
depend on a number of issues. First, the true condition of the loans will be
revealed by the forthcoming portfolio audits, both in terms of the quality of
loans and in the financial condition of the debtor enterprises. This, in turn,
will provide an indicator as to whether the level of risk reserves is adequate.
Second, the annual audit will reveal the extent to which interest is being
accrued beyond prudential limits, casting light on whether the reserves are real
or not. The new guidelines and prudential regulations on loan classification
and provisioning that the SBS is expected to put in place shortly, and a
potential government program to restructure the portfolios of the three large
commercial banks, should enhance HCB's financial viability, in the long run.
Lu



-68-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
PROGRAM FOR IMPROVING LOW EFFICIENCY LARGE SCALE FARMS
Income Position of Agricultural Cooperatives
1.          Contrary to the experience of the 1970s when the internal terms of
trade favored agriculture over industry, the 1980s showed a marked
deterioration of the income position of cooperatives. The returns per unit of
operating expenditures on basic agricultural activities declined by 62 percent
from 1981 to 1987. While the returns from supplementary activities were
maintained at a relatively higher level, they too experienced some decline.
At the enterprise level, operating income declined by 12 percent during this
period. The declining profitability of agriculture had a greater negative
impact on the loss making cooperatives as compared to the profitable
cooperatives.1f Overall, the business operation of loss making cooperatives
became a losing proposition while the better cooperatives, despite the
declining profitability of agriculture, managed to double their incomes.
Ironically, because of the system of allocation, a larger proportion of
subsidies was received by the profitable cooperatives.
2.          The quality of land owned and cultivated by the cooperatives had
an influence on the profitability of agricultural production. Sixty five
percent of the chronic loss making cooperatives operated land with a crown
value of less than 19.V While land quality is a factor affecting the
profitability of basic agricultural activities, it becomes less important in
determining the overall enterprise profitability especially for cooperatives
which have been able to overcome limitations in land quality. About 47
percent of the profitable cooperatives have poorer quality land with a crown
value of below 19.  These cooperatives were able todiversify their operations
out of basic agriculture into more profitable activAties and were, in part,
11The returns from basic agricultural activities for loss making
cooperatives not only started out low at the beginning of the decade i 
(Ft.2,.4/Ft.100 of expenditures in 1980/81) but turned negative by 1986/87 (Ft. -
4.7/Fi.100 of expenditures). The returns from supplementary activities of loss
making cooperative also declined during this period (from Ft.6.7 to Ft.3.0).
In contrast, the profitable cooperatives managed to maintain their high returns
from basic agricultural activities (Ft.17.3 in 1980/81 to Ft.16.8 in 1986/86).
The returns from supplementary activities further increased (from Ft.16.3 to
Ft.18.00).
VFor cooperatives operating poorer land with a gold crown value of below
19, it was reported that the returns from basic agricultural activities per
Ft.100 of expenditure declined from an average income of Ft.4.36 in 1980/81 to
a loss of Ft.3.95 in 1986/87. In spite of a subsidy of Ft.8.45, the itcome of
cooperatives with poorer land averaged only about 56 percent of tte income of
cooperatiyes with a gold crown value of above 19.



- 69 -
ANNEX 31
Page 2 of 5
able to vertically integrate their operations forward through processing and
marketing. The share of basic agricultural production relative to total
operating income declined, and production from supplementary activities
increased including a significant growth in food processing. In contrast, the
loss making cooperatives continued their dependence on basic agricultural
activities, their supplementary enterprise production increased only slowly
but profitability declined. The prospects for loss making cooperatives to
improve their financial condition will, to a large degree, depend on the
extent to which they can diversify their operations by changing their product           m
mix and by undertaking profitable non-agricultural services and
manufacturing/processing activities.
3.          In general, cooperatives have shifted the prodiction of labor
intensive commodities to small scale producers who are mostly part-time
farmers. A significant proportion of the latter products were sold to
cooperatives, making up 26 percent of the cooperative sector's sales revenue;
the share of small scale farmers production marketed through cooperatives
shows an increase of 66 percent between 1980-87. The profitable cooperatives
managed to increase the value of goods and services supplied to farmers to a
far greater extent than the less profitable cooperatives. It is becoming
apparent that a factor determining the level of profitability is the extent to
which cooperatives are able to integrate small scale farmers into their,
production systems by providing financing for auxiliary services such as
supply of inputs, farm machinery services, processing and marketing. This in
turn depends on the extent to which land is released by cooperatives and
credit is granted by commercial banks to small scale producers.
4.          The cumulative effect of the deteriorating situation of loss
making cooperatives has led to their inability to replace depreciated assets
and, much less, to generate new investment. There is a widening gap in the
1ivel of fixed assets among the cooperatives. By i989, the profitable
cooperatives' value of fixed assets per unit area was 69 percent higher than
that of the loss making cooperatives.  This situation explains the inability
of the loss making cooperatives to increase productivity and diversify i-ito
more profitable ventures.
5.          Efficiency of production has become a major determinant of the
profitability of cooperative enterprises. Production per unit area of loss
making cooperatives is less, than one-half of total production value of the
profitable cooperatives. The improvement in the quality of manpower is more
evident among the latter. Loss making cooperatives had relatively higher
labor costs, which often exceeded the amount of ther gross income less
subsidies, and higher banking charges and overhead costs. Without subsidies,
the loss making cooperatives could not even recover direct costs.  Enterprise
production grew by 44 percent from 1980 to 1987 in the case of loss making
cooperatives compared to 76 percent for the profitA4le cooperatives.
6.          The social responsibility of coopetatives to keep their active and
retired members and permanent workers employed have contributed to the
perpetuation of the loss making condition of cooperatives. Land not otherwise
well suited to agricultural production could not, be taken out of production



-70 
ANN-EX-3
Page 3 of 5
until recently without considering its effects on unemployment.W  Likewise,
loss making cooperatives continued unprofitable lines of supplementary
activities for the sats - purpose. The high labor component and relatively
large number of pensioners constitute evidence that social considerations havt
affected the viability of cooperative enterprises. Prospects for the
improvement of the financial status of loss making cooperatives depend on the
extent to which they could be relieved of this social burden.
7.          Solutions to turn around the majority of the loss making
pooperatives will require a commitment by Government and the new management of
these cooperatives to match their resources with effective market demand at
high levels1of productivity. In order to accomplish this goal, several
supporting conditions must prevail in their favor:  (a) available incentives
such as ,bonuses and housing for new management teams; (b) debt write down
programs such as those underway in selected counties; (c) formal restructuring
through the legal process of liquidation proceedings; (d) access tolong term
commercial credit through, perhaps, the use of guarantee funds and the right
to mortgage land to the banks; and (e) the right of cooperative members to
change the organizational structure of their cooperative.
Debt Reduction Prograa for Low Efficiency Farms
8.          In January 1987 the Government passed a decision to reduce the
debt burden of large scale farms. Two hundred and thirty-four large scale
farms (18 state farms and 116 cooperatives) were enrolled in the program
scheduled over a three-year period; the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (NEM)
and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) concluded contracts with the applicants
based on the overall indebtedness, whereby the financial benefits were made
subject to'the improvement of profit at the farms. In the first year
¢4ntracts were concluded in the disadvantaged areab or with indebted farms
that were able to show the fastest improvement. In the second year, 1988, low
efgiciency and indebted farms operating under disadvantaged circumstances were
contracted and in 1989 the remair,ing farms were included. During the time
between preparing applications and signing the contracts a liquidation process
was started at four farms (Arlo, Cigand, Recse, Botpalad) and two farms merged
with the neighboring farms, which had also applied for participation.
9.          The purpose of the debt reduction program is :  (1) to increase
efficiehey of the participating firms; (ii) to increase the income generating
ability; and (iii) to restructure their operations.  If the planned profit is 8
produced after three years, the state writes off the liabilities and the
commercial banks part of their loans or swaps these loan balances into
Government grants. In case the conditions of the contract are not fulfilled,
all obligation become due together with their accumulated interest. However,
if there is a financial loss through natural disaster (flood, inland waters,
frost, etc.) and its extent is such that Government assistance is required,
VUntil 1989,. managers of large scale farms were required by the county
councils to'plant field crops on all cultivated land irrespective of its level
of loss to the financial position of the Earm.



-71-
ANE3
Page 4 of 5
the sahnctions are modified according to the particular case.
10.         The Government (MOF and MEM) suspended during the three year
period, the payment of debt servicing in the obligations included in the debt
reduction package. Commercial banks suspended the repayment of existing
investment and working capital loans in the timount and according to the
schedule negotiated, while Government paid the banks 50X of the interests due
of outstanding loans.
11.        Of the 234 farms enrolled in the program, only 53 of them have no
outstanoing loans with commercial banks, but are heavily indebted to state
programs and have shown consistently poor financial performance over the
years. Most of the farms with outstanding loans are clients of the Commercial
and Credit Bank (92) and the Hungarian Credit Bank (71). Table 1 indicates
only those obligations to Government which are included in the debt reduction
program; in addition to these obligations, farms are responsible for the
payment of accrued taxes and special transfers. 'The total amount of
Government and commercial bank debt which would be possible to write off by
the farms if they would all meet the agreed financial targets over the rolling
three year period is estimated at Ft. 3.4 billion or US$66 million. Repayable
loans or equity contribution from Government which add to Ft. 512 million are
from the following schemes: (a) ad hoc transfers due to looses on their
income statements over time; (b) supplements to investments that are in
addition to the investment subsidies; and (c) refundable state equity
contribution to onfarm investments.  Commercial banks would offer to write off        '
Ft. 2.8 billion in outstanding debts of which Government would reimburse them
for Ft. 1.4 billion. In addition, other grants equal to Ft. 485 given to
farms for various purposes would also be forgiven under the program.
j,a 1: O=STANDImG OBLIGATIONS OF FARMS mEoLLED II
DEBT REL-ICTION PPGX
(In thousands of Forints in Currijut Prices)
RWepayable
Nuraber of    Loans or     Cc ercial Bank Loans        Other
Commercial    Large Scale  Equity from  Principal   Paid by   Remaining   Obligations
Bank         Farms    Goverrment  Baduction  Government of Bank Loan   Forgiven
Budapest Bank  18           -        196       203        23
Hungarian Credit
Bank          71          197       425       355       39         6S
CoinnerciaL and
Credit Bank   92          125       760       846       117        66
Without Bank Loan  53                                               358
IOTAL       234          512     ',381     1,404       179        485
Source: MM, Department of Cooperatives
12.        The evaluation of contracts concluded in the first year of the
debt settlement program - in 1987 - is taking place at the beginning of 1990.
According to prelimin#ry data about 65-75X of the farms fulfill the                   U



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
conditipns. About 10 cooperati-res are expected to be failures in terms of the
program and those farms will hav6 to assume all suspended debt and obligations
prior to entering into the program. If their creditors, particularly the
commercial bank so decides, the cooperative would go into liquidation
proceedings. The debt reduction program studied is different from the earlier
similar programs, but cannot be considered a panacea for solving all problems,
its novelty is its enterprise orientation and it appears to be based on mutual
responsibility. It is having a favorable effect at those farms first of all,
where the debts were primarily caused'not by unfavorable characteristics or by
the disadvantaged area, but because they made significaht investments in the
eighties. Thus their investment and working capital loans increased, and
their profit,1due to a reduction of subsidies and the increase of input
prices, significantly decreased.  The debt settlement eliminated this
unfavorable temporary circumstance, especially in those cases where the                   H
management was sufficiently business oriented, well organized and utilized the
assets efficiently.
13.         In the case of chronic loss-making farms, which operate under
unfavorable conditions and their level of management is not always
satisfactory, the debt redAuction is sufficient only to finance the accumulated
losses, but they can use only limited financial resources for restructuring,
and they need such further funds which assist the rehabilitation process.
These farms do not enjoy the trust of commercial banks, even if they transform
into a new economic association. The future of large scale 'farms which have
not succeeded (30X) is uncertain. They would be submitted for liquidation
which may result in: (i) formation of a new organization, mostly specialized
cooperatives; (ii) sale of assets including land in an auction. However, the
liquidation process raises Aeveral issues including (a) land valuation
methods, (b) social and welfare considerations, (c) mortgageability of their,
land, (d) ownership and collateral, (e) access to commercial bank credit, and
"(f) support services.
New Rehabilitation Proartm for Low Efficiency Farms
14.         The Government has reserved Ft. 3.3 billion for the payment of
farm liabilities for the four-year debt reduction (1990-94). The number of
large scale farms concerned is 200-250, of these 15-20 are state farms and the
rest are agricultural cooperatives. These farms include 70-75,000 people and
another 45-50,000 retired people.. They comprise an agricultural area of 700-
800,000 hectares and are related to 500-600 villages. The new application
system is open to any large scale farm which strictly complies with the issued
criteria of the invitation, on the basis of their 1985-1988 balance sheet
data.
15.-        The farms' undertakings will be appraised annually.  In the netr
system the obligations and benefits undertaken are distributed among four
years in equal proportions. If in one year the obligation is not met, the
next year's benefit'will be omitted, anq if in further years the undertaking
is proportionally over-fulfilled, the benefit can be given in proportion to
thatl
.l~ '



Psge I of 3
MXARY
INIIEGRATED ACRICULTURA PROJECT
RELATING PRJECT OBJECTtVES WITH PROJECT CWllEltTS
Covefiue  Po60P lcies     Institutlonal Strenotheninv                                                                    Enterarise snr anoamit
1.  Increase exp  rts         Expwd diret foreign trading    lip-ave preshipent export        leprove the export marketing   lsrve locat transportation      Initiate a five-year trainingi proia
thruh higher qualtity         rights tm  redc obtiptory    financing.                         services. I.e. Inform.tion on    wd storage facilites.         to edcate 200 executlves in mater's
pro*ets ar limpoving          export lieeses for specific                                     prices, qualities, packogIng,                                  Program In US and western Eurpean
wasting and sales.            product grows.                                                   abtering, tronsprtatfon,                                      aniversities and business schools and
storaeg  of existin  agencies                                  amnother 200 executives in 3-4 week
to better service direct                                       training sesslwu abd on
-  _ -                             enterprises.                                                   agricultural. rd food mrketing.
#ake foreign exchange readfly    Facilftate export Insurance to
-valvlable to exportars for     exporters.
-lportirg primry and
intermdiary goots for
reexport.
Liberalize ibports of          Ssbloans from crrciat bwans
corinrclat inputs to the       woutd also be detemoined by
egricultural sector.            the exportable orientation of
the proosed prtdiction.
Nrewte direct foreign
Investment in joint vern,uva
with foreign fire.
It. Efficiency galins         Nnitor the fe domestic          fesipo  cdity exchange          Stremi   the agricultur{a       Reptace deteriorated and       Apt mde   buslnes plwming
through chtwing traditional   prices of agriculturat goods    according to Internationel      crop Insurance system to the   outmed equlipent with high    methods  I.e. strategie mrket
fam  Into modern,             so that they bectxe In tine     stads  mlth delivery            requirments of Wgribwsinesi    techotcgy products from vest   targeting. _nngwnt infotr ftion
egribsiness enterprises       with interrationat prices.      prdouces fnclutifng             enterprwic.                     through comwercal credit.      syptem  modern finucael __agment
standardsed future                                                                          ;-eatices. EtRa wd cash flow
constraints.                                                                                   projectiln  of inted Invetmts.
facititate the transformetfon    Expwd tihe rentty             Provide for a locat censulttnt  Purdse cooputers and            Begin to vertically integrate special
of cooper tives to other        estalished farket Inforemtion   itrustry for busine            am roprlate software for        product tines in order to achieve
corporate forme through        Service to preside timety       plaoning, finencitl n_gment   ipovd  business mnageunt.   economies of scale w.a secialization
modifications in cuments to   price erd quality Information    end accornting.                                                 of products for export.
the cooperative Loaw  the land   to professionals operating In
tam and the trenaformation     merketing chains..
Accelerate the devetopasnI of    Create iusector               Crciel banks would readily   Strengthen non-agriculturat        Sell off loss-asking activities to
the lotd mnrket by              Interprotessional              accept land as collateral for   activitles throush new produt   specialized firm  or individuals.
facilitating saltes n          organitations by product        developnt loans to farcers.   devel%epent Where compatible
purchases.                      groups WAich would set the                                     with agricultural production.
guideaines for an efficient
wholesale or-ket, provide
inforration between Government
and trade and promote generic
products both at homr end
abroad.
i ~ ~  ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       f                 



AW11" 4
Reduce subsidies a-d texea to    Set ontending criterife ior
the sector and make the          cowercial bank loaos to
rI   ning subsidies pftout       agribssiness enterprise4.
neutrat.
Requira .1t farm  to, inctule                                                                                                       Atter the current output six In term
landsn a nationat asset an                                                                                                         of Podto and improv  the ovrerll
ther- beltance sheets and                                                                                                          quality of producto.
ackoe_wnt of its
owortance and for future ld
evatuation.
111. Efficiency Gsins          Facilitate the purchase of       ailk accessible comerciel        Provide irpAt upptlies fran      Provide turds for pirchase of
throu(;h Prtion of Our-   farm lard to mall scale               lines of credit to scmL-scale   camercial sources                 approprlate equipment,
Opertors in Farming           ftr ers through passa   of         farmers.                        cpltemntin  the err#angmnts   aterials srd vehicles.
legislation which mawtes the                                     between large and setl-scole
right of property o rship.                                       ftars.
Create a line of credit for      PYblish 4rutes of thul  faor
private indlviduals to take      setting the base price for
credit for purchase of           agricultural lond.
agricultural land.
Provide credit for contracts
to purchase equipment tl work
land, cultivate end harvest
for priveate farers.
Provide guideltnes for the       Formatize contracts between      Provide infometion services                                       lwrova training courses for smit
transfer of assets of            lage-stale wd smtl-scale        to seit-wcate foroers                                             scate forgers with speciat cournes for
egriculturaI cooperatives to     farming.                         c'mcerning purcae of land                                         tm farnm    d young ien, who
their aars.                                                       and  achinery.                                                    witt work an the frm.
C-eate a revtving fund of
project proceeds within
participating crcialt bans
for linking toam to private
farmers.
Assist etml-scale faming         llaie mavlable export
throwgh farm system ra-erch     serketing services, eptcially
and extermion.                  to small-scale farms producing
high valued produce.
Set antending criteria for      Pr. ome the organization of
caemricel bw* losffto            smIt-scele cooperatives
private farsars.                 services tnctuding purchase of
irpta and marketing of
products.
., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~E                                                                                                                      l



/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Page 3 of I
IV. Turn Loss-Nakiri           Contimea debt rrutlon           Restructw. thosM ceoweratlves   Develtop a    garian business    Prowidlu fws in foreign
tooporatives Into Profitable   progrn of lENIM. end            ahia participate in the debt   plavring consultnt tdastrv.   eachne  to assist
Entpeim                        cosreiat banks                  warte off procroo (nt8n4a) bi                                    cooperatives in restructuring;
developing caiste bainess                                       ofte working capital weitable
ptl. with the preofessonal                                      bosed an their projected cash
assistarne of epactottued                                       flow.
ccrsult  In busirnesa
planning.                                                                                                                       7
Cive new rnnepmp  ter  of       Encourage -rciel banks to   1aoro  the seevices of the                                           Restructure the prodtf dix of the
restructured coeprative or of   loan fresh cash to              l1iqudation proceedings in                                       cooperatives in tiae uit! effective
voperoative uwd  the debt       restructured cooperative With    order to assist cooprative                                      rrket drd e.g. shift from field
write off progrW  persa         GoverrCent gwrantees for pert  and state feasr to                                                erops to pasture and from pture to
inrentives e.g. adequate        or at1 of the toans.            restructure.                                                     torestry.
heuing wnd boms, fn order
to ake ecooperatives
profiteble.
Permit third parties to inoest
4n cooepratives end benefit
from profits or returns from
sates.
Designato agriculturat land Bra
an asset for cooperatives
aAich can be used as
cottaterat for cmerciat bank
leans.
.~~m



ANNEX 5
-76-                                          Page 1 of 3
Integrated Agriculture Export Project
Table 1. Crop Production
Detalled Cost Table
(Ft N)
Base Costs                         Totals Including Contingencies
90/91  91/92 92/93 93/94  94/95  Total       90/91  91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95  Total
l ~~~~~~~~~~...... ......................... ........                        ......................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...............
A. Fqrm Nachinery                 446    891   1062    788    240   3427        506   1075   1357   1063   341   4341
S. Drying,Sorting,Storing          50    101    120    89       27    388        59    129    167    133      43    531
C. Land tqnrevnnt                  31     63      75     55     17   241         37    83    109       88     29   346
D. other                           52    104    124      92     28    400        61    137    180    145      47    570
..... .... .... .... ...... ......    .... ...... ..... ...... .... .....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               579   1159   1381   1025    312   4456        662   1423   1813   1429    460   5788
---uu a----- -uu      a= Sn=z           =    inua       33 C==   C         t=C=  3W =
Total                             579   1159   1381   1025    312   4456        662   1423   1813   1429   460  5788
- Values scaled by 1000000.0 1/19 '1990 15:32
HUNGARY
Integrated Agriculture Export Project
Table 2. Lfvestock Production
Detailed Cost Table
(Ft N)
Base Costs                         Totaels Including Contingencies
90/91  91/92 92/93  93/94 94/9 5  Total      90/91  91/92 92/93  93/94 94/95  Total
..................... ....................   ..........................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Beef                            32      64     76     57     17   246         38    85    112       90     29   353
8. Dairy                           30      59     71     52     16   228         34     76     99      79     26   315
C. Pig                             110   221    263    195      59  850         129    289    379    304      99   1201
D  Poultry                         79    158    188    139      42   606         92    204    266    213      69   843
E. Other                           7n    154    184    137      42    594        90    202    265    213      69    839
...... .....  ....  ......  ......  ......  .....        .....   .... .  . .... . ..... ......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               328    656    782    581    177   2524        384   856   1120    899    293   3551
m       _m    smm   Cm  =m  mm!z              ==C u u m=2= mm se ms =           S m
Total                             328    656    782    581    177   2524        384    856   1120    899    293   3551
- Values scated by 1000000.0  1/1990  15:32                                                                                          .



AD1NEX 5
- 77  -Page 2 ot 3
HUNGARY
Integrated Agriculture Expo.et Project
Table 3. Horticulture
Detailed Cost Table
(Ft M)
Base Costs                          Totals Including Contingencies
ONCss=                3=33=32=33S=3= now                                 COCCuU COMMU=ZZO
90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  Total      90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94 94/95  Total
..........................................    ------------------------------------------................. .. ... ...................................... . ....
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Orchards                        40      79     95     70     21    305         47    106    139    113     37    441
B. Vegetabwes                      42      83     99     74     22    320         49    110    145    117     38    459
C. Wine and Grapes                 44      87    104     77     23    335         51    115    152    122     40    481
D. rthver                          34      67     80     60     18    259         40     89    117     95     31    372
... ... .. ....... . ......... ........... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... . ..........
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                158    317    378    280     85   1219        187   421    554    447    146   1754
----3 3----- ---33=--- --     - 5Y 33 3=3==3=    aY== CZ=CZY Cce=Z CCCCZZ; t==      55=3
Total                              158    317    378    280     85   1219        187   421    554    447    146   1754
333333=3=5535=33333333-=3353 555=s5s=s5 - 5 =3X - 55s=3a =3N=33=3 =-=CCCZZ=3
Values scaled by 1000000.0  1/19/1990  15:32
HUNGARY
Integrated Agriculture Export Project
Table 4. Agroprocessing and Other
Detailed Cost Table
(Ft M)
Base Costs                         Totals Including Contingencies
90/91  91/92  92/93 93/94  94/95  Total       90/91  91/92 92/93  93/94 94/95  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Food Storage                      0      0    130    275     95    500          0      0    174    393    144    711
S. Meat Processing                   0      0    141    298    103    542          0      0    190    431    158    779
C. Grain Processing                  0      0    120    254     88    462          0      0    161    363    133    657
D. Fruit and Vegetables              0      0    120    254     88    462          0      0    159    359    131    650
E. Forestry                         3       5      6      5      1     20          3      6      8      7      2      26
F. Game                             2       4      5      4      1     17         3       6      8      6      2     25
G. Other                             0      0    196    415    143    755          0      0    263    593    217   1074
......  ........ ..... ....... ........  ....... ......  ......... ._........  ......  ......... ......  ........ ................... .
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  5     10    719   1505    520   2758          6     12   964   2152    788   3922
Total                               5      10    719   1505    520   2758          6     12   964   2152    788   3922
- Values scaled by 1000000.0 1/19/1990 15:32



5
- 78 -                            Page 3 of 3
HUNGARY
Integrated Agriculture Export Project
Table 5. Trade Infrastructure
Detailed Cost Table
(Ft N)
Base Costs                   Totals Including Contingenies                    UI
C=  C-:.uuuauZuunnuu                   33 33==:3:2=3n-S3a:s=3   3333 s32=s
90/91 91/92 92V93 93/94 94/95 Total    90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total
.......... ....................................... ......................... ......................................... ..........
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Trade Infrastructure
Wholesale                 20    40    48    35    11  154        23   50    65   51    17  205
Retail                    20    40    48    35    11  154        23   50    65   51    17  205
Warehouses                 8    16   19   14       4    62        9    20    26   21       7   83
Other                      6    11   13   10       3    43        6    14    18   14       5    S7
;z .......... ;i ... ..... ....... .. ....... .....  ...... .... ..... .....  ....... ........ .....
Sub-Total                  54   107   128   95    29   413        62   135   173   137   44   551
... ... ... ;i -----  --.; ....... .....    ..... ..... ... .  . ......  ........ . ....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            54   107   128   95    29  413         62   135   17    137   44   551
*-=   aCC - I S - = C   ----     ----:s    Cw=z  C=r.  --     ----->   am--  -----1   ----=
Total                          54   107   128   95    29   413        62   135   173   137   44  551
_= = = w~~=3=33333=333333333=3==33333S:-t:=#C=_3==                   IS::--3=3==53=3---333=333===33SI
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  1/19/1990  15:32
H:NGARY
Integrated Agriculture Export Project
Table 6. Technical Services, Education, and Training
Detailed Cost Table
(Ft M)
Base Costs                   Totals Including Continger-les
90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total    90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total
...... ......... v...................  ........ .................. .......
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.... ....  .. ..
A. Technical Services          21    43   51    38    12  165          25    56    74   59    19  233
B. Education                   21    43    51    38    12  165        25    56    74   59    19  233
C. Training                    40    80   95    71    22   308        47   105   137   110   36  435
. ... i.. . .... .... .....i ....... ...    ....... ...... ..... ..... ... iz.....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            8    166   198   147   45   638        97   217   284   228    74   902
=0= *-m C==  =*- *-- --            0      -- - -         ----         ==
Total                          83   166   198   147   45   638        97  217  284   228    74  902
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  1/19/1990  15:33



- 79 -
ANiE]X 6
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of bank Loan
Estimated Schedule
Calendar Year                                                            Percentage
and Month-ending                                          Cumulative         of Total
Semester               Fiscal Year        Amount         Amount             (X)
(US Million)
Dec. 31, 1990                  FY91              3.0            3.0               3
June 30, 1991                  FY91              5.1            8.1               8
Dec. 31, 1991                  FY92             10.0           18.1              18
June 30, 1992                  FY92             13.7           31.8              32
Dec. 31, 1992                  FY93             14.0           45.8              46
June 30, 1993                  FY93             15.4           61.2              61
Dec. 31, 1993                  FY94             13.8           75.0              75
June 30, 1994                  FY94             10.0           85.0              85
Dec. 31, 1994                  FY95              7.0           92.0              92
June 30, 1995                  FY95              5.0           97.0              97
Dec. 31, 1995                  FY96              3.0          100.0            100
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



80-
Page 1 of 30
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORTYPROJECT
AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD MARKETING
Terms of Reference
I. BACKGROUND:-
I\ , . E
A large training program in agricultural and food marketing has been
agreed\upon (a) to fill an educational gap toward a market-oriented
economy; and (b) to lay the basis for a self-designed agricultural market
organization by the Subsector Interprofessional Organizations (SIO).
Two types of marketing specialists would be in great dem4nd in the
next decade:
(a) agricultural marketing specialists: traders, sellers and buyers of raw
agricultural commodities (cereals, oilseeds, live animals, fruit and
vegetables, etc.) or first procossed products (flour, animal carcasses
or packed cuts, sugar, protein meal, vegetable oil, etc.); and
(b) food marketing specialists: product managers and merchandisers for the
processing firms.
II. OBJECTIVES:
Over a five-year period of time, the training program would provide
the Hungarian food and agriculture sector with the following specialists:
(a) on the medium term: about 100 (50 in agricultural marketing and 50 in
food marketing) future professors, trainers in charge of executive
programs and senior executives would graduate in agricultural marketing
and business (majoring in marketing) in both North American and West
European Uhiversities; aftd
(b) on the short term: young and experienced executives who would
specialize in marketing related questions. A total of 125 of them would
follow short training sessions abroad (100 in agricultural maFketi\g
and 25 in food marketing). In addition, 5 to 6 foreign specialists
would visit each year Hungary to participate ifi short seminars on
agricultural and food marketing.
III.  TRAINING PROGRNS: 
The project unit would be in charge of the setting and the follow-up
of the training activities. This would include, short seminars to be
organized in Hungary and two types of education and training programs to be
run abroa! !U
V .  .... \~~~~                                            -



- 81 -
Page 2 of 30;
(a) education at a master level in agricultural marketing ('master
programs'): this would be organized for young executives and
undergraduates (about one-year programs) dua to become professors,
trainers and senior executives in Hungary; and
(b) three weeks session\s for executives of large farms, processing
companies or cooperatives, staff and members of the Boards of SIO, etc.
The project unit would advertise about the different programs and make
the proper decisions to facilitate their implementation over the five year
period of time. The project unit would report each yeag about the running
of the training component.
IV.  TRAINING COMPONENT IN AGRICULTURAL MARKETINrG
Master programs in agricultural marketing: each year, about twenty
participants would follow master programs in agricultural marketing, half
of them in North American Universities and half in Western Europe (Bank
would provide tentative list of Universities running such programs). The
training would include attendance to lectures, seminars, and writing of a
thesis. The following topics should be studied:
(a) Agricultural marketing (see details in Appendix 1);
(b) Markets analysis (preferably including an econometric approach);
(c) International economics;
(d) Agricultural and Trade Policies
(e) Futures and options trading;
(f) Agricultural cooperatives management;
(g) Money and banking techniques;
(h) International finance.
Three weeks sessions: each year, two groups of about twenty executives each
would convene respectively in North America and in the European Community
to follow three weeks of intensive training and technical visits of
regional marketing facilities. This wouldcbe prepared by the project unit,
on a contract basis with fore.gn Universities or similar institutions (Bank
will provide a tentative list). The sessions should cover the following
major topics: (a) agricultural marketing techniques; (b) price formation
ind market analysis; (c) impact of agricultural and trade policies on
markets equilibrium; (d) risk mafiagement on futures and option markets; and
(e) visits of commodity exchanges (auction and other wholesale markets,
commodity futures exchanges and,-where possible, electronik markets),
handling fac9llties, trading companies, mar4eting cooperatives, trade



- 82 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 30
associations, procurement departments of processing companies, brokerage
firms. Lectures and visits *would be alternatively run by professors and
local professionals.
Two-ddays seminars would be run in Hungary (one per year), by Hungarian
specialists, unIer the supervision of the project unit, on domestic
agricultural marketing. Three specialists from foreign countries would be
invited each year.
V. TRAINING COMPONENT IN FOOD MARZETING
The training programs in food marketing (see Appendix 2 for tentative           -
list of subjects) would follow a similar format than the one on
agricultural marketing. However, these programs would only be run in
Western Europe: (a) master programs (for 5 young executives or
undergraduates per year over five years); and (b) three weeks sessions (one
per year) for twenty executives over five years). A tentative list of
educational organization would be drafted by the Bank.
In addition, two-days seminars on food marketing would be run in
Hungary, by Hungarian specialists. Three specialists from foreign countries
would be invited each year.
VI. TIMETABLE:
The above-mentioned program would be run on a yearly basis, starting no
later than january 1991.
VII. ESTIMATED COSTS:
The training program in agricultural and food marketirng would have
over the five year period of time, an estimated total cost of US$
equivalent 5.3 million (13.21 in Forints, 86.8% in foreighn currency) broken
down as follow:



83
ANNEX 7
Page.4 of 30
Cost table (US$ 1,000 equivalent)
Domestie         Foreign   Total
* Agricultural marketing:
- Administration of the
program                                        30              -         30
- Master programs (*)                           40             2,100    2,140
- Three-weeks sessions (*)                      200              800    1,000
- Seminar in Hungary (**)                      150              150      300
*Food marFketina:
- Administration of the
program                                        20                -       20
- Master progtams (*)                            10            1,000    1,010
- Three-weeks sessions (*)                      100              400      500
- Seminar in Hungary (**)                                     150      300
Total                                  74600    5.300
**) travel, cost of living, tuition & fes   (**) taavel, cost of living, fees
l~~~~~~~~~~~~E
\                                                        \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 84 -
AEX 7
Page 5 of 30
APPENDIX 1
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING
Tentative Program of Training
A. INTRODUCTION TO AGRICULTURAL MARKETING:
(a) 0hrerview of the interdependence in the food and fiber marketing chain;
(b) The institutions involved in agricultural marketing (private and
publis);
(c) The functions performed in marketing: (i) exchange functions (buying
and selling); (ii) physical functions (storage, handling and
transportation, processing); (iii) 'facilitating' functions
(standardization, financing, marketing intelligence gathering, risk
bearing;
(d) Marketing at the micro-level: operations involved on the standpoint of
the agents in the marketing chain.
B. MARKET ANALYSIS: price formation and the competitive environment.
C. SPACE. TIME AND QUALITY ASPECTS OF MARKETING:
(a) Price formation over space: (i) price relatironships between delivery
places; (ii) optimization of flows of prod;ts between production and
consumption places; (iii) arbitrage between delivery places;
(b) Price formation ;-ver time: (i) price differentials over time for
seasonal, non-seasonal and storable, non-storable commodities; (iii)
arbitrage trading over time;
(c),Price formation over quality: (i) trading by description; (ii) grading
and quality; (iii) problems related to grading; (iv) price
differentials between qualities; (v) minimization of procurement cost
under quality constraints in the food and feed industries;
D. PRICING kNSTITUTIONS:
Mechanisms for discovering agricultural prices; private contracts (direct
or through brokers); auction markets; electronic markets; futures markets;
administrative pricing (interprofessional or public).
E. COMMODITY FUTURES AND OgTIONS MAMRKES (introduction):           -
<a) Fltures markets organization: operators and intermediaries; rules of'
-the exchange; clearing procedures; surveillance of the exchange;



85-                                                 *U
Page 6 of,30
(b) Speculation and hedging;
(c) Option trading.
F. GOVERNENET INTERVENTION IN PRICING AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
(a) Major instruments of agricultural and trade policies: Governments
intervention on- (i) prices; (ii) supply; (iii) farmers' incomes; and
(iv) trade;
(b) The European Community and the US agricultural and trade policies.
G. ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF WHOLESALE TRADING COMPANIES:
Local traders; international trading companies; marketing cooperatives;
marketing Boards.



- 86 -.
Page 7 of 30
APPENDIX 2
FOOD.MARKETING
Tentative Program of TraLning
A. INTRODUCTION TO THEiMARKETING OF DIFFERENTIATID PRODUCTS:
(a) The marketing concept: orientation of the firm activities should be
based on the needs of the customers and not only on the ability to
-design a product;
(b) Market analysis: size of the market; technology available; distribution
circuits; factors affecting consumers' buying decision
(c) Market segmentation: why? how?
(d) Product's differentiation strategies.
B.  CONSUMER'S BEHAVIOR:
(a) The buying process;
(b) Participants in the buying process;
(c) The choice process.
C.  PRODUCT MANAGER'S FUNCTIONS.
D.  INFORMATION ASSEMBLY AND CONTROL OF THJ SALES.
E. MARXETING OPERATIONS:
(a) The marketing-mix: the product, the price, the marketing channel,
the promotion effort;
(b) Pricing tactics;
(c) Wholesale-retail and food service channels;
F.  POLICY ISSUES IN RELATION WITH CONSUMER INTERESTS:
(a) Tie 'anti-trust' laws;                                                             1
(b)-Gavernuental response to consumerIsm': consumer 0righwnr! -the rights '.
to safety, to choose, to'be informed, to be heard;                     -         -
(c) Consequences on processors' decisions.
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l *'   !       )~~~~~~~~~~I



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 \pf 30
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
COMMODITY EXCHANGE DEVELOPMENT
Terms of _eference
I. BACKGROUNI:
Three major Hungarian banks and three trade companies have formed the
Hungarian Agricultural Commodity Exchange, named 'Termenyt6zsde Kft.'
(TTK). Its first task is to concentrate market operations on commodities
such as grains, protein feeds, etc. When operating ln a more liberal
pricing environment, TTK would serve as an exchange for physical delivery
of the products and also as an hedging tool against price fluctuations
(futures market). TTK is run as a non-profit organization, in charge of
organizing the exchange, forwarding markets information and organizing
training coutses for brokers, commission houses and other professionals.
II. OBJECTIVES:
TTK has expressed its needs in terms of technical assistance and
training in the following fields or activities:
(a) inviting foreign experts to use interriational knowledge and expertise
to design the Hungarian Commodity Exchange accordingly with the
international standards;
(b) establishing an independent Clearing House with complete rules and
regulations guarantying actual deliveries and payments, and the
necessary computer software;
(c) getting the most up-to-date telecommunication network to facilitate
market operations in real time; creating all electronic monitoring and
mailing system of the operations oX the exchange;
(d) organizing the delivery procedures in case of physical delivery, and,
generally speaking conceiving the completety standardized futures
contracts;
(e) organizing seminars to train local operators on trading on commodity
markets.
The overall objectives of technical assistance relat;ed to commodity
exchange development, would be (a) to'facilitate the development of the
Commodity Exchange on the basis of the most up-to-date and reliable
technology; and (b) to inform and train Hungarian 'rofessionals- This
component would not take care of equipments in computers and                 -  -- 
telecommunication systems related to the Exchange. However this could be
done un1er already on-going projects.,
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  ,      



-88-
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 30
III. METHODOLOGY:
The following Terms of Reference might be used by the project unit for
several separate contracts for technical assistance of TtK and training.
Bank would suggest tentative list of specialists and potential trainers and
consultants.
Standardized contracts
The consultant would (a) analyze current &rd potential flows of
products in Hungary, (b) suggest terms of standardized contracts which he
would consider the most appropriate fn the Hungarian environment and (c)
provide technical assistance to the Ad-hoc TTK's committee in charge of
this section of the Commodity Exchange by-laws. Among other questions, for
each commodity, the consultant would analyze and suggest to the above-
mentioned committee:
(a) standard quantities to be exchanged in one futures contract;
(b) standard quality of the product to be exchanged and, if possible,
premiums and discounts for other qualities;
(c) months of delivery;
(d) places of delivery and standard price spreads to be paid by seller in
case of delivery in other previously agreed-upon (by rules and
regulations of the Exchange) locations;
(e) optimum delivery procedures and inspection procedures;
(f) conditions for release of buyer's last payment by the Clearing House;
(g) arbitration procedures in case of default.
Exxchange oaerations:       --
,The consultant would revise current by-laws and rules & zregulations of
the Commodity Exchange and prepare draft version of changes to be submitted
to the ad-hoc Committee of the Exchange. These changes would be made
accordingly with current rules and regulations of the North-American and
West-Eurvpean futures markets. Flexibility would be left open to include
otI"r commodities and financial instruments in the same set of regulations.
Similarly, the consultant would keep in mind future extension of the
exchange by using an electronic system in which the Exchinge through a
centrally based computer. The consultant would suggest creation of an
inspection body of Hungarian futures markets at MinisteriAl or Central Bank
i ~l~vel.
'Clearing busm:! 
, Operations should be cleared l1 an independent company with proper
guarantees from the major banks of the country. Clearin& procedures,
deZposits and margin calls wouldi be prepared or, if already dozne  audited by
the consultant. A delivery and 'payment procedures related to -the-finaL.--
clearing of the operations would be reviewed by, the consultant. He would
make any suMgestions to improve efficiency, fairness and reliability of the         a
... .



-89-
ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 30
clearing system. A reporting system would be organized to facilitate
publication of large open positions which may affect fair competition!on
the Exchange. It is suggested that TTK gets in contact with foreign
clearing corporations, to use their expertise in this regard and to
facilitate consultant's work.
Seminars on futrures and options trading:
t
Two to three days training sessions would be organized twice a yqar
about futures and options trading for Hungarian executives in the
agroindustrial and in the banking sectors and for professors. The project
unit would contact TTK to prepare these sessions accordingly with the
effective nee&n of the Commodity Exchange. Consultants involved in the
technical assistance work as well as other foreign specialists would be
iiwited to lecture and moderate workshop sessions. The fundamentals of
futures and options trading would be presented and commission houses
representatives or brokers may present case studies. Technical introduction
and advanced sessions about Exchange, delivery and clearing procedures
would be recommended at least once a year. Bank would give draft list of
specialists from Western Europe and North America who could participate and
lecture in these sessions. Training sessions would cover the following
topics:
(a) Description of the main futures and options markets in the world: a
short historical presentation, the products that are exchanged, the
main locations;
(b) Typical futures markets internal organization; the case of the
Hungarian Commodity Exctange;
(c) The pricing system; standardized futures contracts' terms;
(d) The clearing operations;
(e) Price limits (up and down); initial deposits; margin calls;
(f) How to phrase a sell or a buy order;
(g) Who operates on a futures market;
(h) Basic hedging operations: for producers, users, traders;
(i) Basic speculative operations;
(j) How hedgers and speculators complement each ot1er; the evolution of
open interest during the crop year;
(k) Price relationships between spot and futures for storable products and             |
non storable products;
(1) Option contracts;
(m) Case studies.
IV. TIMETABLE:
The above-mentioned program would be run as soon as possible, starting
no later than january 1991. Technical assistance should start as soon as
possible to be done before june 1992. Training ressions would run on an
yearly basis starting no later than jtanuary -991.



-90-
7
Page 11 of 30
V.  SIArDCSS
Technical assistance would have an estimated total cost of US$
equivalent 400,000 (12.5X in HUF, 87.51 in Foreign currency), over a
maximum of two years period of time. Training would have an estimated total
cost of US$ equivalent 300,000 (33X in HUF, 67X in Foraign currency).
Flexibility between botn budgets would be acceptable.
()~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:



- 91 -
ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 30
SUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXEPQRT PROJECT
MARKET INFORMATION SERVICE
Terms of Reference
1.     Ministry of Agriculture (NEM) operates the recently created Market
Infvrration Service (MIS). MIS first task is to collect, process and publish
prrice information about the fruit and vegetables wholesale markets. In the
process of facilitating the development of a market oriented economy,
information ha3 to be forwarded to professionals operating in the agricultural
marketing chains. One of the tasks of the public administration is to provide
the sub-sectors with so-called 'public' infermation as opposed to private
inftrmatiot. This development process is of utmost importance for the success
of the on-going project. As a result, MIS would be strengthened to efficiently
cover all the major wholesale markets at the sub-sector level: cereals,
forage, livestock, small animals, etc.
2.    MEM would agref  upon strengthening MIS as follow:
* 1990 to mid-1991:
(a) increase staff up to 20 persons, not including the necessary
support staff with the following objectives:
(i)  by the end of the calendar year, complete coverage of
vegetables, fruits, grapes and potatoes, and another crop to
be chosen;                                                             ;
(ii) training of the newly hired personnel for coverage of future
wholesale markets;
(b) orzanize executive training sessions with similar organization in
Western Europe;
(c) improve computer. modem and telecommunication eguipments of MIS as
needed in the central unit and in the regional locations; MEM would
make necessary estimations of the costs and timetable to install
complete network, ending no latter than december 1990; MEM would
start the necessary equipment purchases accordingly with the new
services to be provided by MIS;
(d) organize wholesale 2rice guilications in relation with the rnational
and regional media; newspapers, professional magazines and the
recently created videotext system;
\   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



- 92 -
iANNEX. 7
Page 13 of 30
* mid-1991 to mid-1992:
(a) expand coverage of wholesale prices to the following svb-sectors:
wheat and feed grains, oilseeds and other industrial czlops (in the
sugar and textile areas);
(b) hire and train personnel as needed for price coverage expansion and
relations with national media;
(c) install the necessary computer. modem and telecommunication
eguAiments as programmed in the above-mentioned timetable;
(d) start including publication of\wholesale prices observed on major
international referenre markets;
* mid-1992 to mid-1993:
(a) increase and train staff (at headquarter and in the regions) to be
in charge of coverage of the animal products wholesale markets
(milk, butter, cheese, eggs, poultry, live animals, first processed
*prod\cts such as beef and pig carcasses);
(b) compiete the necessary eguipments as programmed; and
by mid-1294:
Full coverage of all crops and animal productions prices at the
wholesale level would be completed.
3.     Estimattd costs over a four year period of time would be US$ 1
million (salaries not included), including:
(a) computers, local area networks, printers, software:
US$ 609,000 (95X in foreign currency, 5% in HUF);
(b) training and short visits in similar institutions of West European
countries: US$ 400,000 (100 in foreign currency).



- 93 & 
ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 30
[NTEGRATED AGRICLTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
SUBSECTOR INTERPROFESSIONAL MARKETING ORGANIZATIONS
Terms of Reference
1.     Ministry of Trade (MT) recognizes that agricultural markets at the
wholesale level would be designed by Subsector Interprofessional Organizations
(SIO). SIO decisions would be approved and enforced by Government. Therefore,
MT would facilitate creation of two to three SIO per year. Over project's life
this pace would permit to cover the entire agricultural sector. No later than
April 1991, MT would (i) give legal status to SIO, (ii) summon representatives
of the professionals involved in the concerned subsectoral marketing chain to
their first constituting meeting, and (iii) suggest agenda and recommend first
list of measures to improve performances in marketing chains.
2.     SIO object$ves: SIO would be the main place (a) for dialogue between
professionals and (b) for action to increase efficiency in tho exchange of
products process, exchange of markets information and exchange of risks
related to price fluctuations. SIO would also be a place for dialogue between
professionals and Government. SIO would facilitate promotion of new outlets
domestically and abroad for Hungarian agricultural products. SIO would
participate in research and developmernt programs in relation with private and
public research institutes. Therefore, SIO would design their own permanent
administration and their budget accordingly with their objectives. SIO would
cover entire agricultural subsectors such as fruit and vegetables or cereals.
Sub-committees would be created as needed within one SIO to take care of
questions related to a specific product: e.g. cucumbers or apples.
3.     Members of SIO would be the followings: (a) representatives of
federations or unions of each types of marketing professiotvals from farmers to
processors and distributors involved in a specific marketing chain; and (b) a
representative of the Government.
4.     First agenda. At their first constituting meetings SIO would:
(a) finalize their own b4-laws and organization;
(b) elect their Board of Administrators and President;
(c) elaborate their plan for action to create and/or improve wholesale
marketing of products in the specific marketing chaii that each SId\is
taking care of. Among others, this would include the followings:
(i) creation of a national network of physical points of deiivery of
products;
(ii)   definition of efficient Eontracting and physical exchange
procedures accordingly with the constraints related to the products



-94 -
ANNEX Z
Page 15 of 30
(local traditional markets or fairs, auctions, electronic exchange,
brokers, etc.);
(iii) standardization of products accordingly, when applicable, with
international piacticqs;
(iv)   standardization of contracts for physical exchange of products;
(v)    creation of an independent corps of inspectors at delivery
points;
(vi)   creation of an independent court of first instance arbitratorsin
case of dispute over delivery or payment; and
(vii)  investments needed to improve wholesale marketing of,products in
the marketing chain and to reduce losses in the marketing process from
farmers to consumers;
(d) decide upon their budget. This would include making decision on the
origin of their resources: voluntary levy o,n products exchanged and
other revenues; and
(e) hire their permanent staff.
'5.    lechnical assistance and trainbn  would be provided to SI0 by foreign
specialists in order to elaborate on the above-mentioned first agenda. Costs
of technical assistance in the first two years of the project would be of An
equivalent of US$ 600,000 (90 X foreign exchangeoand 10 X HUP) for each SIO
being created. If we assume a0out six SI0 can be istablished in the first year
of project implementation, thain total estimated costs would be the equivalent
of US$3.6 million, of which US$3.2 million would be foreign exchange and
US$400,000 in forints. MT would prepare final TOR for consultants in
agreement with SI0 and hire konsultants.



- 95 -
Page 16 of 30
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE SYSTE
Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
With the rhasing out of State guarantees for loans ootained from the
banking system, commercial banks are made to assume the full risk in
agricultural lending. Whereas previously state farms and agricultural
cooperatives were a1le to obtain loans to finance previous years' deficits,
commercial banks are now completely on their own in assuming the risk of
loan delinquency. The situation has brought to fore the need for
instruments to manage the risk associated with agriculture.  Ote of these
instruments in managing risks related to natural catastrophe is
agricultural insurance.
There are two insurance companies offering agricultural insurance.
Both are government owned general insurance companies of which agricultural
insuranco is only one of many types of insurance offered. Allami Biztosito
or the State Insurance Company is the bigger of the two. It has about 75Z
of the agricultural insurance market Oith a premium income of Ft 3,600
million in 1988. Hungaria Biztosito or the Hungarian Insurance Company is
the smaller of the two companies serving about 251 of the ziarket with a
premium income of Ft 748 million in 1988.
These companies serve primarily agricultural enterprises and to a
limited extent individual farmers. Two years ago, multi-risk coverage was
discoiitinued and single risk coverage is now available. Insurance is
offered primarily for hail, frost and flood to large scale farms and only
for hail to private farmers. Damage due to drought is covered under a
special arrangement with the government.
These companies enjoy a subsidy from the government equal to Ft 500
million yearly to partially cover losses for frost and flood damage but
this will be withdrawn by the end of next year. These insurance companies
will now have to develop their agricultural operation on a commercial
footing if they are to continue their agricultural insurance business.
Allami Biztosito intends to spin off its a~ricultural insurance bustness
and organized a specialized agricultural insurance conpaany.
The operations of these cbmpanies are not yet fully computerized.
Allami Biztosito in only partially computerized with half of their
transactions done manually. Hungaria Biztosito is unable to determine
their total sum insured in agriculture due to limitations in computer
hardware.
\                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V 



- 96 -
iANN    7
Page 17 of 30
The loss rate from hail, flood and frost seems to be at a manageable
level although the system of computation of the premium rate does not
factor in a profit. While the loss ratio (claims vs. premium income) does
not fluctuate very greatly year by year, the average over the years has
been a little more that lOOX.  These companies would have to revise their
actuarial calculations if they are to become commercial.  This is an area
where they have a limited capacity to do so.
II.  QBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY
The major objective of the study is to assess the present stage of
development of the agricultural insurance system, identify problems,
recommend solutions and propose a long range strategy to develop the system
on a commercial basis.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
On the technical aspects of agricultural insurance, the following
activities would be carried out:
(a)\ Assess the type 'of coverage offered and the procedures in underwriting,
supervision and loss adjustwent.  Determine adequacy, identify problems and
recommend solutions.
(b) Determine experience in loss rate and relate to premium levels.
(c) Identify the need for adjustment in actuarial calculations.
On the organizational aspects, the following activities would be
carried out:
(a) Deterrine actuarial capability and identify the need for additional
manpower and training.
(b) Determine the organizational capability for loss adjustment considering
the need to expand coverage of private farmets.
(c) Identify the extent of computerization and determine ad4ition&l
requirements.
(d) Examine the advisability of establishing a specialized agricultural
insurance organization.
(e) Examine the feasibility c'f the cooperative system establishing a
cooperative insurance organization.
(f) Identify the need forkforeign expertise.
On the linkage witlh the agricultural credit system:



-97-
Page 18 of 30
(a) Examine tjlinkage between the agricultural insurance companies and
lending institutions, ideritify problems and recommend solutions.
On the financial aspect of agricultural insurance:
(a) Determine the need for a calamity fund to be established by government
to cover risk which would not normally be covered by commercial insurasnce.
(b) Determine the financial requirements of a 5-year program of developing
the agricultural insurance system.
On the legal aspect:
(a) Determine legislative proposals needed to strengthen the agricultural
insurance system.
IV. OUMAIFICATLA OF CONSULTANT
The Consultant should have:
(a) An acceptable academic qualification.-
(b) Received formal training in agricultural insurance.
(c) Should have at least 10 years experience working with an insurance and
a reinsurance company.
V. DUAT*N OF WORK AND FINANCING
The study would be completed within a period of 90 days and total estimated
cost would be US$50,000 in foreign exchange (Ft. 200,000 in local currency)
for consultant services.
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'           :                                         \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 98 -
Page 19 of 30
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
TRAINING FARM MANAGERS IN BUSINESS PLANNING AND MARKETING
Terms of Reference
I.  BAKRQp  
At this stage of development of Hungarian agricultural enterprise, the
agribusiness approach to large scale farming (state-owned, and cooperative
farms) has not developed.  However, conditions of cnange are now pressiring
managers to be more responsible for their farms' operations and results.
Managers are being faced with two trends: (a) restructuring their product
mix according to its impact on profii&ability and market possibilities; and
(b) transLerring somRe of their assets to private small scale farmers
organized in groups or as individuals under a variety of ccontactual
arrangements.  Both trends require managers to use business.planning
techniques, including (a) analysis of the farm's present situation; and.
(b) strategic aims of the farm regarding its markets, products, management
and financing methods.
\ . II. OBJECTIVES
The Ministry of Agriculture and its training institutes with
assistance from a foreign ianagement Institute (to be selected) would
organize training courses for farm managers and trainers, who are qualified
for post graduate training. The selected farm managers can also be part-
time trainers and can take pakrt in manager's courses as well as training of
trainers' courses. The main bbjectives of the training are to:
(a) modernize management of the large scale farming sector; (b) make
agriculture more efficient through changing traditional large scale farming
into agribusiness enterprises; (c) impleant bustness planning and organize
the various bnrsiness units within the large scale farms; and (d) intensify
the communication and responsiveness of farmers and agroprocessing
ente'prises to domestip and international market signals.
Ill. METHOD.
'Elaborate a package of training and suppbrt, activities, extending over
the disbursement period of the project in the field of business planning,
agribusiniess and farm management.  As a first step towarda the realization
of this program, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Management and
'Training Institute of the Agricultural University of Godollo (GATE-VTI)
would organize a six week special training course for 20 senioi farm
managers and trainers in Hungary and, abroad. The program would cover the
-  following major topics:  (s) strategic farm planning; (b) u(arketing;
(c) economics/finance; (d) human resources developmentW and (e) training
methods for improved management. Candidates are expected to be strongly
\                .                           .             MV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 99 -
'ANX 7
Page 20 of 30
mo4ivated to improve the efficiency of their work and to be interested in
the impaet of their training service in the promotion of market based farm
management.
IV. TIMETABLE
The six week training course would be organized in three sessions:
(a) first in Hungary, two week preparation period (introduction of major
topics) with the participation of foreign lecturers; (b) second session
abroad, one or two months later, a four week course, organized by a                     I
competent management institute; and (c) third session, two months later in
Hungary, elaboration of training curricula and starting on a large scale to
organize courses for different managerial levels, according.to the training
need analysis.
; ~V. FINANCING
The orga'ization would be conducted under the sponsorship of the
Ministry of Agriculture and financing would be provided by grant funds to
be supplemented by local resources.
,~        .-.Forint
First session                                           10,000       150,000
Second session                                         40,000        100,000
Third session                                            5,000       300,000
Training materials                                      25.000       45d.000
(books, software, hardware)
TOTAL   ,                                     130.000'    L.00000



- 100 -
Page 21 of 30
?NTEGRAlED AGRICLURA, OEXPRT ROECT
LOCAL CONSLTANTINDUSTRY FOR _USINESS PLANNING
Terms of Reference
;   . BACKGROUND     i
In general, consultant services in Hungary are not'well developed; and
consultant services in business planning, financial management and
accournting are only recently being organized. State education and training
programs have recently started to pay some attention to business planning
in the curriculum, but  he enterprises concerned do not release a
sufficient number of exp rienced staff to participate in the courses.  The
sporadic use of foreign consultants has proven to be too expensive in terms
of foreign exchange and are not always responsive to the peculiarities and
special constraints faced by Hungarian firms. Within tie spirit of the
market based ecothomic policy and libdralization of foreign trade, firms are
expected to increase the demand for this kind of services.. In order to
stimulate local companies or individuals to organize business planning
consultancies, proceeds of the proposed Integrated Agricultural Export loan
would be made available to qualified individuals and fir\s to develop their
activitieb.  A seminar would be held to promote the progiam and a flexible
training package woul\d be made available to prospective enterprises.
TTI. OBEECTIVES,. 
Commercial banks are extending the requirement of their enterprise
clients to prepare business plans as part of their subloan applications.
In order to assist their clients in formulating business plan, commercial
banks should be able to refer them to rep-,table consultant firms. A
business plan should contain the following (a),the market segment to be
targeted by the ente\rprise; (b) improvement in production and inventory-
control; and (c) decision-making based on transparent financial management.
The project would promote and finance the development of the domestic
consultant 'industry in bu*iness planning, financial management and
accounting.
The proposed seminar and training package would aim at increasing the
knowledge of the interested entrepreneurs. The main objeetives of this
initiative are to-  (a) provide up-to-datt knowledge and techniques for
preparing businesi plans; (b) acquire information aboui the practice and
proceduree of the consultancy industry in westorn companies; (c) make
available information on computer hardware and software useful in
consultant services; (d) provide-good offices for negotiations between
foreign partners and Hungarians with the purpose of forming joint ienture
consultancy companies; and (e) promote study trips abroad.
*~~~~~ .7 'N            I 



101
ANNEX 7
Page 22 of 30
Seminar:  Would be held in Hungary, with the participation of 30-40
Hungarian and foreign companies. This seminar would help promote the flow
of consulting know-how from foreign companies to Hungarian entrepreteurs
and the establishment of joint ventures.
The two-day seminar would give an opportunity for local and foreign
firms to rneet and review the administrative and legal regulations that
would facilitate the cooperation.  The foreign participants wokild largely
come from tJestern Europe, North America and Japan.
Training: Organizing individually 1 to 4 week training courses at foreign
consulting companies for English, German and French speaking participants,
who have little experience and practice in the modern techniques of
business planning.  Training would focus on the practical methods of
company diagnosip and preparation of action,oriented reports and business
plans.
After the training experience, Hungarian participants would be
required to prepare a "pilot business plan" at a Hungarian firm jointly
-ith tUr.  assistance of the selected foreign consultant.
During the training period, Hungarian counterpart tasks are to:
(a) assist in the selection of companies and scheduling of the field work;
(b) prepare a draft pension plan as a basis for discussion between foreign
consultant enterprise managers; and (g)_farilitate visits tn eompanies by
waking appointments, prepare the trips, providing language support and
obtaining information.
Foreign counterpart (consultant) tasks are to: (a) visit the selected
company (interylew management, obtain relevant information regarding
history and future plans, inspect facilities); (b) make an analysis of
management's weak and strong points; (c) suggest appropriate areas for
improvement; and (d) stmmarize the information, observations and suggested
improvements in a draft business plan.
IV.  TIMETABLE
The business planning seminar would be organized by MEM, commercial
btnks and the Chamber of Commerce and woull require 2 to 3 months of
preparation (selection, invitation, btc.) after a wide-spread canvassing of
individuals and enterprises.  The suggested time for the seminar is the
second half of 1990. The training-program component can be organized
separately in a flexible way according to the interest of local companies
and individuals over the disbursement period of the project. The total
time estimated on the basis of an averag& 2 weeks abroad and an average 2
weeks in Hungary, is at least 100 weeks, and 200 weeks at the most.
x~~~~
=~ \                                



- 102 -
Page 23 of 30
V... FINANCINg
\,The local consultant industrj development project would be conducted
under the sponsorship of a fAnt committee of the representatives of the
Ministry of Agritulture and Food (HEM) and the coumr.rcial banks, Financing
w-ould be provided by an international grant fund and complemented by local
resourcee.
Seminar                                               41,900     150,000
Hungarian consultant abroad                           50,000  1,000,000
Foreign consultant in Hungary                        100.000    750.000
TOTAL                                                ,9Q 000 lQJ,Q0.0O0
\           \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.k             .                                                      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



-103-
Page 24 of 30
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EPOR PROJECT
TRAINING OF PRIVATE FARMERS
Terms of Reference
I.  BACKGRONI)
As an integral part of the production-processing marketing chain,
private, small scale farmers, who currently account for about one-half of
value added in agriculture, wil_ be given an opportunity to have greater
access to land, supporting services and commercial financing for long term
development of their agricultural attftudes than what they currently have.
The four major agricultural universities and fifteen secondary agric,ituril
schools'will develop family size demoxatration farms, which will bo used aa
centers for training private, small scale farmers directlysab well .s for
oafering special training for those managers of large scale farms who are
in charge of the integration of the small scale farmers. The trainers and
managers need to get more business orientation, knowledgeable and
experienzed in order to be able to train the small scale farmers directly.
II.  OBJECTIVES
The Hungarian Ministry of Agriculture tMEM), with the assistance of a
foreign agricultural school would organize training courses for 30 teachers
from Hungarian secondary agricultural schools. The three groups, with 1O 
participants each, would have four-week programs organized abroad, in the
following fields:  (a) livestock farming; (b) crop production and farm
mechanization; and (c) horticulture and food technology.
The main objectives of the training are to:.
(a) Provide relevant knowledge and experience in order to be able to
organize different types of training courses for smvll scale ,farmers
and the large scale farm managers dealing with small scale farmors as
an integrator.
(b) Provide information about this role of the manager as\decision-maker and
the up-to-date small scale, 4amily size agricultural techniques,and
innovati on.
(c) Learn practical teaching methods and imnage demonstration farms.
(dt Introduce farm management tools to small scale farmers and prepare a
simple farm plan and budget.
.~ ~                                       \



- 104 -
'           E~~~NNEX 7
Page 25 of 30
The training programs would be organized by relevant schools of the
donor country.  The candidates are expected to have a strong involvement in
training and a commitment to participate in agriculture development and
extension. The learning method will be based on "learning by doing" and
combined with field visits at different demonstration farms of the school.
The training course would deal with the following themes: (a) basic
trainer skills; (b) learning and teaching methods; and (c) preparation,
management and evaluation of training programs for undergraduates and
postgraduates.
IV. RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION IN HUNGARY
Education and training departmen of the Ministry of Agriculture (MEM)
and directors of 15 secondary agricultural schools.
V. TINETABLK
One month is needed to select and prepare the Hungarian participants.
Three groups of candidates should be trained in 1990.
-VI.  FINANCING
Financing would be provided by grant funds for development and
complemented with Hungarian resources of the interested secondary scbools.
1                   3ouD  00    Fori0t
1                 35,000      200,000
2                 35,000      200,000
3                 35-000      290.000
TOTAL             105.00Q      600.000



- 105 -
ANNEX 7
Page 26 of 30
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
EXTENEION SERVIICE FOR PRIVATE FARMERS
7erms of Reference
I. BACKGROUN
As an integral part of the production-processing marketing chain,
Hungarian private small scale farmers are being given an opportunity to
have greater access to land, approiriate technology, supporting services
and commercial financing for long term development of their agrtculture.
To accelerate this process, a team of Dutch technicians financed by the
Netherlands grant funds visited Hungary in December 1989 and are preparing
a preliminary report and, in effect, draft forms of reference for a survey
on the type of extension service which would be most appropriate for
private, small scale farmers.
II. OBJECTIVEl
The Hungarian Ministry of Agriculture with the assistance of 'the Rural
Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries of the
Netherlands is preparing a "knowledge network survey" in Hungary to assess
the actual information linkages between private, small scale farmers,
agri.ultural research and the relevant institutions. The study team is
investigating the possibilities for the establishment of a rural extension
network.                                                                               a
T'e -principal beneficiaries of the extension services atre
(a) independent private, small scale farmers integrated within a large
scale farm; (b) small scale farmers; and (c) new farTers" associations.
III. NTO
klaboration and implementation of different kinds of project
components is to be carried out over a two-year period \;d focused on:
(a) organizing study trips: (i) pilot farmers; (ii) research-extension
linkages; and (iii) adult edunation;
(b) organizing courses (i) in making agricultural videos; (ii) develop the
curriculum for a training course in extension; (iii) training for small
scale farmers and their organiz dions; and (iv) women working in
agriculture; and                                            -
(c)  participating in international courses on t\ural extension:
(i) training for trainers; and (ii) managerial function in extension.



k         - 106-
ANNEX 7
Page 27 of 30
The training activities will be undertaken even while the survey on
theltype of extension service is ongoing in order to have a group of
individuals tnowledgeable about extension priorities and procedures of the
decision is taken to go ahead with a program, which is expected to require
5 to 10 years in establishing it.  Various methods of training and visits
will be used during the courses such as written lecture notes, workshop
manuals (the latest themes and up-to-date material will be provided to the
participants).
Three or four family size pilot farms would be projected 's
demonstration plots to test ideas on the organization of an extension
program. Finally, a national debate would be organized on the basis of the
consultant study in order to permit the various interest groups to
contribute to the final design of an extension system.
IV. RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION IN HUNGARY
Under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture (HEM), the
Managemvnt and Training Institute of the Agricultural University of Godollo
(GATE-VTI) would coordinate the work program among the interested
institutions, provide information, and wouldlorganize the training
programs.
'J. TIMETABLE
To be completed by June 31, 1990
- Presentation of the preliminary study of the Dutch Ministry of
Agriculture
= Pilot farmers study trip (1 week)
- Adult education and training study trop (4 weeks)
- Research-extension study trip (1 week)
- Agricultural extension - video course (2 weeks)
- Develop training curricula (1 week)
- Training for trainers (5 weeks)
- Training for extension managers (5 weeks)
X2 be completed by December 31. 1990
- Training for small farmers' leaders (1 week)
- Training for women working in agriculture (1 week)
V. FINANCING'
The financin$ would be provided by grant funds and complemented with
Hungarian resources.
\ \ \



107 -
Page 28 of 30
USS       EQFint
Training (abroad) 30 weeks                           120,000    1,000,000
Study trips (abroad) 150 weeks                       120,000    3,000,000
Training (in Hungary) 10 weeks                        20.000      2Q0.000
TOTAL                                            260.000    42.2Q.0000
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-108-
'                  ~~~~ANNE 7
Page 29 of 30
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK ADVISORY SERVICES
Terms of Reference
I.  BARGOUD          
Following the decision in 1988 on the reorganization of technical
services for livestock development, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
founded six Animal Breeding Enterprises in order to separate the livestock
services from the state authority tasks 4nd to decrease the Government
budget of the Ministry in this field. Actually, these enterprises are
functioning as state owned companies with company council management, which
elects tht director for five years. Their activities are the folloving:
(a) official register of herd-book; (b) performance testing; (c) breeding
stock; (d) intervention, purchasing of breeding animals and useful animals
(for fattening); (e) animal husbandry (sire); and (f) sperm production and
artificial insemination.
Several problems have occurred with the present orgaAization, among
them are: (a) the breed organization; (b) the metbhds of improving
animals' performances; (c) difference in form of ownership, size of company
and their activities; (d) relUtiosonlhlp among them and with the ministry of
Agriculture (MEM); (e) profitability viaries greatly, e.g. sperm production
and trade. are very profitable as opposed to other activities, especially
the tasks delegated by the Ministry to the Animal Breeding Enterprises;
(f) inconsistent measures for animal performance testing.
II.  OBJECTIVES
The Kinistry of Agriculture and Food with the assistance of two
foreign consultants is undertaking a survey of the technical services for
livestock development to improve the efficiency of the livestock. The
survey aims to define the new role and tasks of the Ministry and overall
livestock policy. The main objectives of the survey are to: (a) identify
the weak and strong points of the actual system; (b) identiEy the role of
the new Animal Breeding Associations and recentiy founded Chamber of
Agriculture in the livestock services; (c) comment on the actual system and
suggest solutions based on the French, Austrian and Dutch experiences. The
principal beneficiaries of the survey are: (a) large and small scale farms
through better and less cottly services; (b) livestock service companies
through more efficient services; and (c) involve fArmers and their
associations, which are interested in expanding and diversifying their
activities.



-109-
Page 30 of 30
III. METHODOLOGY
The survey would be prepared over a two-month period and would focus
on: (a) interviews with relevant representatives of the Ministry of
Agriculture; (b) interviews with large scale farms' leaders, independent
small scale farmers and breeding associations, with a 'view to determine
their service needs to restructure and modernize themselves and to make the
sectot more competitive; (c) review of regulations and functional
interrelationship with six Animal Breeding Enterprises that would
facilitate the possible modifications; (d) visits to different
establishments and places to collect information and experience on
managerial, technical and motivation fields; (e) elaborate a report with
recommendations which would be discussed in Hungary as a follow-up.
Following completion of the report, the Hungarians would decide on which
set of actions to follow.
IV. FINANCING
The survey would be organized with the help of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food. Financing would be provided by bilateral or
international grant funds for two consultants. The necessary interpreter
and local transport facilities would be provided by the Hungarian side.
V.  T-IMETABLE'
To be com2leted bv December 31. 1990
X Selecting the two consultants acctrding to TOR
- Carrying out the survey
- Writing the report
- Organizing conference with Hungarian livestock experts in Budapest
VI.  FINANCING
X     USS      ~~Forint
Two consultant cost over
one montl period                                     30,000    100,000'
Appraisal workshop in                                                               V
Hungary, 3 days                                      10.000    100K000
TOTAL                    i2A.Q2Q    200.000
\                                                                  '          t~~~~~~
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 110 -
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ANiNEX 8
IDICATORS FOR PROJECT r4ONITORING
i~~~~~~~~~~
K
;    !
i                                                                             '



'-                  ~~~~~BIINGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXFORT PROJECT
Gooda Procuraient and Status Report             -
For Each Contract that Costs More than the Equivalent of US9300,000
'articintn    ak
Reporting Period:  _______
Procurement Docuaents                                        Contract             Disburstment 1/ eaarks
Enter-     Sub-      Descrip-   go. of    Sent'        .          Date      Clos-      No. of    Eval-      Cont-      Name       Velue of
priae/     project   tion of    invi-       to          by         of        ing        Bids     uation     ract       and        Contract
Instit-             _goods       tation    IBRD        INRD       Invi-      Date                Report     Signa-    Nation-
ution                            for Bid              -           tation                         Approvil  ture        ality
Date       Date       of       Sudaet Actual
Sue-             Contract
cess-            Currency
ful                 USD
Bid-
der
- ~ ~ -
Note: For each package, planned dates and actual dates ohould be specified.
x   for each contract that costs the equivalent of 1 mallion USD, or more.
1/ in USD thousand.
,/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
:   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. m..



.1 ~      ~       ~      ~      I
Z-T             ..AM ! CULTUA   I 9 WEP 2
j               X*~~~~Tchnical hscsitaiico and Training
(aszketin8 mnd *ales activities)
Participatlus Sank:. 
Reporttig Period;
Procuremanst Docucnts                                    Contract           Disbursecsnt f
Zntetr-      Dacrip-       Selnt    Approved    Date        Closin    lio. of    Eval-       Cont-      Rsme       Value of
priae/  -    tion of        to           by       of          Date      -Bida     uction     ract       and        Contrect
instit-       Stem         MEhD        IUD       lnvt-                            Report     8I4ns-    Nation-
ute/                                             tation                           Date       ts'        aluty
Orgensz-                                                                                      Date      of 8uc-  :Fudrct  Actual           No.of   Date
Wtion                                                                                                   cesaful             Contract       "bn-    of
Bidder             Currency USD  weeks   Comp.:   ,_
7-
Note: For-esob MiG, planned date and aotual dates should be specified.
I/ n USD tbousad.
co1
on
7-
I    ~~~~~~7
Em                                                    U,,~~~~~..            



7-
INRTERATED AkMCULTUIRL EXPoRT FROJECS
(ForiSvI WiLLien)
Participating Bank 
_pazm'
Entarprise:
Subproj ct:
Reporting Period:
D4t. Subloan A4reamnt:
A-ur  Esal Estimate         Revd Kti * ato/Attual         a Comitmnts    bI Disbursanents
Local      Foren                  al       For ign               r      CA       Current.   Cumu-
-gvedngx    texbame   SatD&   rur.susz    Exeh1en  total    Deriod  lative.  Period    lative
Caital Cost
Engineering, Design
software. License and Know-bow
Machinery, Equlpait, Spare
Parts and Freigbt
iviAl Works end Conatruction                                                                                                                                       -
Preoperating Expenses
Consulting Services. Trainini
Custoam Duty
Contingencies (PhysSi-l and Price)
Total Installed Cost
,VAT
Total of Investment
Interest During Construction
Incremental Working Capital
Total- Financing Required
Pinanckn* 
OwCn,Resourcee
Equity Contrfj,tions
IU8D Subloan
Othor Loans
Total Tinancing
p/ 4absed on contracts signed or approved by the Participating Bank.                                                                                                w
#/  in thousand US dollars equivaIent, as well.                                                                                                                        O
0
,-b



IUTLAED .IWCLI3AL  PWRT RDZC
Dank Loa= Disbursemet /V
(US$ 1bvasnd)
Peotlerizod:_______
Cainltaauta (Actual)                               Oisbamsaw
Actual                        ftorecast.
Cmlmia
youa                             l ot                              of                               Sof
1993                                                                                                                                                               0-
1093
1913
l              b dU
/ l Th   mt  had  ebma.
A-
'inn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
tRER ISC .   WtB



-115 -
ANNEX'
Page 5 of 6
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
Summary Sheet For Each Subproject ApRroved Using Subloan Greater than
USS300.Q00 Equivalent'"
1,   Name of the financial institution
2.    Date of Subloan Agreement
3.    Name of Subproject farm/enterprise
additional information:
-   \ main activities
=    annual revenues
-    assets
=    number of employees
4. k~ Summary of objectives and scope of subprcject
5. . Capital cost estimate (Forint million):
Engineering, Design
Software, License,and Know-how 
Machinery, Equipmint, Spare Parts
and Freight
Civil Works and Construction
Preoperatizg Expenses
C9nsulting Services, Training
CAtstoms Duty
Contingenciep (Physical and Price)                                               L
Total installed Cost
VA-
Total of Investment
.Irtertst During Construction
Incremental Working f3apital
Total FinancLig Required
1/    The summary sheet will be sent-to NBH after sub-loan signing



- 116 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
6.    Financial Plan (Forint million):           Local  Foreign  Total
Equity Contributions
IBRD Subloan't
Other Loans
Total2'
7.    Terms and Conditions of Loans/Subloans               Grace
Maturity Period Interest
(Years)  (Years (X p.)
IBRD Subloan
Other Loans
8.    Implementation Schedule'/
*    bid/procurement
=     installation/construction
= .-commence operation
-    commence full operation
=     technical assistance/training
9.   Estimated Yearly Incremental Sales of Subproject at Full
Production (Forint Million):
of which c/c incremental sales
in million Ft
in thousand USD
10.   Financial Rate of Return (X)
11.   5-year projicted financial enterprise ratios (current, debt service
coverage, debt to equity)
12.   Special Conditions
l/    In thousand USD equivalent and in million HUF.
2/    Total foreign costs in thousand USD equivalent and in million RUF.
3/    Initial date and, where appropriate, duration.



-117-
Ea  9
INTE-GRATED AGRICULTURA EXPORT PROJECT
Reassiagent of Producer Prices Among CategQries of Price Regi,me. 1988-90
1988              l99122Q
Crops
Wheat (human consumption)     fixed          orientation        orientationyt
Rice                          fixed          free               free
Rye (human consumption)       orientation    free               free
Maize (animal feed)           orientation    orientation       minimumnI
Wheat (animal feed)           orientation    orientation        free
Other feed crops              orientation    free              free
Barley (for beer)             orientation    free               free
Sunflower                     orientation    free              free
Cabbage                       orientation    free              free
Soyabean                      orientation,   free              free
Sugarbeet                     fixed          frec              free
Tobacco                       orientation    free               free
Flour                         orientation    free              free
Apple                         orientation    free               free
Fruit and vegetables          minimum        minimum            free
Livestock
Pig                           fixed          orientation       minimum
beef cattle                   fixed          orientation  '   minimum
Milk                          fixed          fixed              fixedt;
Wool                          fixed          free               free
Breeding animal               fixed          free               free
Poultry, eggs                 minimum        minimum            free
Calves                        minimum        minimum           free
1 Administered price which can vary within a band of plus 5X to minus 5I
depending on the quality and market conditions.
t Floor price below which Gqvernment intervenes in the market to support the
minimum price of corn. \
3/ Administered price fixed by Governrlent.
Source: \Information provided to the mission by the National Price Board and           -
MEN in February 1990, Budapest..
\                V                     .       .    .~~~~~



- 118 -
AN        10        L
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPoRT PROJECT
Detailed SubsAdy Reduction Protrem in the Asrioultural and A4 oprocessAna Sectors
(billions of Forints in current prices)
1987       l1o889                  1990      .iUA       1992
I.  Production Subsidies                 4ILl        1.9          6u.        .SA8        &.g        Q
Aari ulture
MiL.k                               5.7         5.9         1.9        0.0        0.0        0.0
Beef Calves                        0.4        0.4          0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Cattle                             1.6        1.6          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Sheep-Goats                        0.2        0.2          0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2
Red Berries                        0.1        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Corn                               0.2        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Wool                               0.9        0.5          0.6        0.0        0.0        0.0
Vegetables                         0.2        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Low Quality Land                   5.1        5.3          6.7        6.0        3.0        0.0
Soil Improvement                   0.4        0.4          0.4        0.2        0.0        0.0
Irrigation Water                   0.1        0.1         0.1         0.0       IJ.0        0.0
Soybean                            0.2        0.4          0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Aaronroessin  Subsidies                                                   02          .         0.0
Baking bndustry                      0.4        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Milk Powder Feed                     0.1         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Bread Price Margin                   0.1        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Flour Price Supplement               0.2        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Distilling Industry                  0.3        0.2          0.2        0.2        0.0        0.0
Meat Industry                        0.6         0.3         0.2        0.0        0.0        0.0
Alcohol Industry                     0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Grain Trust Subsidy                  0.7        0.4          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Vegetable Oil Industry               0.5        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
II.  Tax Rebate (exnort)                   20.0          l         18.        17.1       17.0       17.0
III.  Intervention Fund'J                   13.0       11.9        11.0        Si         0.          0.
IV. Interest Rate SubfaidhYf                  i        0L.         Li          Li       L0           La
V. Innuts Subsidv                          642                     7.0                  L0 Q.O      0.0                 |
Fertilixer                           4.8        3.2          4.0        2.0        0.0        0.0
Protein Feeds                        0.8        0.6          3.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Plastic for Greenhouse               0.4        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
VI. Others                                  2L1         1I.                    2.         1.6A      L1
Contribution to investment funds!/   1.4        1.0         1.2        0.9         0.0        0.0
Capital allocation for indebted
agr. cooperative farms3/           0.0        0.0         0.0         0.4        0.4        0.4
Interest rate subsidy on
investment projects!/              0.7        0.6         0.8        1.0         1.2        1.5
VII.  Xnvestment6                            All.A .                  .0        40         3.5        S.O
TOTAL                           65.3       AlA         S7.4        37.8                  au.
GDP                          1,22S.4    1,417.5      1,687.3    1,920.0    2,140.0    2,370.0
Share of GDP                    5.31        4.2Z        3.41        2.01       1.21       0.9S
Administered mainly by the Ministry of Trade to correct distortions in the market for selected
cmmodities.
Al      Financial assistance to farms and earoprocessing enterprises in financial difficulties.
V/      Funds to supplement f4rms in disadvantaged areas; part of this is repayable and part non-repayable
depending on the circumstances of the individual case. It is being moved into the Regional
Development Program.
41      Financial r*sources to fund the debt reduction progreAm for low efficiency cooperatives.
Al      Interest rebate prinarily for the debt reduction program of low efficiency cooperatives, but also
includes other prograns in agriculture and agroprocessing.
This is both irvestment subsidies for directly productive and infrastructure activities off the farm
until 1990 and, after that date it includes the comnitted subsidy to finisb off the ongoing
investment at the farm level and the new and ongoing infrastructure investment off farm.



- 119 -
V                                 ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 11
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR ERR CALCULATIONS
1.          Financial prices were adjusted to reflect the economic opportunity
costs of project inputs and outputs. No premium was attached to foreign exchange
since the quoted rate of 60 Ft/US$ was )udged to reflect its opportunity value.
No explicit price adjustments were made to reflect the effects of the project
investments on the distribution of income or the relative tradeoff between
savings and consumption.
2.          Direct transfer payments including taxes, duties, and subsidies
still in effect, sure deducted from financial prices as the first step toward
determining shadow prices that reflect the economic values of project inputs
and outputs.   Tr correct for price distortion in traded items, 1990 border
prices, (cif for imports, fob for exports) were utilized.   These were then
adjusted to account for the transport and marketing costs from the point of
import or export to the project site to form the economic import or export parity
prices. Prices were determined in this way for imported equipment, some domestic
equipment which would be tradable under certain conditions, some raw materials,
energy, and fintshed goods.  In the case of energy, prices applied for electric
power and coal are based on Austria's international energy trade while the price
of petroleum products and natural gas was based on current import contracts of
Mediterranean countries. Price projections were based on the latest U-)rld Bank
Commodity Price Forecasts. Prices for project output are based on current fob
price adjusted for transport in the case of existing product lines and estimates         v
of prevailing international prices made by relevant foreign trading organization
in the case of new exportables such as fruit and vegetable juices.   Price    -
projections took into account expected trends for product categories in Hungary's
major export market.
3.          In adjusting for price distortions in non-tradeda items, the financial
cost 'of labor was reduced by the amount of social costs, principally social
security payments, since the market wage rate for labor approximates the
opportunity costs of shifting workers from the "without" to the ",!ith" project
activities. In the case of domestic equipment and raw materials which are not
traded, economic prices were obtained after eliminating taxes and subsidies.
I  \~~~~



MAP SECTION
W7m



IBRO 22
HUNGARY
H U N G A R Y ~ ~    ~           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A 
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT                                                             !- 
PRINCIPAL CROP AREAS                                       CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                              - H \                                    U. S S. R.
MAJOR CROP AREAS- MOTORWAY
I CORN                                  ------MAIN ROADS
;WHEAT                                            RAILROADS
SUNFLOWER                                         CANAIs
MVINEYARVINEYARIS
NA1JONAL CAPITAL
MEY CAPITALS                                                                     i
- -MEGYE ICQUNTY) BOUNDARIES
--r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-~A                                                                                                                                   JAUAY 
K-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IS IK.,                                        M                                                                                                         i
A                                          '                                                                        I                                   .   I
VAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As
ALAMrRl
SOMOG                                                              o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~~~~~~r~~~~~oo  (  R~~~~~~~~~~~ILDRMETERS 0  Io  20  30  40  50  60  70  RI
CIT  ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ,,!J ~OLAND 
Sze   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CEMOtVKA~                                    U.S.S.R.
A-d              ~~~~~AUSTRIA,
YUGOSLAVIA                                 "LRNYA
---=~--  ITAB.T  *.>   ' GRO  ~  TURSKEY
JANUARY 1



. .                                            ..  V                                                                    _%~                          . .L*I~dIJ4~                                     18RD 2
-              \        H U N G A R Y                                                                        -G  A R.
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT                                                        V                                      I                .saoo'co-..                      i
CF¶TABILITY  OF AGRICULTURAL  COQPERATIVES BY COUNTY                                   CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                                        I4WC                    ACIRO7OS    U. S S. R.
RROFITABILiTY.OF AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES BY COUNTY    - MOTORWAY                                                                   80BO50-APAUJ-
HIGH INCOME (BETWEEN 115 150Y Pf THE AVERAGE)            MAIN ROADS                                j6  ,
AVERAGE INCOVE (BETWEEN 85 - 115% OF THE AVERAGE)    -   RAILROADS
BELOW AVERAOE INCOME (BETWEEN 5S 85% OF THE AVERAGE)  ,   CANALS                      ,ua-
LOW INCOME (NOT REACHING 50% OF THE AVERACE)             RIVERS                                      J          *-.AI 4 ;4,;
NATIONAL CAPITALLCY
@ MEOYE CAPITALS                                                                    ICSIgrr1'
2                       -.  - _ _ MEGOE (COUNTfl ROUNOARIES                                                                                                                  0ESo
-.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIE -'R'IIA
AUSTRIA
I To                                         V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                            M&h6n4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAT
ViS                                                                                                                               0EV    <                                          o   !w W t 
1 §4                                                                                           .                                                           ROMANIA
2AM                   \p.iorcos
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N M--S  IS -0 !R I           1
Sz ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~*~EHSOKA  ~
pts,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cog ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~                               BLAI
Koposv                                                                                                   MILES 0     to    20~~~~~~~~~20GR    3 ANUAo
k  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  N                           I,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~f   ,                      2
I                                   IEGD 0)B



INTG~AhD            HUNGARY                                                                                       z*~
INTEGkATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT                                                            X    ,  
LOCATION OF PRIVATE SECTOR FARMERS                                              CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                  /            -                                       r'Hia""*  .   U. S. S. R.
LOCATION OF PRIVATE SECTOR FARMERS'                 MOTORWAY
=    MOST POPULATED COUNTIES                    M- MAIN ROADS                                        .                                               BAW 
-   AVERAGE POPULATED COUNTIEI                   -    -  RAILW)ADS                                                                                   EN
LEAST POPULATED COUNTIES                                CANLs
'NOTE; Ro-4 fo     oR c-nok.la A6.RIER                                                                             -
P*pO ol.iion i; ATgEiOu,e -nd Sto-k of Pig,     NATIONAL CAPITAL
)   IS&onnfo,n       (i)  ~~MEGYE CAPITALS                               uj6 
MEGTE (COUiNTY) RUORR
AUSTRIA                                      r          -      INTERNATIONAL RONAIS(8to.4i                                                                                                 N~y6
VES ~~~~~~~~~SAMA'
kE-d
-~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~ .
A4k     'io''                                                    \                '              '   \          '                             _      'oh
NOOY*ARiRI'O~ ~ ~ ~ ~~7                                                                                                                                     RILOMITIRS 0   to  20  30  40  50  ES  70
MILRS 0     tG    20      30     do
RCHO>~~~~~(SA~~~~  U. S. S.P
AUSTRIAN*
~HUNrARY/
OTY    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ROMANJIA
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                                                       YU~~~~~a4GOSLAVI ~   ...'
K  -,    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         ~~~~~~BULGARIA
JANUARY



