Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16491
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3229-HU)
April 16, 1997
Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division
Central and Southeastern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -    Hungarian Forints (HUF)
1988 US$1    =    HUF 50.4
1989 US$I   =    HUF 59.1
1990 US$1    =    HUF 63.2
1991 US$1         HUF 74.7
1992 US$1    =    HUF 79.0
1993 US$1    =    HUF 79.0
1994 US$I         HUF 105.1
1995 US$1         HIUF 125.7
1996 US$1    =    HUF 151.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(metric)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMP  -  Agroprocessing Modernization Project
APR   -  Agricultural Policy Review
CMEA   -  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
EU   -  European Union
FRR   -  Financial Rate of Return
GATT  -  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
IAEP  -  Integrated Agricultural Export Project
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
MOA   -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOT  -  Ministry of Trade
NBH   -  National Bank of Hungary
PB   -  Participating Bank
PHARE  -  Poland-Hungary Assistance Recovery
OECD   -  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
Vice President:              Johannes Linn
Department Director (Acting):  Hans Apitz
Division Chief:              Michele de Nevers
Staff Member:                Kishore Nadkarni



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3229-HU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE.                                                                                                                                 i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                                                                    iii
PART  I. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..............................................................1
A.    Project  Objectives  ..............................................................:1I
B.  Evaluation of Objectives ..............................................................1
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................................3
D.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation ................................6
E.   Project Sustainability ..............................................................7
F.   Bank Performance ..............................................................7
G.  Borrower Performance ............................................................                                                8
H.  Assessment of Outcome ..............................................................8
I.    Future Operation ..............................................................9
J.   Key Lessons Learned ..............................................................9
PART  II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..............................................................11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                                  .15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .16
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................................                                                               17
Table 8B:  Project Financing ............................................                                                          17
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................                                               18
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ............................................                                                  19
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................                              20
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................                                               20
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ............................................                                                   21
Appendixes:
A. Aide-Memoire of ICR Initiation Mission
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Map - IBRD No. 28664
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3229-HU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Agricultural Export
Project (IAEP) in Hungary, for which an IBRD loan in the amount of US$100 million equivalent was
approved on June 20, 1990; signed on June 29, 1990; and made effective on October 1, 1990.
The original loan closing date of December 31, 1995 was extended by six months to June 30,
1996. The loan account was kept open thereafter for a period of four months to enable completion of
disbursements in respect of expenditures already incurred before the revised closing date. The last
disbursement from the loan was made on July 26, 1996. The final amount utilized was US$99.21 million
equivalent and the unutilized balance of US$790,000 equivalent was canceled with effect from October
31, 1996.
The ICR was prepared in the Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division of the
Central and Southeastern Europe Departments (Country Departments I and II) in the Europe and Central
Asia Region. The current Task Manager is Kishore Nadkarni; the report was reviewed by Michele de
Nevers, Division Chief, and Franz Kaps, Project Adviser. The Borrower - the National Bank of Hungary
(NBH) - provided a written contribution, jointly prepared with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
including a summary which is included in an Appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the last supervision mission of October 1995 and
followed up during the Implementation Completion Report mission of July 1996. It is based upon
materials in the project files and discussions with relevant officials of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), National Bank of Hungary (NBH) and the participating banks. MOA and NBH contributed in
the preparation of the ICR by: (i) discussing major points included in the report; (ii) providing
information on the credit line component; (iii) coordinating collection of necessary data; and (iv)
providing the Borrower's contribution to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3229-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.    Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focused on
supporting the country's program of structural adjustment to make the economy more efficient, flexible,
market responsive and competitive in external markets. In the agricultural sector, the Integrated
Agricultural Export Project (IAEP) was preceded by Bank operations to improve efficiency and
competitiveness in grain storage and farm mechanization; production and marketing of livestock and
meat products; crop production; and modernization of agroprocessing enterprises. It was followed by an
operation to strengthen the food and non-food consumer goods marketing and distribution systems.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
ii.    Objectives: The development objectives of the IAEP were to: (a) provide quality food products
for export either as raw material or as inputs into agroprocessed goods; and (b) improve the efficiency of
agricultural producers by providing additional financial resources to small scale, private farmers and
modernizing the agrobusiness methods and practices of managers of large scale farms (para. 1).
iii.    Components: The project consisted of: (a) a credit component of US$100 million; (b) an
institutional component comprising technical assistance and training in the areas of agriculture and food
marketing; commodity exchange development and market information services; training of farm
managers in business planning and marketing; extension services and training for private farmers; and
livestock advisory services; and (c) a sector policy component including Government actions for:
reduction of agricultural subsidies; improving the efficiency of large scale farms; facilitating
restructuring of cooperatives; making land mortgageable for bank loans; and reduction in import
licensing (para 2).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
iv.    Achievement of Objectives: Over its implementation period, the project substantially achieved
its major objectives, albeit with varying degrees of delay in the case of the policy component. In regard
to policy objectives, overall agricultural subsidies declined from 8 percent of GDP in 1988 to I percent in
1990, and reached their lowest levels in 1992, but subsequently increased to 2 percent of GDP in 1994 in
the face of external pressures emanating from three successive years of drought.  Subsidies have
continued to decline since in real terms and are budgeted at around I percent of GDP in 1997, lower than
in most OECD countries. Important legislation was passed in regard to the land compensation policy,



iv
reorganization of cooperatives, and privatization of land in collective farms as a result of which about 90
percent of all agricultural land is expected to be privately owned by the end of 1997. The privatization of
state farms was substantially completed by mid-1996. Out of about 120 state farms, 86 were fully
privatized, mostly through purchase by Hungarian investors. This includes 39 loss-making state farms
that were liquidated and their assets sold through auction. Twenty-eight state farms, most of which are
engaged in production of plant and animal breeding stock, are expected to remain in majority state
ownership although about 30 percent of the shares are to be distributed to private investors, including
current managers and employees. Introduction of a new law on land mortgages has been substantially
delayed and is now expected to be put before Parliament in 1997. In line with Hungary's commitments
to GATT, import licensing and quotas have been replaced by tariffication (paras. 9 to 14).
v.    In respect of financial objectives, subprojects financed under the project did not directly
contribute to exports but provided raw materials in the form of crop production, livestock and meat that
entered into agroprocessed exports. Based on estimates prepared by the Borrower's agencies for a
representative sample of subprojects, the weighted average financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated at
about 16 percent (as compared to the minimum requirement of 12 percent). Private farmers and rural
investors were the main beneficiaries, receiving about 74 percent of the subloans, the balance going to
cooperatives (23 percent) and state farms (3 percent). Repayment performance was satisfactory - about
72 percent of the subloans were fully current in repayment; in regard to subloans with arrears, the PBs
view the problems in most cases as transitional that would be corrected; legal proceedings for recovery
have been instituted in 5 percent of the subloans (paras. 15 to 20). Institutional objectives in regard to
technical assistance and training were substantially achieved as well (paras. 21 to 23).
vi.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The main risks to project implementation were recognized
at appraisal - the possible effects on the subsector from variations in the implementation of the overall
economic transformation and structural reform programs, and insufficient incentives to farm and
enterprise managers to carry out the required restructuring. What could not be foreseen was the
juxtaposition of the sudden collapse of the CMEA market and the transitional difficulties in the domestic
markets, and their combined impact on the agricultural and non-agricultural enterprises and the banking
system. The implementation period was also marked by an unusual period of three successive years of
droughts which increased pressures on the Government for increasing the level of subsidies (paras. 6 and
25).
vii.   Bank and Borrower Performance: While Bank performance was satisfactory in all stages of the
project cycle as acknowledged by the Borrower, the Bank's concept of the project as an "integrated
operation" was not supported by the project design that was adopted and the specific implementation
arrangements entered into (para. 29). Bank supervision tended to focus on the credit line component, and
in hindsight, the Bank could have been more forceful in persuading MOA to adopt a more coordinated
approach in regard to monitoring of the institutional component (para. 30).
viii.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during all stages of the project cycle. NBH carried
out well its responsibility of monitoring and reporting of the progress of the credit line component.
MOA's various departments in charge of monitoring of the institutional component cooperated well with
the Bank supervision missions. The Bank was unable to persuade MOA, however, to define a focal point
to be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the institutional component. Compliance with
covenants was marked by some delays in the case of policy components but these were substantially
complied with by project closing. Cooperation between the Borrower and the Bank remained responsive
and cordial at all times (paras. 31 and 32).



v
ix.    Assessment of Project Outcome: The overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory as the
project achieved to a substantial extent its major objectives in terms of sector policy, financial benefits,
and institutional progress, albeit with varying degrees of delay in the case of the policy component (para.
33).
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
x.     Sustainability: The project achievements are likely to be sustainable given the Government's
continued implementation of its economic and structural reform program which is being supported by the
Bank through the recently approved Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) and a
proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL). The Government is expected to continue its program
of agricultural sector reform as well in the context of Hungary's planned accession into the EU, and the
Bank is helping the Hungarian authorities with technical assistance in the preparatory work for the
transition (para. 28).
xi.    Future Operations: Although the Borrower's agencies have not prepared a formal forward-
looking operational plan, they have reiterated their support for sustaining the institutional achievements
of the project. The PBs expect to be able to recycle the funds from the repayments of the first generation
of subloans to make additional subloans for the purposes defined under the project (paras. 34 and 35).
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
xii.   The main lessons from the project as summarized in para. 36 are:
(i)  project design should be limited to achievement of a few, key, well-defined objectives, and
should be appropriately reflected at the outset in agreed implementation arrangements; in
retrospect, the project concept as an "integrated operation" was too ambitious in relation
to the project design and implementation scheme;
(ii) policy conditionalities should be limited to a few, key actions with a clear indication of
priorities and importance; and
(iii) special attention needs to be provided to the design and implementation arrangements
where the project's technical assistance component is financed largely from external donor
sources.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3229-HU)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The development objectives of the Integrated Agricultural Export Project (IAEP) were to: (a)
provide quality food products for export either as raw materials or as inputs into agroprocessed goods;
and (b) improve the efficiency of agricultural producers by providing additional financial resources to
small scale, private farmers and modernizing the agrobusiness methods and practices of managers of
large scale farms.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of the following components: (a) a credit
component of US$100 million; (b) an institutional component comprising technical assistance and
training in the areas of agriculture and food marketing; commodity exchange development; market
information services; subsector professional organizations; agricultural insurance scheme; training of
farm managers in business planning and marketing; local consultancy services; training of private
farmers; and livestock advisory services; and (c) a sector policy component including government
actions for: reduction of subsidies to the agricultural sector; improving the efficiency of large scale farms
through restructuring or liquidation as appropriate; facilitating restructuring of cooperatives by
improvements in the governing laws and regulations; making land mortgageable for commercial bank
loans; and gradual reduction in import licensing.
B. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The project was designed at a time of major economic change in Hungary in 1990 as Hungary's
first democratically elected government undertook an accelerated program of macroeconomic and
structural reform. This program differed radically from earlier efforts in its clear vision of a Hungarian
market economy fully integrated with Western Europe. Foreign trade was liberalized; prices were freed;
subsidies to consumers and producers were drastically reduced; and legal restrictions on hiring and firing
of workers were removed. Significant progress was also achieved in reforming the enterprise and
financial sectors, including the creation of a large number of private banks and sale of state-owned
enterprises to domestic and foreign investors, raising the share of private sector contribution to GDP to
more than 50 percent. Consistent with the overall economic program, major changes were also required
in the Hungarian agricultural sector, which accounted at the time for about 20 percent of GDP, 20
percent of employment, and 30 percent of exports to convertible currency markets. Despite being a star
performer among the agricultural sectors of the former CMEA countries, the legacy in Hungary's
agricultural sector was mixed. Agriculture was constrained by the well-known shortcomings of socialist
systems. Quantity considerations were the major objective while quality and efficiency played a
secondary role. Agricultural land did not have clear ownership, and land markets did not function. The
sector needed an expensive system of subsidies, partly to keep consumer food prices low. The secure



2
markets in other Eastern bloc countries resulted in inadequate attention to quality improvements. Farm
structure was skewed in favor of large scale farms, owned either by the state or by state-controlled (as
against member-controlled) cooperatives. Private farmers accounted for only about 15 percent of the
agricultural land but were estimated to contribute to around 50 percent of the value added in agricultural
production in certain activities, e.g. vegetable production. A major breakthrough in agricultural policy
was the freeing of agricultural producer prices in January 1990, but further improvements were required
in liberalization of agricultural imports, reduction of subsidies, restructuring or liquidation of
unprofitable large scale farms, and removal of constraints to increased owner-operation of farms by
private farmers. In this overall context, the project identified as "two of the most pressing challenges
facing the agricultural sector": (i) the urgent need for large scale farms to increase their efficiency
through improved business planning, adoption of modern financial management methods, and a
decision-making orientation of the farm accounting systems; and (ii) for private farmers to be enabled to
develop into owner-operators of commercially-oriented farms for which they would need improved
access to commercial credit and supporting services such as extension and marketing.
4.     Against this background, the project's objectives of increasing exports of quality (and hence
higher value added) products, and improving the efficiency of agricultural producers, both large and
small scale, were clear. The project was conceived to be an "integrated operation which addresses the
urgent need for agricultural producers to vertically coordinate their output mix on the one hand with the
capabilities of the agroprocessing sector, and, on the other, with the effective demand on the domestic
and international markets".
5.     Project design rightly identified the main constraints to be addressed in the policy and
institutional frameworks. The policy component identified the main areas for action in improving the
enabling environment for farm restructuring. The institutional component, financed largely from donor
funds under EU PHARE cofinancing, covered the most relevant areas where technical assistance and
training were essential for assisting both large and small scale producers to improve their operations;
monitoring was to be carried out by the MOA, and for the marketing related components, by the Ministry
of Trade (MOT). Design of the credit component was influenced by the then newly issued guidelines in
the Bank on lending through financial intermediaries; accordingly, eligibility for financing was extended
to a broad spectrum of beneficiaries in the rural sector, and on-lending interest rates were to be market
determined. An innovation, aimed at encouraging the participating banks (PBs) faster to commit and
disburse the credit line funds, was the allocation of the loan amount among individual PBs on the basis
of bids submitted by them as to the amounts they would expect to onlend; the PBs were then required to
pay the commitment fees on their respective allocations. To encourage private and small scale farmers
to utilize the credit line, simplified evaluation procedures were provided for subloans under US$300,000
equivalent. In hindsight, where project design fell short was in ensuring an integrated approach for
project implementation. Each of the identified objectives - and the associated components - was
relevant, but the project lacked a mechanism to provide coordination between the credit, policy and
institutional components to ensure mutual reinforcement and benefits. Thus, the project components
were implemented in relative isolation from each other; while important benefits were secured under
each component, the project design was not conducive to its implementation as an "integrated
operation".
6.     The main risks to project implementation were recognized at appraisal - the possible effects on
the subsector from variations in implementation of the overall economic transformation and structural
reform programs; and insufficient incentives to farm and enterprise managers to carry out the required
restructuring. What could not be foreseen was the juxtaposition of the sudden collapse of the CMEA
market and the transitional difficulties in domestic markets, and their combined impact on the
agricultural and non-agricultural enterprises and the banking system.



3
7.    A major review of the Bank's ongoing credit line projects in Hungary was carried out in October
1992; for consistency, thresholds and conditions were harmonized among the different credit lines. No
significant amendments were deemed necessary in the case of the IAEP as the design of the credit
component already provided for substantial flexibility and simpler procedures for smaller subloans
(under US$300,000) to private and small scale farmers and rural investors. The Bank also undertook
with the Hungarian authorities a major Agricultural Policy Review (APR) in 1994-95 that focused on
changes needed in the context of Hungary's increasing integration with, and eventual planned accession
into, the EU.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    Over its implementation period, the project substantially achieved its main objectives - sector
policy, institutional, and financial - although with varying degrees of delay, particularly in the case of the
policy and institutional objectives.
Sector Policy Objectives
9.     Reduction of Agricultural Subsidies:   Overall agricultural subsidies were sharply reduced
between 1988 and 1990, from about 8 percent of GDP to I percent, thus more than meeting the
requirement of reduction by a third by December 1990. Subsidies continued to decline up to 1992 when
they reached their lowest levels. Subsequently, subsidies increased to about 2 percent of GDP by 1994
due in large part to the adverse effects of three years of successive droughts. An assessment of
Hungary's agricultural support programs, including subsidies, was a major focus of the APR carried out
in 1994-95. Subsidies have declined in real terms thereafter. As budgeted, the 1997 agricultural support
programs total about US$490 million, about 30 percent less than in 1993 in US dollar terms, and
accounting for about I percent of GDP. At these levels, aggregate agricultural subsidies in Hungary are
substantially below levels in most OECD countries, although they are still higher than in other countries
with comparable GDP.
10.   Land Reform and Farm Restructuring: The privatization and restructuring of large scale state
and collective farms has been substantially completed. Privatization of land was based on compensation
policy and legislation guiding the restructuring of collective farms. By mid-1996, the compensation
process was completed in respect of about 85 percent of the land; the land to be allocated to the new
owners has physically been defined. On the other hand, the physical distribution of land shares for
collective farms has been lagging behind; only about 20 percent of this category of land had been
redistributed by mid-1996. As a result of land privatization, which is expected to be completed in 1997,
over 90 percent of the land would be privately owned.
11.   Reorganization of Collective and State Farms: The relevant legislation was passed in 1992 to
provide a framework for the distribution of assets and privatization of land in collective farms. The
actual restructuring took longer than expected; the first phase was completed only in 1995. From the
initial assets of the collective farms, about 42 percent were distributed to active members, 39 percent to
pensioners, and 19 percent to ex-members. In the first phase of the reorganization, most of the active
members opted to remain under the umbrella of the cooperative farming organizations. Only about 15
percent of the active members left, and about one-third of these have created smaller cooperative
organizations or partnerships. Cooperative farms are now evolving toward service and marketing types
of cooperation or holding-type structures.
12.    The privatization of state farms was substantially completed by mid-1996. Of the initial state
farm land (about 411,000 hectares), about 47 percent was used to compensate former owners. Out of the



4
121 state farms, 86 have been fully privatized, mostly through purchase by Hungarian investors. Thirty
nine loss-making state farms were liquidated and their assets sold through auctions. The privatization of
seven other state farms is in process and expected to be completed in 1997. Twenty eight other state
farms were converted into joint stock companies and remain under majority state ownership. These
include mainly farms engaged in plant and animal genetic material production.  The Hungarian
authorities intend to sell about 30 percent of the shares in these farms to private investors (including
current managers and employees).
13.   Land Mortgage: Hungary inherited a solid system of cadastre and land titling, but this required
adjustment to the needs of a modem land market in a market economy. The upgrading of the land titling
system is in process with significant financial support from the EU for computerization of the over 100
land registry offices. Progress in introduction of a law governing land mortgages has lagged behind,
however. Preparation of a draft law has been in process since 1993. During the 1994-95 APR, the Bank
commented on the proposals under consideration at the time, including the creation of a suitable Land
Mortgage Institution. Finalization of the draft law continued to be delayed subsequently, and is now
expected to be submitted to Parliament in the first half of 1997.
14.   Reduction of Import Licensing:  In line with Hungary's commitment under GATT, import
licensing and quotas were gradually reduced. Beginning in 1995, import licensing, quotas and other non-
tariff measures were replaced by new (and higher) tariff rates under the GATT provisions.
Financial Objectives
15.   Project Cost and Financing:  The total project cost is estimated at about US$200 million
equivalent as compared to about US$275 million equivalent projected at appraisal, reflecting the much
smaller than expected average size of the subprojects financed under the loan. In regard to project
financing, the Bank loan, which financed the investment component, accounted for a higher share of total
financing than expected (53 percent as compared to 45 percent). Against the expected cofinancing in the
amount of US$11 million equivalent from various OECD sources, actual cofinancing amounted to about
US$7 million, largely from EU PHARE.
16.   Subproject Portfolio Characteristics: A total of about 1,445 subloans was made under the
project for an amount of US$99.2 million equivalent for financing of investment and working capital; the
average subloan size was about US$68,500 equivalent. All subloans were onlent by the PBs in local
currency for maturities of up to ten years with up to three years of grace, at interest rates that included
individual PBs' spreads over the NBH refinancing rate. Of the total amount of Bank funds onlent, the
largest share was for crop production (33 percent), followed by agroprocessing and services (24 percent
each), and livestock production (18 percent). The bulk of the subloans went to private farmers and rural
investors (74 percent), the balance going to cooperatives (23 percent) and state farms (3 percent).
17.   Subproject Performance: Under the project, the PBs and the beneficiaries were required to
calculate rates of return for individual subloans exceeding US$300,000 equivalent; subloans below this
threshold were to be evaluated by the PBs on the basis of their normal practices in respect of such
subloans, including tests of the creditworthiness of the subborrowers. In practice, almost all the subloans
were below the US$300,000 threshold. Ex-post financial rates of return (FRRs) were estimated by the
Borrower's agencies on the basis of a representative sample of subprojects. These indicate a weighted
average FRR in real terms of about 16 percent (as compared to the project requirement of an FRR of at
least 12 percent in respect of subloans over US$300,000 equivalent). The PBs and subborrowers were
not required to calculate economic rates of return (ERRs) under the project as the requirement for a
separate estimation of ERRs had been dropped during project implementation in recognition of the
Government's program of widespread price and trade liberalization.



5
18.   In regard to repayment performance, about 72 percent of the subloans are fully current in regard
to repayment of principal and interest; this includes about 34 percent of the subloans where the
subborrowers prepaid the subloans prior to maturity. Of the remaining 28 percent, nine percent were
sold by the PBs under the Government's program of debt consolidation introduced in 1994, and are no
longer on books of the PBs. The remaining 19 percent are affected by arrears of payment of either
principal or interest or both. The PBs expect that, in most of the cases, the problems are transitional due
to market problems or delayed completion, and are expected to be resolved. However, in respect of
about 5 percent of the subloans, the PBs have initiated legal proceedings against the subborrowers to
recover owed amounts.
19.   Participating Banks: Eight banks participated under the project. The Commercial and Credit
Bank (K&H Bank) had the largest share of the subloans (35 percent), followed by Mezobank and
Agrobank (24 percent together), Budapest Bank ( 18 percent), Hungarian Credit Bank (13 percent), and
OTP Bank (11 percent).
20.   Performance of Participating Banks: The project contributed to the further strengthening of the
loan evaluation and supervision procedures of the PBs that had been developed under earlier Bank credit
lines. More general development of the PBs' institutional and operational capabilities was pursued under
other concurrent and successor Bank operations. In common with many other Hungarian commercial
banks, the PBs under the project are facing systemic problems, particularly in relation to the non-
performing and problem parts of their portfolios. The Government has taken some measures to
strengthen the financial situation of the banks through injections of new capital. However, substantial
further progress is needed, and this is being pursued under the recently approved Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL).
Institutional Objectives
21.   The institutional component under the project consisted of a program of technical assistance and
training, financed largely from EU PHARE sources. After initial difficulties, due in part to procedural
problems and the multiplicity of local agencies involved, the different components were completed with
varying degrees of delay as compared to the original expectations.
22.   In respect of agricultural and food marketing, an allocation of ECU430,000 was utilized to
develop and implement a domestic and overseas training program for agricultural and food marketing
specialists. The Budapest Commodity Exchange, with ECU70,000 of assistance under the project that
supplemented that received from US and other commodity agencies, has become fully operational and
has progressively expanded the range of its trading activities.  The establishment of the market
information system was started in 1990 and the first phase, financed under the project (ECU770,000),
was completed in 1992. Further development of the market information system is being pursued under
the Bank's successor Product Market Development Project (Loan 3509-HU). In regard to subsector
interprofessional marketing organizations, by 1996, 26 accredited product organizations had been
established, including for the principal products - milk, meat, poultry, corn, vegetable, oil, fruits and
vegetables. A program for training offarm and agricultural business managers was developed with the
assistance of bilateral grants (from  Germany, Netherlands and Finland).  For local consultancy
development, French bilateral funding supported the training of staff from selected Hungarian institutes
in French institutions and companies in preparation for consultancy work. Training of private farmers,
and establishment of a consultancy service system for them, were pursued under an ECU3 million
allocation. A computer-based registry of consulting services has been prepared. The training program
also includes model demonstration farms, funded from bilateral grants from Netherlands and New
Zealand, and study tours for private farmers and investors from bilateral grants from Germany.



6
23.   Studies were also carried out as agreed on the development of an agricultural insurance system
under an ECU70,000 allocation with the assistance of French consultants; and on agricultural extension
services which resulted in a significant modification of the system, including a new program introduced
in 1994 to subcontract delivery of extension services through eligible private extension agents or groups.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Record
24.    The project was appraised in January 1990, followed by loan negotiations in April 1990, Board
approval in June 1990, and signature, also in June 1990. The loan became effective in October 1990.
Disbursements were much faster than projected in the first three years of project implementation (1990-
93) with some of the PBs fully committing and disbursing their respective allocations under the credit
line, but slowed down subsequently as other PBs were not able to fully commit their funds. As indicated
earlier, the Bank carried out in October 1992 a major review of its ongoing credit lines in Hungary,
including the IAEP. No major changes were deemed necessary in respect of the IAEP at the time. The
original loan closing date of December 31, 1995, was extended at the Borrower's request by six months
to June 30, 1996 to enable completion of disbursements in respect of commitments already entered into.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
25.    Two factors in particular had a significant impact on project implementation. First, the major
changes that occurred after 1990 in the former CMEA markets which were critical for many Hungarian
exporters. The effect was even more pronounced as, encouraged by the increasing trade in convertible
currency within CMEA participants prior to 1990, many enterprises had undertaken investments aimed
primarily at these CMEA convertible currency markets, but which were not readily switchable to the
more demanding Western markets when the CMEA markets disappeared.  The second was the
deleterious effect of an unusual period of three successive droughts between 1990 and 1993 which
severely affected agricultural production, thereby reducing product quality and increasing unit costs of
production for processors. The prolonged drought period also contributed to escalating pressures on the
Government for reversing the falling trend in agricultural subsidies until then. The juxtaposition of the
sudden collapse of the CMEA market and the transitional difficulties in domestic markets under the
economic adjustment and structural reform program, combined to lead to a significant decline in
agricultural employment, and required the Government to reinforce schemes to provide alternative rural
employment, including through special schemes of regional development.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
26.   Despite the substantial progress in reducing overall levels of agricultural subsidies since 1988
(para. 9), the Government, in large part due to the pressures resulting from the external factors described
in the preceding paragraph, continued to maintain a program of production and investment subsidies as
part of its overall support program. Production subsidies were largely in respect of working capital loans
against certification of use of approved seeds and other inputs by the farmers. These were reviewed
during the APR in 1994 and not found to have significant biases. Investment subsidies, however, were
largely provided through the Agricultural Development Fund, established in 1993 to encourage
investments in small and medium scale farms and rural enterprises, and included a variety of forms -
grants for investments in infrastructure, and soft-interest loans as well as amounts to be applied against
payments of interest on commercial loans, for investments in productive assets. The interest rate
subsidies on commercial bank loans were given outside the banking system; the commercial banks
received the normal market rates of interest from the farmer or investor who was later eligible to claim a



7
variable refund (of up to 50 percent of the interest paid) depending upon the type of investment from
regional tax offices.  Although not distortive in terms of the commercial banks' evaluation of
investments, the prevalence of the subsidy schemes did appear to favor the targeted sector (small and
medium farms and enterprises with up to 60 employees) as compared to larger investors. It may also
explain in part the fact that almost all the subprojects under the project were relatively small, with an
average subloan size of only around US$68,500.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
27.    The responsibility for implementation of the technical assistance and training components was
distributed between MOA and MOT (for the marketing component). Within MOA, responsibility for
monitoring the progress of individual components was dispersed among different departments.
Consequently, there was no single focal point for coordination of the implementation during the critical
early stages, and led to individual tasks being launched and completed with varying degrees of delay.
The lack of a focal point also led to a less than integrated approach in the implementation of the different
components, with some loss of consistency and the benefits of mutual reinforcement of the components
under a more coordinated approach. There also remained, overall, a dichotomy between the credit and
the institutional components, with each being pursued in relative isolation from the other.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.    The project achievements are likely to be sustainable.  The Government is continuing to
implement its economic and structural reform program, including enterprise and financial sector reform,
to be supported by the recently approved EFSAL (FY97), and public expenditure reform, to be supported
by the planned Public Sector Adjustment Loan (FY98). During the period of project implementation, the
Government has made important strides in agricultural sector reform, including privatization of farms
and agroprocessing enterprises, and is expected to continue this process in view of Hungary's planned
accession into the EU. The Bank has been substantially involved in the agricultural policy dialogue, and
is continuing to support the Government's efforts in preparing the sector for increasing integration with
the EU. Participating banks are expected to continue to finance viable projects from private farmers and
cooperatives. Progress under the enterprise and financial sector reform program, aided by the EFSAL,
would further reinforce the ability and willingness of the PBs to lend. The project's institutional
achievements are likely to be sustained as well.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.    Bank performance was satisfactory in all stages of the project cycle as acknowledged by the
Borrower. During project identification and preparation, the Bank was substantially involved in assisting
the Borrower's agencies in the design and development of the project; the FAO/CP participated
substantially in the preparatory stages. The main project risks - the possible effects on the subsector
from variations in implementation of the overall economic transformation and structural reform
programs, and insufficient incentives to farm and enterprise managers to carry out the required
restructuring, were identified at appraisal. However, what could not be foreseen were the resulting
discontinuities - including years of negative GDP growth and weaknesses in domestic markets - and the
sudden collapse of the CMEA market. In hindsight, however, the Bank's concept of an "integrated"
project was not matched by the project design that was adopted. Thus, while the integrated project was
to provide for increased exports, or increased value added, in quality products, through enabling greater
"vertical coordination" among primary producers and agroprocessors, the project design and
implementation arrangements did not provide for such integration (para. 5).



8
30.    The Bank carried out eight supervision missions during the implementation period of 1990 to
1995, initially at six month intervals, but later at up to annual intervals. Supervision missions were
staffed either by agricultural economists or financial analysts. The initial implementation period (1990
to 1992) was marked by some discontinuities resulting from internal Bank reorganizations and
reassignments. In respect of the credit line component, supervision focused, from the outset, on the PBs'
lending activities to final beneficiaries; more general issues relating to the PBs' overall financial
performance and operations were addressed under concurrent other Bank operations, including credit
lines to the industrial sector and a loan to the PBs themselves for undertaking modernization of their
operating systems and facilities. In regard to the institutional components, supervision was affected in
the early period of project implementation by the fragmentation of responsibility among MOA
departments, and by the fact that the component was entirely financed from donor grants, which were
subject to the particular procedures and schedules of the donor agencies. In hindsight, Bank supervision
could have been more forceful in persuading the Borrower's agencies of the need for a more coordinated
mechanism. Progress under the policy component was reviewed and discussed in detail during the
preparation and finalization of the APR in 1994-95, and under subsequent updates.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.    The Borrower's performance was satisfactory through all stages of the project cycle. MOA put
together an experienced team to work with Bank and FAO/CP staff during project preparation. While
individual departments cooperated fully with the Bank missions during supervision in supplying the
necessary information and support, overall monitoring of the institutional component was affected by the
lack of a central focal point. MOA remained unpersuaded of the need for a more coordinated approach.
Responsibility for monitoring and reporting of the credit line component was placed on the section
already set up in NBH under earlier Bank credit lines. This section remained well-staffed at all times,
with continuity, and monitoring and reporting were regular. Both MOA and NBH officials remained
accessible at all times for consultation and cooperated fully with supervision missions.
32.    The Borrower substantially complied with project financial and reporting requirements,
including timely submission of audited accounts in respect of project expenditures and the Special
Account. Compliance with several of the policy conditionalities was delayed to varying extents, but
substantially complied with by project closing.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.    The project outcome is assessed as satisfactory as the project achieved to a substantial extent its
major objectives in terms of sector policy, financial benefits, and institutional progress, albeit with
substantial delay in the case of some of the sector policy objectives. Project sustainability is likely given
the continued good progress being made by the Government in regard to its economic and structural
reform program, supported through major Bank operations such as the EFSAL and the planned PSAL,
and in its agricultural sector policy, given Hungary's desire for eventual accession into the EU.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
34.    The Borrower, NBH, has submitted a detailed contribution to the ICR, including a summary
which is included as an appendix in this report. The Hungarian agencies have not prepared a formal
forward-looking operational plan in respect of the institutional component, but have reiterated their
intention to continue to support the institutions assisted under the project.



9
35.    To the extent permitted after meeting their repayment obligations towards the Borrower (NBH),
participating banks are expected to continue to onlend the recycled funds from repayments of the first
generation of subloans for the purposes specified under the project. No follow-on project is envisaged at
this time.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.    The main lessons from the project, which may also have broader relevance for other projects,
are:
(i)  project design should be limited to achievement of a few, key, well-defined objectives,
and should be appropriately reflected at the outset in agreed implementation
arrangements; in retrospect, the project concept as an "integrated operation" was too
ambitious in relation to the project design and implementation scheme;
(ii)  policy conditionalities should be limited to a few, key actions, with a clear indication of
priorities and importance; and
(iii) special attention needs to be provided to the design and implementation arrangements
where the project's technical assistance component is financed largely from external
donor sources.






11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3229-HI)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 1 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions






13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                       Ei              mx               0                  [
Sector Policies                     :1               30
Financial Objectives                F7 
Institutional Development                             I 3                               iii
Physical Objectives                  E               E                E
Poverty Reduction                    E               E
Gender Issues                                         i                I 0zi
Other Social Objectives                              E70
Environmental Objectives             E               L                0         
Public Sector Management            L                L                L                 L
Private Sector Development          ixF -ii
Other (specify)                     I                El                                   l
B. Project Sustainability             Likelv                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                       (v')                       (s/)
Hig_hly
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (/)                        (/)
Identification                       zz
Preparation Assistance              z                        I z
Appraisal                                                    P7i
Supervision                         El                       i                          M
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(V)                      ($)                       (v')
Preparation                         z                         7I
Implementation                      i                        izi
Covenant Compliance                                                                     I 3z 
Operation (if applicable)            ai                                                 E o
Hig-hly                                            H-ighly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    _nsatisfactorv
(L)             (L)                                 Li)(



14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                      Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Grain Storage and Farm    Modernization of grain storage and on-farm      1983        Closed
Mechanization Project     equipment and facilities
2. Integrated Livestock      Modernization of production and marketing       1985        Closed
Industry Project          system for livestock and meat products
3. Crop Production           Improvement of crop production efficiency       1986        Closed
Improvement Project      through funding of improved farm machinery and
construction equipment, and rehabilitation of
liquid fertilizer plants
4. Agroprocessing            Enhancement of international competitiveness of  1988       Closed
Modernization Project     Hungarian agroprocessed exports and increasing
efficiency of production and effectiveness of
marketing of agroprocessed products
Following operations
1. Product Market            Enhancement of marketing and distribution of    1992       Ongoing
Development               food and non-food consumer goods activities
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               11/1988                  11/1988
Preparation                                             03/1989                   03/1989
Appraisal                                               06/1989                   01/1990
Negotiations                                             10/1989                  04/1990
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)
Board Presentation                                       11/1989                  06/1990
Signing                                                  12/1989               06/29/1990
Effectiveness                                                                  10/01/1990
Project Completion                                    06/20/1995               06/30/1996
Loan Closing                                          12/31/1995               06/30/1996



15
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ THOUSANDS)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94          FY95      FY96
Appraisal estimate            3,000   18,100   45,800   75,000   92,000    100,000   100,000
Actual                        4,085   52,499   78,361   86,092   89,603     92,951    99,213
Actual as % of estimate       136.2   290.0    171.1    114.8      97.4       93.0      99.2
Date of final disbursement  7/26/1996
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated            Actual
. Key implementation indicators in SAR
1.   Maintaining and monitoring its program by the Government for   By 12/31/1990  Complied partially
the reduction of investment, production and export subsidies to
the agricultural sector
2.   Reduction by the Government of all agricultural subsidies at least  By 12/31/1990  Complied
one third.
3.   Carrying out by the Government of an action plan for revising  By 12/31/191  Complied partially
the income support program for large scale farms located on poor
quality land.
4.   Submitting by the Government of a legislature draft legislation  By 12/31/1992  Complied with delay
for the revision of investment tax credits.
5.   Submitting by the Government of a draft legislation to the  By 6/30/1991   Complied
legislature providing for the assignment of ownership rights in
the net assets of cooperatives and the definition of ownership
rights in agricultural land.
6.   Adopting by the Government of the regulations for accounting  By 12/31/1991  Complied partially
purposes land as an asset with notional value.
7.   Carrying out by the Government of actions to make agricultural   By 6/30/1991  Complied with delay
land mortgageable for commercial bank loans.
8.   Liquidating by the Government of each large scale farm which is            Complied with delay
participating in the Government's 1987-90 debt reduction
program.
9.   Carrying out by the Government of an action plan for the gradual            Complied
reduction of the licenses on imports of agricultural products in
accordance with GATT negotiations.
*No formal implementation plan was agreed under the project.



16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Estimated                     Actual
Key operating indicators in SAR
1. Subprojects to have acceptable    Ranging from 15% to 40%  Borrower's estimates (based
financial rates of return (FRR)  with an average of around   on a representative sample of
31%                        subprojects) indicate a
weighted average FRR of
around 16% in real terms.
2. Net present value (NPV)       About US$145 million at a    Borrower's estimates of about
discount rate of 12%       US$186 million at a discount
rate of 12%.
*No formal operational plan was agreed under the project.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                            Purpose as defined at      Status       Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
On organization of the      To determine the lines on which    Completed   Used as an input in
extension system            extension arrangements are to be              reorganization of
established for private, small-             the extension
scale farms                                  system
On livestock-related        To identify weaknesses in the   Completed    Used as an input in
services                    existing system of livestock                 reorganization of
services and to make                        livestock-related
recommendations for                          services
improvement



17
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Item                                   Local   Foreign    Total            Local    Foreign    Total
costs     costs                    costs     costs
1. Crop Production                         22.0     52.0        74.0          22.4      28.0        50.4
2. Livestock Production                    32.0      10.0       42.0           18.5      18.3       36.8
3. Horticulture                            18.0      2.0        20.0            2.5       4.6        7.1
4. Agroprocessing & Other                  19.0    27.0         46.0           21.2      39.6       60.8
5. Trade Infrastructure                     3.0      4.0         7.0           29.1       8.7       37.8
6. Services & Training                      9.0      2.0        11.0             --       7.0        7.0
Total Baseline Costs                      103.0    97.0        200.0           93.7     106.2      199.9
Physical Contingencies                10.0     10.0        20.0            --        --          --
Price Contingencies                   39.0     15.0        54.0            --        --         --
Total                                     152.0   122.0        274.0           93.7     106.2      199.9
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate                          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                                (US$ million)
Item                   NBH/ Govem  Project                           NBH/ Govem  Project
Com-  ment  Bene- IBRD  OECD   Total    Com-  ment  Bene- IBRD  OECD   Total
mercial Contri- ficiaries                    mercial Contri- ficiarie
Banks butions                                Banks butions   s
Equipment &                54      --    36  100         --    190      35.6          28.4   99.2      --  163.2
Services 1/
Civil Works                53      --     16    --      --      69       9.9          19.8    --       --   29.7
Technical Services          --      1      --   --      14      15       --             --    --    7.0    7.0
Total                     107       1     52  100       14    274       45.5          48.2  99.2    7.0  199.9
Percentage Share          39%     1%    19%  36%       5%   100%    22.8%           24.1%  49.6%    3.5%  100.0%
1/ Includes incremental working capital and services such as business planning and marketing.



18
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Based on a sample of the most likely investments under the project, economic rates of return
(ERRs) were expected to range between 18 to 57%, averaging about 20% for crop
production, 20% for livestock, and 40% for agroprocessing subprojects.
The requirement of calculating ERRs was dropped during project implementation in
recognition of the widespread liberalization under the Government's price and trade reform
programs.
The Borrower has re-estimated financial rates of return (FRRs) for a representative sample
of subprojects. These indicate a weighted average FRR of about 16% in real terms.



19
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement Section  Covenant Present   Original
Type    Status  Fulfillment                    Description of Covenant                     Comments
Date
LA         3.01(b)     M         C                 For carrving out Part A of Project. Borrower is to make available to  Complied
the Guarantor funds under Subsidiary Loan Agreements termns and
conditions approved by the Bank.
LA         3.01(c)     M         C                 Borrower to supervise the carrying out by the Participating Banks   Complied
of their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
LA         3.02        P         C                 Procurement to be governed by Schedule 4 to the LA,         Complied
LA         4.01(b)     F         C                 Borrower to maintain satisfactory records and accounts in   Complied
accordance with sound accounting practices.
LA         4.01(b)     F         C                 Borrower to have records and accounts, including those for the  Complied
Special Account, audited not later than five months after the close
of fiscal year.
LA         4.01(c)     F         C                 Borrower to maintain appropriate records and accounts for all  Complied
expenditures for which withdrawals were made from the Special
Accounts and ensure that audit report contains a separate opinions
by the auditors.
GA         3.01        M        CD                 Guarantor to liquidate large scale farms, which participated in debt Complied with
reduction program.                                          delay
GA         3.02        E        CP    12/31/1990  Guarantor to maintain and monitor for reduction of investment,  Complied
production and export subsidies to agricultural sector within and    partially
consistent with the overall subsidy reduction program, reduce all
agricultural subsidies by at least one third.
GA         3.03        M        CP    12/31/1991  Guarantor to review mcome support program for farms on poor  Complied
quality land and revise income support program.             partially
GA         3.04        M        CP    12/31/1991  Guarantor to review the results of the implementation of     Complied
investment tax credits for the agricultural sector.         partially
GA         3.05        M         C     12/31/1992  Guarantor to adopt a plan of action for the gradual reduction of the  Complied
import licenses of agricultural products; and for the use of tariffs
on the imports of agricultural products in accordance with GATT
negotiations
GA         3.06        M        CP    12/31/1991  Guarantor to adopt regulations which require all farms on balance   Complied
sheets for accounting purposes as an asset with notional value.  partially
GA         3.07        M        CD    6/30/1991   Guarantor to submit to draft legislation the legislature providing    Complied with
for the possibility of and conditions for the assignment of  delay
ownership rights in the net assets of cooperatives and the definition
of ownership rights in agricultural land.
GA         3.08        M        CD    6/30/1991   Guarantor to make agricultural land mortgageable for commercial   Complied with
bank loans.                                                 delay -
legislation
before
Parliament
Covenant Type:                                                                      Present Status
M =Managerial                              P- Procurement                           C = covenant complied with
F Financial                                E = Economic                             CD  complied with after delay
T  Technical                                                                        CP  complied with partially
NC  not complied with



20
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(STAFF-WEEKS)
Stage of project cycle       Planned           Actual
Preparation to appraisal              --               42.9
Appraisal                             --               36.7
Negotiations through Board            --                7.3
approval
Supervision                           -                75.5
Completion                            --               10.0
Total                          --              172.4



21
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating:     Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.      Developm.  Problems3
Year   Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through appraisal          10/88      4       7        E, E, F, A        -             -           -
03/89     4       10       E, E, F,A          -            -           -
Appraisal through Board    11/89      5       18     E, E, M, R, A       -             -
approval                   02/90      1       5                          -             -           -
Supervision 1              11/90      2       10         E, F             I             I          M
Supervision II             04/91      3       10        F, R, A           I             I          M
Supervision III            10/91      2       7          E, F             I             I          M
Supervision IV             11/91      10      3        A, A, M           -             -           -
Supervision V              10/92      2      21          F, A             I             I          M
Supervision VI             10/93      2       12         E, F             I             I          M
Supervision VII            06/94      1       3           F               I             I          M
Supervision VIII           10/95      1       5           F               S            S           M
ICR Completion             07/96      1       7           F               S            S           M
I - Specialization                 2 - Key to Performance Ratings:    3 - Key to Types of Problems:
A = Agriculturist                  I = Minor problems                  F = Financial
C = Cooperative Banking Specialist  2 = Moderate problems              T = Technical
E = Economist                      3 = Major problems                  M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H= Horticulturist
L = Livestock Feed Specialist
M  Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Rural Cooperatives Specialist






Appendix A
Page 1 of 7
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3229-HU)
AIDE MEMOIRE OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
1.    A World Bank (WB) mission visited Hungary between July 3 to 10, 1996 to initiate work on the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Agricultural Exports Development Project
(IAEDP); and to review the progress of the Product Market Development Project (PMDP). This Aide
Memoire pertains to the IAEDP; a separate Aide Memoire covers the PMDP. The mission met with
representatives of the Borrower (the National Bank of Hungary - NBH); the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA); selected participating banks (PBs); and the Godollo Agricultural Institute (FMI). The mission
would like to thank the various Hungarian counterparts for all the cooperation and courtesies extended.to it.
The missions views expressed in this Aide Memoire are subject to confirmation by W1B management on the
mission's return to Washington.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.     The project objectives, as set out in the Loan and Project Summary of the relevant Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 8337-HU of May 15, 1990) were to: (a) provide quality food products for export; and (b) make
agricultural producers more efficient by providing additional financial resources to private, small scale
farmers, and by improving agrobusiness methods and practices of managers of large scale farms.
3.     To achieve these objectives, the project design included (i) a credit component in the forn of a line
of credit through eligible commercial banks to finance investments by private farmers, agricultural
enterprises and agroprocessing enterprises to improve their operations, reduce their unit costs, and increase
exports; and (ii) a technical assistance component to provide training and advisory services to private
farmers and other project beneficiaries.
OPERATIONAL PLAN
4.     The W3B's revised guidelines (April 1994) on preparation of ICRs requires the preparation of an
operational plan by the Borrower and the implementing agencies, indicating actions and measures to be
taken by the Borrower, the relevant Government agencies, and the project entities, to ensure satisfactory
future implementation and operations under the project, and the achievement of the project's objectives.
The draft operational plan should include:
* the Government's views on the continued relevance of the project's objectives;
* actions and measures to be taken to ensure sustainability and continued satisfactory operation
of institutions and technical assistance programs under the project;
* actions and measures to be taken in the case of subprojects and subborrowers facing financial
difficulties, including enterprises that continue to be under state ownership.
The operational plan should be supported by a table that indicates clearly, for each major item under the
policy, institutional, technical assistance, and credit components, the following:



Appendix A
Page 2 of 7
*  major issues/problems;
*  major actions/measures already take, being taken or to be taken;
*  schedule and timing of each major action/measure; and
* the main Government and/or project agencies responsible for the actions/measures.
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.    The Borrower's responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR are indicated in the WB's Operational
Manual Statement and Good Practices for ICR Preparation (GP 13.55 of April 1994, paras. 4 and 5).
Copies of the WB's BP 13.55 and relevant parts of GP 13.55 were given earlier to the Borrower (NBP) in
the context of the ICR for the Agroprocessing Modernization Project (Loan 2936-HU).
6.     As indicated in BP 13.55 and GP 13.55, the Borrower's ICR should include a summary not
exceeding 10 pages, together with the supporting background information and annexes.
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
7.     To enable a comparison of appraised and actual project costs and financing plans, the Borrower and
the project agencies should update the relevant tables (Tables 2 and 3 on pages 20 and 21 of the Staff
Appraisal Report No. 8337-HU of May 15, 1990).
INFORMATION TO BE SENT TO THE WORLD BANK
8.    To enable the WB to complete the draft of Part I of the ICR, it was agreed that the Borrower would
ensure that the information in relation to the credit and technical assistance components indicated in
Annexes I and 2 is sent to the WB together with the updated project costs and financing table (para. 7).
9.     For the credit component, given the large number (about 1,500) of subloans under the project, it
was agreed that the estimates of project benefits, including overall project financial rates of return, be
prepared on the basis of well-selected, representative samples of subloans by each of the PBs. Careful
consideration should be given to sample size and composition to ensure that the selected samples are truly
representative of the overall subloan population and the results can be relied upon as a reasonable basis for
extrapolation of the project impact, including net benefits. To ensure uniformity as well as independence in
evaluation, it was agreed that the Borrower, MOA and the PBs would engage an independent consulting
institution to carry out the analysis. Terms of reference (TORs) for the consultants' work are attached in
Annex 1. As the Godollo Agricultural Institute (FMI) has been engaged since the project's inception in
carrying out surveys of project beneficiaries on a sampling basis, MOA and NBH have proposed that FMI
undertake the evaluation work for the ICR as well. In view of the budgetary constraints faced by the
Hungarian state institutions, MOA and NBH have requested the mission to explore the possibilities of
supporting the work through WB trust fund grant financing. The mission undertook to look into the
possibilities.
10.    For the technical assistance component, MOA will coordinate the preparation of the assessment
report, including the operational plan for future operations. A suggested format for the assessment of each
TA component is provided in Annex2.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 7
OUTPUTS AND SCHEDULE
11.    To enable the timely submission of the final ICR, including both the Borrower's and the WB's parts,
to the WB's Board of Directors by December 31, 1996 as required, it was agreed that the following
timetable would be followed:
NBH to send the WB by October 31, 1996:
(i) the background information on the credit component, including the estimates of the FRRs,
prepared by the PBs and the consultants (see para. 9);
(ii) the updated project cost and financing tables (see para. 7)
(iii) the draft operational plan (see para. 4); and
(iv) the assessment notes for each of the technical assistance components (see para. 10).
COORDINATION OF ICR PREPARATION
12.    The following persons would coordinate the preparation of the Borrower's and the WB's
preparation of the ICR:
For the Borrower:   NBH - Ms. Eva Tarjan
Mmes. Tunde Vertes and Maria Deak
MOA - Mr. Istvan Banati
Ms. Zsuzsa Fulop
For the World Bank: Mr. Kishore Nadkami
Budapest/Washington, D.C.
July 10, 1996/August 8, 1996



Appendix A
Page 4 of 7
SUBPROJECT INFORMATION SUMMARY TO BE SUBMITTED
FOR EACH SUBPROJECT
PART I. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Name of Investing Enterprise:
Location:
Type of Ownership: majority state-owned/cooperative/majority private-owned
Type of Organization: state enterprise, joint stock company, limited liability company, etc.
Main Activities of Investing Enterprise:
Short Description of Subprojects: e.g. new facility/expansion/diversification for production of (name of
product) of which ... percent aimed at exports to convertible currency markets (if applicable).
Subloan Information:
*  name of participating bank
*  date of subloan approval by participating bank
*  amount of subloan (US$ equivalent)
*  maturities, grace period
*  interest rate charged by participating bank
*  date of first repayment of subloan principal
*  are interest/principal payments current -- indicate extent of arrears, defaults, rescheduling, etc., if
applicable
Subproject Completion/Expected Completion Date: month/year
PART II. PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Subproject Performance:
Appraisal       Actual/Current Estimate
(in US$)
*  incremental sales
*  incremental exports to CC markets
*  incremental employment (in nos.)
Appraisal   Actual    AppraisalActual
(in HUE)             (in US equiv.)
* civil works
* machinery & equipment
*  incremental working capital
*  other
Total subproject cost



Appendix A
Page 5 of 7
Subproject Financing:
Appraisal        Actual
*  investors' own funds
* local loans
*  World Bank subloan
*  other foreign loans
Total subproject financing
Subproject Financial Rate of Return:
Appraisal        Current Estimate



Appendix A
Page 6 of 7
Annex 1: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
INTRODUCTION
1.    The World Bank (WB) had made a loan of US$100 million equivalent in 1990 to the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH) for the above project. The loan closed on June 30, 1996. It is the practice of the WB to agree
with the Borrower that, after the project is completed and the loan closed, an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) be prepared within six months of the loan's closing that assesses the experience under the loan, including
whether and to what extent the project's objectives were met. This includes an assessment of the financial and
economic impact of the project, including subproject and subloan performance.
2.     To assist in the preparation of the assessment, NBH and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) wish to
engage the services of qualified, experienced, independent consultants. Terms of reference for the consultant's
work are provided below.
OBJECTIVES
3.     The consultants are expected to assist NBH, MOA and the participating banks (PBs) in making a
realistic assessment of the financial and economic impact of the credit component of the project in terms of
evaluating subproject and subloan performance, and making estimates of the overall financial rate of return for
the project as a whole, based on underlying estimates for a representative sample of subprojects, chosen with the
assistance of the PBs.
METHODOLOGY
4.    In view of the large number (about 1,500) of subloans, the PBs have agreed to choose a representative
sample of subprojects. The selected samples should be adequately representative of the total population of
subloans so that they can be used as a reasonable basis for extrapolating the development impact, including the
net benefits of the project investments. The consultants should review with the PBs and NBH the samples
provided by the PBs in regard to their representativeness, taking into account relevant factors such as
performance (including well-performing as well as problem subprojects), sectoral composition, ownership
characteristics, etc.
5.    Financial rates of return (FRR) should be calculated for each of the sample subprojects. Guidelines as to
preparation of FRRs will be provided by the WB mission through the NBH. The consultants should use their
judgment as to the need for field visits to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the information. Wherever
possible, crosschecking should be done to ensure that the financial and economic information provided for the
calculation of the subproject benefits and performance are realistic and consistent.
6.     To respect the confidentiality of information, as well as to encourage the preparation of truly
representative samples, it was agreed that the consultants' assure the PBs as well as the individual subborrowers
that they would not be identified by name in the consultants' report when presenting their analysis. Both the PBs
as well as subborrowers/subprojects would be coded by number for presentational purposes.
OUTPUTS AND SCHEDULE
7.     The consultants' draft report in Hungarian, including all the analysis as above, should be submitted to
NBH and MOA by October 15, 1996. The final report would be prepared after comments by the Hungarian
entities (NBH, MOA and the PBs) and the WB.



Appendix A
Page 7 of 7
Annex 2: SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR ASSESSMENT OF EACH OF THE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENTS
Objectives of Component
Design Experience
* what problems, if any, were encountered?
* what changes were made as a result?
Implementation Experience
* was implementation as expected?
* if not, what problems were experienced?
* what steps were taken to improve/correct the situation?
* lessons learned form the experience?
Results/Outcome
* what was the impact of the technical assistance?
* who benefited? to what extent?
* to what extent were the objectives achieved?
Future Relevance/Sustainability
* do the objectives continue to be relevant?
- if not, what should be changed?
* if relevant, what is being done to ensure sustainability of the institutions and programs created so
that they can continue to yield benefits?
Operational Plan
* what is the Government's operational plan to ensure sustainability and successful future
operations of the component?
* which agencies are responsible for what actions, and according to what time schedule?
* what performance indicators would be used to measure continued good performance and
progress?
* what arrangements would be made for future monitoring?
Budapest/Washington, D. C.
July 10, 1996/August 8, 1996






Appendix B
Page 1 of 5
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR'
(Prepared Jointly by the Ministry ofAgriculture and the National Bank of Hungary)
INTRODUCTION
1.    Since the lending of the World Bank in Hungary started in 1983, the activity has focused
on supporting the economic restructuring progress and on increasing the efficiency, the flexibility,
the market respondence and competitiveness of the economy in external markets. During the
activity of the World Bank in Hungary in the agricultural sector, the Integrated Agricultural Export
Project was preceded by Bank operations to improve efficiency and competitiveness in grain
production and storage mechanization by the Grain Storage and Mechanization Project, in
livestock and meat processing by the Integrated Livestock and Processing Project, in crop
production by the Crop Production Development Project, in agricultural processing by the
Agroprocessing Modernization Project. The objectives of the Integrated Agricultural Export
Project (IAEP) were to improve agricultural production and marketing of agricultural products and
related services. The IAEP was followed by the Product Market Development Project which helps
the marketing and distribution of the food and non-food consumer products.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
2.     Objectives. The objectives of the Integrated Agricultural Export Project were to (a) give
incentives to the business activity of the private small scale sector and modernize large scale farms;
(b) increase earnings and export capacity of agriculture by restructuring the production and
increasing the efficiency; (c) reorganize the assets of large scale farms by helping to lease or sell
them to private farmers organized in groups or as individuals; (d) provide investment and working
capital for improvement of the production-processing-marketing system; (e) improve rural services;
(f) strengthen the financial system, meet the financing needs of the new farmers in the transitional
process of the sector, extend the creditworthiness of agricultural cooperatives and private small
scale farms by establishing land mortgage; (g) promote new private farmers as clients for
commercial banks. (Paragraph 1)
3.     Components. The main components of the project were (a) an IBRD credit line in the
amount of USD 100 million equivalent (i) to procure machinery and equipment for the
improvement of crop and livestock production, including construction materials and equipment for
buildings for crop and livestock production; (ii) to improve non-agricultural activities of
agricultural enterprises (services and manufacturing); (iii) to improve storage and commodity
handling facilities; (iv) to improve small scale agroprocessing activities; (v) marketing and sales
promotion; (vi) to support the rural entrepreneurs engaged in agricultural, agroprocessing and
service activities or in village tourism; and (b) an institutional component to establish and develop
an institutional system for supporting the improvement of agricultural production, agroprocessing,
marketing and rural services including the development of (i) marketing schemes for agricultural
Summary as prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Bank of Hungary; the
references to para numbers are the paras in the main report of the Borrower's contribution, kept in
Project Files.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 5
and agroindustrial products; (ii) commodity exchange; (iii) market information system; (iv)
subsector interprofessional marketing organizations; (v) agricultural insurance scheme; (vi)
training farm managers in business planning and marketing; (vii) local consultant services for
business planning; (viii) training of private farmers; (ix) professional consultancy services for
private farmers; (x) livestock advisory services.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.     Achievement of Objectives.  When the project was launched in 1990 the political,
economic and social transformation had already started which radically changed the objectives of
the World Bank projects compared to the previous ones. While the characteristic objectives were
the investments for improving the level of production, increasing the efficiency and external
competitiveness on the basis of large scale farms this project primarily aimed at supporting small
and medium sized enterprises and privatization process, naturally maintaining the objectives of
increasing efficiency and competitiveness. The project played an important role in the launching of
rural development by enlarging the scope of final beneficiaries in the period when the output of the
Hungarian economy declined considerably, the financial reserves were decreased, domestic sources
were inadequate and unemployment increased. Due to the transformation of the cooperative sector
and the rehabilitation process considerable number of new, small and medium sized enterprises
were started. Under these circumstances the project approved by the World Bank had an important
role in the implementation of the macroeconomic goals, the acceleration of the privatization process
and the establishment of the small and medium sized enterprise sector. (Paragraphs 7-9)
5.     The majority (74.2%) of the subloans under the project was extended to investments of
private individuals and private enterprises, the smaller part to cooperatives and in majority state
owned large scale farns. During the implementation period of the project the macroeconomic
importance of the agriculture changed. The agriculture represented 17% of the GDP in 1990 and
only 8.9% in 1995. (The contribution of the agroprocessing industry to the GDP decreased from
4.2% to 3.8%). The number of unemployed people increased considerably in agricultural areas.
The project provided investment sources for the rural population which was forced to start
business to be able to establish new existence and become entrepreneurs from employees. One of
the most important economic impacts is that the proportion of the service activities related to the
rural sector increased. The agricultural processing represents 24.5%, the services 21.4% of the
total number of subloan contracts. However, the ratios of crop production (24.9%), horticulture
(6.1%) and livestock production (23.1%) show that the traditional agricultural activities also
remained important. In case of newly established enterprises the capacities created by investments
are mainly used for fulfilling regional needs. In the majority of cases the technical-technological
level of investments is medium which meets the objectives of the project and the requirements set
by the rural consumer market. Due to economical reasons the investors procured less expensive
technologies which require in many cases more handwork.
6.    Investments in crop production are characterized by investments in machinery completed
by enterprises with longer business practice (cooperatives, state farms and their successor
enterprises). In many cases due to the use of more simple buildings and technologies the livestock
became more extensive in order to make production less expensive with smaller number of animals.
To a smaller extent the investments implemented the most updated technologies. Investments
related to rural tourism are the most important within the development of rural services. Frequent
objective of investments in services was to build bakeries and breweries. The bakeries competed
successfully for the markets of the collapsing state baking industry, providing customers with



Appendix B
Page 3 of 5
higher level of quality as well as with wider range of products. The financial objectives of the
project were virtually accomplished. The most important element of the objectives was the
development of the private sector. The conditions for small and medium sized private enterprises
did not include requirements of direct export. However, smaller part of the enterprises produce
exportable products and sell them on foreign markets. (Paragraphs 10- 16)
7.     The requirement of increase in efficiency is generally accomplished. The enterprises in
competitive market situation improved cost efficiency and reduced unit costs by the rationalization
of production. In case of processing factories the input market supply competition increased which
has an important role in price regulation and at the same time the market harmonization mechanism
is developing which takes an effective part in setting the price level of local markets. The
monopoly of big companies generally ceased to exist therefore product organizations and naturally
wholesale markets and commodity exchange play significant role in market regulations. At the
same time the state subsidy system, which through guaranteed prices and export subsidies played
market regulative role, also has influence on the structure of domestic prices. (Paragraphs 17-19)
8.     The 1446 subloan contracts concluded under the project virtually used up the USD 100
million creditline. More than 70% of the subloan contracts were concluded with individuals or
newly established private enterprises. The average total investment cost was HUF 12.1 million,
out of which the credit amounted to HUF 8 million. Out of which HUF 6.1 million was financed
from World Bank, HUF 1.8 million from intemal investment sources and HUF 1.1 million
represented working capital loan. The commercial banks' averages of investments financed varied
between HUF 1 and 80.6 million. At the majority of participating commnercial banks the average
investments amount to about HUF 11-13 million, out of which HUF 0.6-14.6 million was financed
from World Bank and HUF 0.3-15 million from internal investment sources and up to HUF 5
million represented working capital loan. The remaining part was covered by the beneficiaries'
own sources. 45.9% of the subloan contracts was concluded with individuals (small farmers and
individual entrepreneurs), 28.3% with private enterprises, 23% with cooperatives and 2.8% with
state farms.  The proportion of large scale farms significantly decreased under the project
compared to former World Bank projects. The average loan amount is higher in case of enterprises
and large scale farms. The breakdown of loan amounts by subprojects is different. 32.9% of
World Bank subloans were utilized for the development of crop production, 18.5% for livestock,
24.4% for food processing, 24.2% for services. (Paragraphs 20-27)
9.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. During the implementation of the project several
factors had unfavorable impact on the success of investments carried out in accordance with the
objectives of the project. The collapse of CMEA markets and later the liquidation of the
organization itself considerably destroyed sales positions in export markets. The 30% decrease of
intemal consumption narrowed the intemal market potential.  The embargo against Small-
Yugoslavia considerably damaged the extemal market situation of the country. The Yugoslav war
and the German unification had perceptively unfavorable impacts on rural tourism. As part of the
social transformation process started in 1989-90, the democratic Parliament and the Govemrnment in
1990 launched a restructuring program which had significant social impacts. The demolition of
state property, the privatization caused substantial increase in the number of small and medium
sized enterprises. During the restructuring of cooperatives and under the Compensation scheme
hundred thousands of people became owners of some land suitable for agricultural activity.
During the livestock was halved, yields decreased etc. In order to increase the creditworthiness of
private farms the Government established from budget and PHARE sources the Foundation for
Credit Guarantee of Agricultural Enterprise, which - considering its importance - gives partial



Appendix B
Page 4 of 5
guarantee opportunities primarily for private farmers for commercial bank collateral. This was an
important element of the increase of bank confidence in new private entrepreneurs with less
collateral assets. The set of Government actions gave incentives to financing the establishment of
private enterprises by commercial banks. The credit losses due to forced pace of transformation
were partially taken over by the state under the bank consolidation scheme. (Paragraphs 28-35)
10.    Bank and Borrower Performance.  The performance of the World Bank during the
implementation of the project was satisfactory.  The World Bank, in cooperation with the
Hungarian counterparts, had a significant role in the establishment and preparation of project
objectives and implementation.  The World Bank experts and consultants gave substantial
assistance and guidelines to the Hungarian experts during the planning and elaboration of the
project. The selection of the project objectives corresponded to the objectives set during the
Hungarian economic change and helped their realization on the preferential areas of the project
(development of crop production, livestock, processing activity and rural service sector). The
project appraised properly the institutional changes required during the economic restructuring.
The World Bank was flexible in solving the problems cropped up during the project. In order to
close the project financially successfully the World Bank approved to amend the Closing Date for
the project from December 31, 1995 to June 30, 1996. The performance of the Borrower was
satisfactory during the whole life of the project. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) carried out
the project preparation successfully, harnonized the preparation of market studies and financial
analyses which formed the basis for the World Bank SAR. During the project the MOA in
cooperation with the PHARE Office coordinated the implementation of the institutional part of the
project and commissioned the FMMI to continuously monitor the implementation of the project and
to carry out follow-up studies based on representative sample for the consequent years. The
representatives of NBH and MOA were always available for discussions and cooperation for the
World Bank delegations during Supervision missions. The Borrower always performed reporting
requirements. (Paragraphs 39-45)
l1.   Assessment of Project Outcome.  The outcome of the project is satisfactory.  The
objectives were achieved or are to be achieved soon. The economic-social changes started in 1990
created favorable conditions for business activities. Most of the macroeconomic processes which
accompanied the changes helped the achievement of project objectives the accomplishment of
privatization, the spread of small and medium sized enterprises, the realization of their economic
stability and the appearance of new entrepreneurial classes in agriculture, processing industry and
rural services. The development of the institutional system - in accordance with the SAR - was
executed. The legal preparation of land mortgage is under way. The marketing system of
agricultural products developed considerably under the project, the Commodity Exchange is
operating, the network of wholesale markets developed, new wholesale markets were built and are
being built. For rapid and up-to-date evaluation of market tendencies the Market Information
System (MIS) was developed, which is operated by the Institute for Agricultural Research and
Information (AKII). The conditions for practical training were improved in the secondary and
higher education institutions. The state subsidized consulting services and their information system
were developed for the purposes of professional assistance for small and medium sized enterprises.
For evaluation and analysis of the financial and economic results of enterprises the Financial
Accounting System (FAS) was elaborated, which is also operated by AKII. The product
organizations were established as a part of the institutional system development. (Paragraph 46-47)



Appendix B
Page 5 of 5
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AN1D FUTURE OPERATIONS
12.    The conditions of project sustainability are favorable. The privatization of the Hungarian
agricultural sector is virtually completed. The economic weight of small and medium sized
enterprises is already significant, the proportion of the GDP produced by them is expected to
increase. At the same time the concentration of capital is required in this sector in order to reach
viable economic size which can increase their efficiency and competitiveness.  Hungary's
association efforts indicate that the beneficiaries of the project have to adjust themselves to be
measured on a big integrated market, much harder competition and increasing quality requirements.
The project played an important role in the development of agricultural market mechanism and the
implementation of a new institutional system which resulted in increased flexibility. The majority
of borrowers intend to continue successfully with business activity, and execute the objectives and
meet the requirements. No specific plan was prepared for future operation of the project due to its
characteristics. (Paragraphs 36-38 and 48-51)
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
13.    The key lessons learned are the following (according to the summary of paragraph 52).
a) the development of agricultural production is successful when it is carried out as part
of the integrated rural development, including the total agricultural sector, by
harmonized, proportional development of input-output service sectors;
b) to continue restructuring, to modernize production and the structure of products,
produce quality products, control the quality of the total production process are
inevitable conditions for the increase in competitiveness;
c) the reliable planning and operation of enterprise are very difficult when market
conditions are less developed, inflation is high and taxes change continuously,
d) the newly established, less experienced commercial banks learned the practice of
lending and assistance to successful enterprise operation; and
e) during the implementation of the project creditlines with more favorable interest rate
slowed down the utilization of the project.






BRD 28664
2'I
16                                                                         HUNGARY                                                             26                                                                      22
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL                                                                                        ,.__.                              \                                U
EXPORT PROJECT                                                                              /                   -   d,oe                                  4
-       MOTORWAYS                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                        SLOVAK           R ET.J PSo25ioiA,eIy*
MAIN ROADS              COUNTY (MEGYE) CAPITALS-                                   RP              '
-      RAILROADS            0   OTHER MA OR CITIES
-    CANALS               -    COUNTY (MEGYE) ROUNDARIES                                                                                                     K,-d.
RIVERS                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
4~~~~~~~~s:6              .                                   ,.1 SjPIe ano; h~obopCoaIMges:u },~  ;+//:MsoiPoo,yA 
J,8                                     ro vlenn * t  >  s                                                                           S=IgolarlL 'I.<                    jL                  S i        rlszeoseoX        _   -- 91 . oj
4'  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
rvenoo ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    24r'- \  <~                                  N    o,orJo-                                             M.zo&oo.,b j  d\ 1
A  U 5 T R | A = 11~~~~~~o~                           .      >              .  ,   -r  -- - Mo-
r->-~~~~~~~~~~~ 0    -    '                               SZTFC<CI   < -J0          '4  ;b Dyoo , o,     QA/rDbe 
5j       F'                      A       ,A                        M'  Nn  Y-Sv '                                     "*
AUSTRIA                    -              Cio,*                     ROMA N IA
4.-    -- A                                                                                                                                                                                                N6,'ruo,o.. VrnrsB = += 4  s bo* 1  . ovi
2                J,/                                                                  _ ''%  T\tcbonvn~               ! Bd  LRZO ;2 ?                               ERAE           Debr.en CTwb-
7"~ ~~                  ' NeaO .Id,oI                 ,- r-                                                  'A               /     See        Mi                                ~                    /ba^N           oA       <_
r0 $< \                                                                                                                                                                                        r-                   ROMANIA
60.0. ~~~~~~~~~    A.2pl
A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                          -rH ~~~~~~~~~~~FE:Z        DuP upor
.-. ~      ~            ~           ~           \ 'I.                       -.                               E.RP.O              U OLVA                                                         ,7                             :w     'jaLA        ;
SLOVENIA   ..e-.                                                                                              2                                                                    ,Too~22'
O      1O  N'Okn., 30                                                                                                                                                                                                 ___0 0_0_____________________________(S______TNERO  >  *   .   >   ~X,.--X,
CROATIA 10  20       1O7O                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
?   1-: 20   30-                                                                    .     -T-ERHo FED.osREP.I-,OF6,YUKGOSLLAVIAI
is                                                 20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------ ----- ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ -                 6~~      









IMAGING
Report No.:          16491
Type:      ICR



