Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19375
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT No. 2183 - CE
June 21, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal year, 1990       US$1.00       =      Rs 40.0 (at appraisal)
Mid term review, 1994      US$1.00       =      Rs 49.4 (annual average)
Completion year, 1998      US$1.00       =      Rs 64.6 (annual average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -      Asian Development Bank
CATB         -      Cabinet Appointed Tender Board
CM&C         -      Construction Management and Contracts
EDCF         -      Economic Development Cooperation Fund (Korea)
GOSL         -      Government of Sri Lanka
ICTAD        -      Institute for Construction Training and Development
INC-CPT             Inter-Ministerial Committee for Coordination and Planning of
Transport
MHIH&SS      -      Ministry of Health, Highways, and Social Services
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
MPPI         -      Ministry of Planning and Policy Implementation
MTH          -      Ministry of Transport and Highways
NTC          -      National Transport Commission
NMT          -      Non-Motorized Transport
OECF         -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
ODA          -      Overseas Development Administration
PC            -     Provincial Council
PMMU         -      Project Management and Monitoring Unit (of RDA)
RCDC          -     Road Construction and Development Company
RDA          -      Road Development Authority
RDC          -      Resources Development Consultants Ltd.
SEC          -      State Engineering Corporation
SD&CC        -      State Development and Construction Corporation
SLR          -      Sri Lanka Railways
SWKP         -      Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners
TEC          -      Technical Evaluation Comunittee
TSPC         -      Transport Studies and Planning Centre
TSSS         -      Transport Sector Strategy Study
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President            Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director          Mariana Todorova
Sector Director           Frannie Humplick
Team Leader               Juan Gaviria
Task Team Leader          Jaswant Channe



iii
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................2
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................................ 6
A - BACKGROUND ................................................................                                                                     7
B  - PROJECT OBJECTIVES ................................................................8
C  - ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................................                                                      9
D  - MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...............................................................                                           12
E  - PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................................1 2
F - IDA PERFORMANCE ...............................................................                                                               14
G - BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...............................................................                                                           16
H - ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...............................................................                                                          17
I - FUTURE OPERATION ...............................................................                                                              18
J - KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................................                                                            19
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEX ...............................................................                                                           20
TABLE  1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...............................................................                                                  21
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...............................................................                                               22
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ...............................................................                                                        24
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............................................. 25
TABLES 5 AND 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION .............................. 26
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...............................................................                                              27
TABLE 8A, PART 1  - PROJECT COSTS IN US  $ ...............................................................                                        28
TABLE 8A, PART 2  - PROJECT COSTS IN SL  Rs ...............................................................                                       29
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ...............................................................                                                       30
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...............................................................                                              31
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...............................................................                                               33
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ....................................................... 34
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS ...............................................................                                           35
TABLE  13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...............................................................                                               36
ANNEXES
A. MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
B. ROAD DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR, (INCLUDING OPERATIONAL PLAN)
C. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
D. MAP IBRD NO. 30311
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(Credit 2183 - CE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Roads Project in Sri Lanka, for
which credit 2183-CE in the amount of SDR 30.6 million (US$42.5 million) received Board
approval on November 6, 1990 and was made effective on February 21, 1991.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1998. Final disbursement was made on June 2, 1999. A balance of approximately SDR 235,000
(US$316,095.14) is remaining in the special account and will be refunded. After this refund is
received a balance of approximately SDR 3.5 million (US$4.7 million), or 11.4% of the original
amount, is expected to be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by William Denning for the South Asia Region and reviewed by Juan
Gaviria, Team Leader, and Jaswant Channe, Task Leader. The Borrower provided comments that
were incorporated and are included as Annex B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was started during IDA' s final supervision/completion mission, November
11-24, 1998. It is also based on material in the project file, discussions with IDA staff, including
input from Brendan Kennedy, Consultant, and periodic management reports prepared by the
Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by: (a) providing views
reflected in the completion mission's Aide M6moire (Annex A), (b) preparing their own evaluation
of the project's execution (Annex B), (c) preparing an economic re-evaluation (Annex C), (d)
commenting on the draft ICR, and (e) participating in a stakeholders' workshop held on May 19,
1999 in Colombo.



2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(Credit 2183 - CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Third Roads Project was a follow up to previous IDA lending operations in the sector.
The project funded road rehabilitation and bridge reconstruction civil works which were a priority
to fill in gaps in the strategic highway network. The project was a traditional road rehabilitation
operation; it focused mainly on physical achievements with some institutional development
objectives.
Project Obiectives
2.    The project's objectives were to: (a) reduce road transport cost and delays for passengers
and goods by restoring major trunk roads to better operational condition, (b) help restore priority
road infrastructure damaged by flooding and landslides in May/June 1989, (c) enhance
institutional capabilities to increase the quality and extent of road maintenance and rehabilitation,
and (d) upgrade the Road Development Authority's (RDA) capacity to supervise and execute
rehabilitation works and to identify actions needed to develop the local road contracting industry.
3.    The project's overall scope took into account the availability of resources for counterpart
financing and the limited absorptive capacity of the implementing agency. The benefits of the
project were expected to be distributed widely among all segments of the population. The project
was expected to support private sector involvement in the road sector through assistance to the
local contracting industry. The objectives were straightforward, in line with the country's needs,
and supported IDA strategy in the highway subsector at appraisal. The project components were
directly linked to the project objectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The overall rating of the project is satisfactory. The objectives to reduce road transport
costs and delays, and to help restore road infrastructure damaged by flooding were met by the
physical achievements of the project. The main physical objectives were substantially met after
some delays. Of 417 km of roads initially appraised, 387 km were contracted and 310 km were
completed. Of this 310 kni, 92 km were completed with funding from Economic Development and
Cooperation Fund (EDCF - Korea). From a total of 19 bridges, 13 were completed. RDA is
currently completing the outstanding works using its own resources. Even though the completed
construction was less than appraised and less than awarded, the economic rates of return expected
by the road investments were achieved or exceeded.
5.    The project's institutional development objectives (paragraph 2 above) were only partially
achieved. These included:
* strengthening of RDA's administration of projects,
* improvement of RDA's highway and bridge design standards, manuals, and procedures, and
* support of the local consulting and contracting industries through their direct involvement
in the project.



3
improvement of the technical skills of some of RDA's engineers through secondment to
supervision consultants,
6.    RDA's project management and administrative capabilities were improved under the
project through the establishment of a Project Management and Monitoring Unit (PMMU) in RDA
initially staffed with consultants. PMMU has been successfully operating with only RDA staff
since April 1997. RDA has now expanded the responsibilities of the PMMU to include managing
and administering all foreign-aided development projects in the highway subsector.
7.    The project's Technical Assistance component was focused on improving road user
revenues, the local construction industry, and maintenance standards and design. A Road User
Charges Study investigated the benefits received by, and charges currently levied upon, the
different types of road users and recomnmended increases in user fees for two types of user.
Because of their macroeconomic implications, the study recommendations were referred to
MOF/Planning, but implementation of the recommendations has not taken place, and the matter
still rests with MOF.
8.    A domestic Construction Industry Study was satisfactorily completed by the Institute for
Construction Training and Development (ICTAD). The recommendations on resolving
contracting difficulties in Sri Lanka were endorsed by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and
implemented by RDA and ICTAD with the assistance of the Contractors' Association. The local
civil engineering and construction industry has benefited as a result. A Materials, Highway and
Bridge Design Study resulted in RDA publishing and disseminating manuals for: highway
geometric and pavement design appropriate to Sri Lankan conditions; bridge design; bridge
construction; bridge maintenance; and standards for road construction; rehabilitation; and
maintenance, including amendments to legal standards.
9.    The development of the local contracting industry received a boost under the project even
though some local contractors did not perform well. Following the completion of the construction
industry study, agreement was reached among RDA, ICTAD and IDA on the participation of local
contractors in the road and bridge rehabilitation program. Most of these contractors satisfactorily
completed their works and gained considerable experience in future contracting work.
10.   Project implementation was affected by three major factors. (1) Timeliness of decision
making. The lengthy GOSL procedures for clearance of standard contract documentation, tender
evaluation, and contract award caused major delays in project implementation. There were also
delays in obtaining the necessary quarrying licenses despite the active support of RDA. (2)
Inexperience of local contractors. Mobilization by some local contractors was slowed by their
inadequate financial management and experience. Advance payments were not always managed
well, leading to cash flow problems in the early stages of the contract. (3) Inexperience of
international contractor. One contractor and one contract accounted for the bulk of the problems
in this project. This may have been exacerbated by the contractor's inexperience in road
construction relative to other types of civil engineering. Weak pre-qualification screening may
also have contributed to this situation.
Summary of Findin2s, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   As stated above, the overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. This rating is based
on the satisfactory, if partial, achievement of the physical objectives; achieving or surpassing the
economic rates of return (ERRs) expected at appraisal; on the improved institutional capacity of
the RDA; and the development of the local contracting industry. The overall ERR expected at
appraisal was 33%; the re-evaluated overall ERR is 52%. The project would have been highly



4
satisfactory if better project management for road contract WB3/3 had resulted in problems being
acted upon in time to have an alternate contractor complete the proposed works.
12.   Overall sustainability is uncertain. GOSL has recognized the benefits of better road
maintenance and has been increasing the appropriate budget (RDA's budget is supplied from
GOSL general revenue). Also on the positive side, the RDA' s commitment of resources for
maintenance has improved during the course of the project. There has been a steady trend to
higher expenditures on maintenance in real terms. On the other hand, it is still not clear that
spending is sufficient to guarantee sustainability of the road system. The fact that
recommendations for road user charges have not been implemented (paragraph 7 above) is a
further impediment to sustainable financing of road maintenance.
13.   IDA performance in project identification was found to be satisfactory. The project was a
continuation of earlier road development projects supported by IDA. Preparation assistance was
satisfactory. During project preparation an effort was made to make better use of local
consultants, backed up by international consultants, to establish the details of the investments
required. The appraisal work was satisfactory. IDA supervision of the project and progress
reporting was satisfactory, and the performance ratings were appropriate. The slow progress in the
execution of the contracts and the control of costs were the main concerns of IDA's supervision
missions. The delays in the execution resulted mainly from the unsatisfactory performance of one
of the two expatriate contractors and from the inexperience of most of the local contractors.
14.    Overall the Borrower's project identification and preparation activities were satisfactory.
The performance of the Borrower in implementing the project was generally satisfactory.
Expatriate consultants in joint venture with a local consultant assisted RDA in the supervision of
road works. Their performance was less than satisfactory on occasion. Local consultants were
involved in the design of road works and performed satisfactorily.
15.   Compliance with project covenants was satisfactory. The Borrower's actions in project
operation have been satisfactory. RDA has supported PMMU with adequate staffing and
resources since April 1997, and PMMU is, in its present form, sustainable.
16.   In support of IDA's Transport Sector Strategy, future IDA involvement in the sector
should address institutional change and policy reform of RDA. This should assist RDA to move
from a public oriented to a mixed model agency, to improve the efficiency of management of
strategic needs and improve human resource development. RDA has developed a priority
investment plan for the next decade which requires substantial resources for development and
maintenance. District Plans are under development. Since GOSL will not be able to substantially
increase the budget for roads, it will be necessary to (a) increase the efficiency of expenditures, (b)
identify new sources of financing, (c) attract private investment to complement public sector
investment, and (d) increase attention to sustainable and effective maintenance.
17.   Future investments in the highway sector must balance maintenance with upgrading of
strategic roads to provide additional road capacity. Past IDA projects have been concerned mainly
with the physical rehabilitation of road pavements only. No realignment improvements or new
alignments have been built, and no substantial increase in road capacity has been provided.
18.   With the recent devolution of 15,300 km of roads to the Provincial level and the gradual
emergence of road agencies for these subnational levels of government, there is an opportunity for
RDA and external funding agencies to assist the newer agencies in developing their maintenance*
capability, including identification of sustainable maintenance funding sources. The devolution
allows RDA to focus more clearly on the strategic network and increases the responsibility of the
Provinces for the local road network. If well managed, devolution will enhance efficiency of
expenditures.



5
19.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows (the paragraph numbers below
refer to Part I - Project Implementation Assessment):
*  Institutional reform is needed to enable RDA to move from a public oriented agency to a
mixed agency and should: (a) improve efficiency through outsourcing of maintenance to
contractors, (b) incorporate information technology in road management, (c) create an
owner/provider model, (d) develop environmental and social safeguards in road development
and maintenance, and (e) streamline management and decision-making. External financing
agencies will play a major role in supporting RDA in the reform process as part of road sector
lending. The availability of large external aided support, with limited conditionality, for new
road development is a factor to take into consideration. Any future road sector lending should
be preceded by a dialogue on reform with GOSL, RDA, and other major donors (paragraphs
28, 30, 56, 66).
*  GOSL should empower the Tender Committee and a revise the clearance procedures for the
approval of bid documents to ensure timely contract awards. This could minimize project
delays and improve decision-making (paragraphs 30, 56, 60).
*  During project design greater attention should be placed on: (a) planning and prioritization of
investments, (b) holistic design to address safety issues, environment, and social safeguards,
(c) monitoring and evaluation systems including performance indicators, and (d) sustainability,
including funding and mechanisms for road safety. Appropriate design and standards,
including attention to resettlement, environment, and alignment considerations, are critical to
achieve efficient and effective results in construction and maintenance (paragraphs 42, 60, 69,
70, 71).
*  Support for local contractors needs to be improved, especially when fostering development of
a new set of private sector companies. The lack of adequate working capital resulting from
inexperience in financial management delayed several contractors (paragraphs 27, 31).
Consideration should be given to a more comprehensive development program for the private
construction sector as a whole, including more than simply updating government standards.
There is also a need to have an adequate stream of on-going construction contracting, to
provide the newly created industry with a steady supply of work (paragraph 40).
*  Decentralization of responsibility for the road network - if not well orchestrated - is likely to
have an adverse effect on the sustainability of the strategic road network and the smooth
functioning of road transport (paragraphs 38, 39, 68).
*  To ensure sustainable financing of road maintenance, it is critical to implement reforms in the
road user charging system (paragraphs 22, 41, 62).
*  Bridge opening delays have a major effect on users by creating prolonged traffic bottlenecks at
key locations. The economic analysis done at appraisal should explicitly consider the costs of
delayed bridge construction in its risk assessment. The appraisal should also consider the
potential for bridge construction delays in its treatment of risk mitigation and should include
alternative designs (paragraph 14).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT 2183 - CE
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT



7
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2183 - CE)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A - Background
1.    GOSL' s development strategy has focused on export-oriented and private-sector led
growth, without sacrificing the environment or quality of life. The country's growth strategies
have also sought to ensure that the poor are included by providing access to services and
employment. The transport sector has traditionally had a critical role to play in achieving these
goals, especially the road system, which is the main artery of the island's economy.
2.    The country has an extensive and well-developed road network which evolved during the
last century to serve the island's plantations. Almost every part of the country is accessible by a
road system of 97,000 km. The national trunk road system (Class A and B roads), under the
responsibility of RDA, consists of 11,000 km of paved roads (11 % of the total). Provincial
Councils account for another 15,300 km (16%), while local governments and specialized agencies
account for the remaining 71,000 km (73%). A road condition survey carried out in 1996 indicates
only 10% of the national trunk roads had a roughness of less than 5,000 mm/km (i.e. fair quality).
This compares to 51% in a similar survey carried out in 1986, indicating a substantial decline in
quality over this period. The road sector is by far the country's most important mode of transport
and accounts for over 95% of annual passenger km and for 95% of freight tonne-km.
3.    The road sector faces significant problems. Although the network covers the country, it is
in a state of serious disrepair. Historically, inadequate maintenance expenditures have been made
worse in the face of high population growth, rapid urbanization and slow economic development.
The short-term concern is to reduce the maintenance backlog by increasing the recurrent
maintenance allocations, improving expenditure efficiency, reducing project completion time, and
increasingly outsourcing road maintenance to contractors.
4.    Development of an efficient transport sector has long been a GOSL objective, which IDA
has encouraged. IDA has had five operations in the road sector. The first credit for a highway
project was approved by IDA in 1968, but was cancelled, as GOSL wanted to change the project
approach and scope. The next lending operation was in 1979, when IDA approved the first Road
Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE), which became the turning point in IDA's dialogue with
GOSL on highways. In March 1980, IDA approved the Road Passenger Transport Project (Credit
994-CE).
5.    The Second Roads Project (Loan 2517-CE, approved April 1985) built on the work of the
earlier two projects. Its objectives were to lower vehicle operating costs through a targeted
investment program for priority road sections and selected bridges. The loan also envisioned
strengthening the transport infrastructure institutions in the areas of transport planning,
coordination and road maintenance. The Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1883-CE, approved March 1988) financed road reconstruction in selected areas of the
north and northeast, which had been damaged during the country's civil unrest. To follow up on
the Second Roads Project, the general purpose of the Third Roads Project was to assist in
rehabilitating and upgrading road infrastructure, promote better and more sustainable road
maintenance, and reduce the high operating costs of selected road segments.



8
6.     The on-going Colombo Urban Transport Project (CUTP) (Credit 2495-CE, approved May
1993) has three components: (a) an Inmediate Action Plan including, a transport system
management program and selected road improvements, (b) a long-term Urban Transport Planning
component, and (c) an institutional strengthening component, which provides consultancy services
in transport regulation, technical assistance to initiate a process of reform in Sri Lanka Railways,
and an Air Quality Monitoring and Management Study.
7.     During the implementation period of the Third Roads Project Sri Lanka: (a) continued to
suffer a major military conflict against secessionist rebels, (b) implemented a partial
decentralization program, and (c) underwent a change of government in which the party that had
governed for 17 years was replaced by the opposition.
B - Proiect Obiectives
8.     The specific project objectives were to: (a) reduce road transport cost and delays for
passengers and goods by restoring major trunk roads to better operational condition, (b) help
restore priority road infrastructure damaged by flooding and landslides in May/June 1989, (c)
introduce institutional improvements in the planning, design, programmning and implementation of
works, and the administration and maintenance of the road system, and upgrade technical
standards and introduce efficient use of available materials to achieve greater cost-effectiveness,
and (d) upgrade RDA's capacity to supervise and execute rehabilitation works and to identify
actions needed to develop the local road contracting industry.
9.     The project was to be implemented over an eight-year period and was to focus on: (a)
rehabilitation of about 417 km of primary and secondary trunk routes (Class A and B roads), (b)
repair, rehabilitation and replacement of 24 bridges, (c) repair and rehabilitation of road sections
and associated structures damaged as a consequence of floods and landslides, (d) procurement of
vehicles, equipment and supplies to strengthen contract admninistration and management, and (e)
consultant services, technical assistance, and on-the-job training to improve contract monitoring
and cost control capabilities. The consultancy services/technical assistance component included:
project design, project supervision, and three studies on: (i) the local road contracting industry, (ii)
construction materials and design standards, and (iii) road user charges.
10.    The location of the road sections proposed for rehabilitation and of the bridges proposed
for repair and reconstruction, were selected from a larger program proposed by RDA based on
criteria of obvious risk of failure, filling network gaps, and traffic volumes (paragraph 43). At the
time of appraisal there was no national road plan or priority investment. The overall scope of the
project was limited by scarcity of resources and by the implementing institution's absorptive
capacity.
11.    The transport savings made possible by the project were expected to be passed on to the
users in the form of lower operating costs and increased product availability. The project's
benefits were expected to be widely distributed among all segments of the population. The flood
rehabilitation component was expected to directly assist rural low income families by restoring
access for agricultural inputs/outputs. The project would support private sector involvement in the
road sector through assistance to the local contracting industry and it was expected to generate
labor-intensive employment opportunities for residents in the vicinity of project works.
12.    The objectives were straightforward, in line with the country needs, and supported IDA
strategy in the highway subsector. They were appropriate in the context of the situation in the
highway sector when the project was formulated. The project's components were directly linked
to its objectives.



9
13.   A predominant risk was the possible breakdown of the fragile political stability in the
country, which could have affected implementation and costs. Flexibility was incorporated into
the implementation schedule to allow for the initial contracts to be in areas unaffected by political
unrest. Works were to be initially awarded at annual intervals in order to monitor the situation and
enable the timing of the later contracts to be adjusted to prevailing conditions. Other risks
identified were the possible weakening of GOSL's commitment to the project and over-extension
of RDA's implementation capacity.
C - Achievement of Obiectives
14.   The objectives to reduce road transport costs and delays, and to help restore road
infrastructure damaged by flooding were met by the physical achievements of the project. The
main physical objectives were substantially met after some delays. Of the 417 km initially
appraised, 387 km were contracted, and 310 km of roads were completed. Of this 310 km, 92 km
were completed with funding from EDCF. From a total of 19 bridges, 13 were completed. RDA is
currently completing outstanding works using its own resources. The greatest negative impacts are
the lingering bottlenecks that will persist until the bridge works are completed. The ERRs
expected by the road investments were achieved. The detailed status of the project road and bridge
components as of March 31, 1999 is shown as an attachment to the Supervision/Completion
Mission's Aide Memoire (Annex A).
15.   Road Contracts. Five contracts for roads covering 298 km have been completed. An
additional 12 km has been completed on contract WB3/3 (out of a total length of 88 kin). This
contract had major problems and was not completed even with the extended Credit closing date of
December 31, 1998. Bridge Contracts. Five contracts (comprising 13 bridges) out of a total eight
contracts (comprising total 19 bridges) are complete. The balance of work remaining after the
original and the extended credit closing dates is expected to be completed by RDA from its own
resources. RDA advised IDA that it is going to recover the damages and losses to GOSL caused
by contractor delays by enforcing appropriate measures in the conditions of contract.
16.   Institutional change in RDA is taking place within a context of trends affecting the road
sector in all countries. These global trends include:
* Growing service demands leading to accelerated deterioration of an aging infrastructure,
* Overall budget tightening, cost-cutting and calls for staff reductions,
* Institutional focus on users as the customers,
* Increasing concern with environmental and safety issues.
17.   In Sri Lanka, RDA currently remains largely in a traditional public agency orientation.
The regulatory environment is complicated by a multitude of processes and units. The
organizational structure includes a large overall size with many operations performed by their own
work force ("force account") or through other government agencies. The organization tends to
focus on technical and functional areas and is still lacking a long-term strategy. There is little use
of integrated modern computer systems and information processing concepts. Financing is
provided through government funding, and limited attention is paid to environmental and social
safeguards.
18.   In the context of current global trends and RDA's current institutional capacity, the project
had specific institutional development objectives including:
* introduce institutional improvements in the planning, design, programming and
implementation of works, and the administration and maintenance of the road system,
* upgrade technical standards and introduce efficient use of available materials to achieve
greater cost-effectiveness,



10
* upgrade RDA's capacity to supervise and execute rehabilitation works,
* identify actions needed to develop the local road contracting industry.
19.   Even though these institutional development objectives were limited, the project only
partially achieved these objectives, including:
*  strengthened administration of projects,
*  improved understanding of road users, improved understanding of and support for the local
construction industry, and improved design standards and construction methods,
*  support of the local consulting and contracting industries through their direct involvement
in the project.
*  improvement of the technical skills of some of RDA engineers' through secondment to
supervision consultants,
20.   RDA's project management and administrative capability was substantially improved
under the project through the establishment and organization of PMMU in RDA. Senior road and
bridge engineers were assigned to PMMU, and the relevant expertise was provided to develop and
operate the systems and procedures needed. Computerized programs for monitoring and reporting
on the financial and physical progress of the project's road and bridge components were set up and
RDA staff trained in their use. In addition, PMMU satisfactorily prepared the many road and
bridge contract documents and managed the bid evaluation process. It had a temporary lapse
following the departure of the expatriate expert, but additional training was given to RDA staff,
and its operations were revived. PMMDvU has been successfully operating with only RDA staff
since April 1997. RDA has expanded the work of PMMU to include managing and administering
all foreign-aided development projects in the highway subsector.
21.   The project's Technical Assistance component focused on three areas of institutional
improvement: road user charges, design, and construction and maintenance. The results of these
efforts are discussed below.
22.   A Road User Charges Study was satisfactorily completed by Transport Studies and
Planning Centre (TSPC), assisted by a consulting transport economist, in October 1992. A draft
final report was published in January 1993. The objective of the study was to investigate the
benefits received by, and charges currently levied upon, the different types of road user. The study
recommended increases in user fees for two types of user, and because of their macro-economic
implications, the study recommendations were referred to MOF/Planning. The findings and
recommendations of the study were discussed at a Workshop on Transport Sector Policy organized
in Colombo by GOSL and IDA in July 1996. However, the implementation of the
recommendations has not taken place, and the matter still rests with MOF.
23.   A domestic Construction Industry Study was satisfactorily completed by Institute of
Contractor Training (ICTAD) in September 1992. The Study findings highlighted the difficulties
of contracting in Sri Lanka and contained recommendations to resolve these difficulties. The
findings were endorsed by the GOSL and implemented by RDA and by ICTAD with the assistance
of the Contractors' Association. The local civil engineering and construction industry has
benefited as a result (paragraph 26). Recently, the Contractors Association has achieved
recognition of construction work as an industry in its right. GOSL just passed a Construction
Industry Act to give construction, as an industry, the same access to the same development
incentives as other industrial sectors.
24.   A Materials. Highway and Bridge Design Study was carried out by RDA in-house with the
assistance of experts on highway alignment and pavement design, and an expert on bridge design
provided through international consultants. The study with the international consultants was



11
completed in August 1996. RDA is now using the findings and recommendations in its work.
Among the study's recommendations were to: (a) relate designs more closely to the availability
and use of local materials, (b) upgrade and enhance the skills of the local consultants in highway
engineering as well as improve RDA's engineers capability in reviewing designs, and (c) upgrade
and modernize the RDA bridge design methodology. To achieve this the consultants prepared
manuals for highway geometric and pavement design and for bridge design. This material was
circulated for discussion and further adapted to Sri Lankan requirements.
25.   The following documents have since been issued by RDA to strengthen design and
supervision:
*  Structural Design of Roads Under Sri Lankan Conditions (Geometric Design Standard of
Roads),
* Manual and Unified Set of Standards for Road Construction. Rehabilitation, and
Maintenance,
*  Bridge Design Manual,
*  Bridge Construction Manual,
*  Bridge Maintenance Manual,
* Inventory of Road Construction Materials,
e  Amendments to Standard Specifications for Road Construction and Maintenance for
Roads and Bridges (1989) - Pavement Section
26.   The development of the local contracting industry (for construction activities only) started
under IDA's Second Roads Project and received a major boost under the Third Roads Project.
Following the successful completion of a study on the construction industry done by ICTAD,
agreement was reached among RDA, ICTAD and IDA on the participation of local contractors,
appropriately prequalified according to their capacity and competence, in the road and bridge
rehabilitation program. Most of these contractors satisfactorily completed their works and gained
considerable experience for future contracting work. Two local design consultants, one local
supervision consultant, and five local contractors were involved in implementing the project.
Local firms accounted for 35% of IDA disbursements on construction.
27.   A small number of local contractors failed to complete their contracts, and RDA made
arrangements with the Contractors' Association, with IDA approval, to complete the contracts.
The main cause of local contractor failure was the lack of adequate working capital resulting from
inexperience in financial management. This appeared to be particularly the case with the
use/misuse of the contract mobilization advance. This problem should be addressed in future
contracts by better prequalification and perhaps by more flexible disbursement mechanisms.
Overall partial results were achieved in private sector development.
28.   Several institutional practices in RDA need further strengthening and were only partly
addressed by this project. Examples include:
* Competitive tendering of construction and maintenance (for works funded by IDA only),
* Increased use of information technology (is now starting),
* Creation of owner/provider model (i.e. road agency, not yet applied),
* Innovative financing arrangements (not yet applied),
* Certification program for contractors(not yet applied),
* Performance management and measurement framework (not applied during project), and
* Need to incorporate social assessment and resettlement safeguards into project design and
implementation. (For example, greater attention and specific guidelines developed by the
Borrower and IDA during and after project approval).



12
29.   In a broader institutional context, more attention will need to be given in future road sector
projects to:
* Regulatory context - RDA needs to become more aware of external stakeholders, their
interests, and valued responses,
*  Structural Characteristics - improving service delivery effectiveness requires streamlining
certain processes and carrying out maintenance through contractors. Restructuring will
require a high level of political support and strong external support (ADB, IDA, OECF),
*  Processes - technical assistance for process reengineering is required to assist in building
organizational capability through joint client-consultant teams,
*  Systems -there is a need to integrate information technology awareness and its
significance into all aspects of change management work (not only to discrete units), and
*  Financing mechanisms - road sector financing requires initiatives that provide
additionality to Central Government funding. Benchmarking study tours could be
sponsored to instruct and reorient leaders and financial personnel to more commercial
practices and the culture of private investment.
D - Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
30.    Timeliness of decision making. The slow and lengthy GOSL clearance procedures for
standard contract documentation, tender evaluation, and contract award caused major delays in
project implementation. Delays of 8 to 12 months in civil works procurement were not
uncommnon. These delays increased costs by triggering contract price escalation clauses. There
were also considerable delays in obtaining the necessary quarrying licenses despite the active
support of RDA.
31.   Inexperienced local contractors. Mobilization by some local contractors was slowed by
their inadequate financial management and experience. Advance payments were not always
managed well, leading to cash flow problems in the early stages of the contract. Poor performance
of some local contractors was encountered. Some contractors alleged failure to find local
materials expected in the vicinity of the project sites, which indicates poor pre-construction
surveys and experience.
32.   Inexperienced international contractor. One contractor and one contract represented
the bulk of the substantive implementation problems in this project. This may have been
exacerbated by the contractor's relative inexperience in road construction in contrast to other types
of civil engineering. Weak prequalification screening may also have contributed to this situation.
E - Proiect Sustainability
33.    Sustainability. The project's sustainability is rated uncertain. A positive development is
GOSL's recognition that the benefits of improved maintenance of existing roads should make it a
spending priority. GOSL contributions to RDA have increased from 3.2% of the Public
Investment Programme (PIP) over the 1985-89 period (or 33% of all contributions to transport) to
10.8% of the PIP over the 1995-98 period (or 49% of all contributions to transport). The Sri
Lanka Transport Sector Strategy Study (TSSS, Report No. 16269-CE, page 21) published in
January 1997 estimates (based on existing conditions and unit costs) that this trend will continue,
with highways rising to 65% of all contributions to transport beyond the year 2000. While these
macro-level allocations do not break out the proportion spent on maintenance, the RDA budget
(next paragraph) provides this. RDA' s budget is supplied from GOSL general revenue.



13
34.   Also on the positive side, RDA's commnitment of resources for maintenance has improved
during the course of the project. There has been a trend to higher expenditures on mnaintenance in
real terms. Table 1 (below) summarizes the RDA's maintenance budget and expenditure.
Table 1, RDA Maintenance Budget (Rs millions, annual average for period shown)
Time period   Budget    Actual    Actual as    Actual in     Km of        Actual
amount    amount       % of       constant   roads under  (constant)/km,
spent     budget   (1990) value    RDA       (Rs thousands)
1985-1989    309.3      213.3      69.0 %       273.0      25,600         10.7
1990-1994    545.5      543.2      99.6 %       446.9       10,400        42.8
1995-1998    1068.7     946.6      88.6%        521.8       11,133        46.9
1999-2004    1416.2      ...         ...        588.7       11,152        52.8
_______________________  ___ __ __ ___ __ _ _   (budgeted)   _ _I
Sources: SAR, RDA (Annex B, routine plus periodic maintenance).
35.   On the other hand, it is still not clear if the increases in spending are sufficient to
guarantee sustainability of the strategic road system. Until 1990, RDA was responsible for 25,600
km of roads. Since 1990, with the devolution of 15,300 km of roads to Provincial Councils (C, D,
& E roads) and other minor adjustments, RDA has been responsible for approximately 11,100 km
of roads.
36.   Recent information for RDA shows that during the 1995 to 1998 period, expenditures for
maintenance were Rs 946.6 million per year (Rs 521.8 million constant 1990 value). The
budgeted amounts for 1999 to 2004 are approximately Rs 1,416.2 million per year (Rs 588.7
mnillion constant 1990 value).
37.   The predominant form of periodic maintenance used by RDA is sand sealing, a surface
treatment with an effective life of about two years. In the early 1990s, RDA completed roughly
1,700 km of sand sealing per year. During the 1996 to 1998 period, RDA provided about 2,500
km of sand sealing each year, although the annual figure varies. This represents about 23% of the
network each year. With its effective life of about two years, this effort is sufficient to mninimally
maintain about 46% (23% x 2 years) of the total A and B roads network or, alternatively, to
maintain the network with resealing, on average, every 4.3 years. Detailed information on the
location of roads receiving sand sealing compared to their traffic volumes is not available. The
Borrower's contribution to the ICR (Annex B) includes a summary of their Operational Plan for
the immediate future. Details on the conditions of the road network are shown in Annex C.
38.   There is further evidence of GOSL attention to the importance of maintenance in the
highway subsector, through its increasing transfer of funds for maintenance of Provincial Council
roads. This is a relatively new level of government, established in 1989. Since then the Provincial
Councils are responsible for 15,300 km of Class C, D, and E roads. Through the Ministry of
Transport and Highways (MTH), GOSL was transferring approximately Rs 90 million per year to
the Provincial Councils prior to 1996. Since then the transfers have increased substantially: Rs
800 million in 1996 and 1997 and Rs 1,000 million in 1998 and 1999. The budget is Rs 1,500
million in 2000. The transfer mechanism is also evolving. As the Councils have developed
administrative experience, they have taken on more direct responsibilities. Beginning in 2000, the
Treasury will make the transfers directly to the Provincial Councils. There is no data available yet



14
to determine the effectiveness of these increased expenditures. Performance of the Provincial
authorities in maintaining the secondary road network under their responsibility is critical to
ensure sustainability of the road network.
39.   MTH will continue to support to Provincial Councils through setting standards, regulating,
training, technical assistance, and preparing District Plans (25 in total, with a 10 year planning
horizon). A Road Sector Master Plan will be available in 2000 to guide priorities for the country
as a whole. The design manuals and standards prepared through this project are being
disseminated to all Provincial Councils and local municipalities to supply road and bridge
standards.
40.   RDA has improved its ability to undertake and manage construction and maintenance
contracts with the formation of PMMU. The local contracting industry has increased its
experience and skill in performing maintenance work. Both of these developments will contribute
to better sustainability of the road sector. However long term sustainability will also depend on
having an adequate stream of on-going construction contracting, to provide the newly created
industry with a steady supply of work.
41.   A project covenant not complied with was the implementation of recommendations from
the Roads User Charges Study that taxes on diesel fuel be increased (raising the retail price, in
1992 figures, from Rs 11.55/1 to Rs 14.10/1, to be equivalent to petrol (gasoline). This represents
an increase of 22%) and that annual registration fees for heavy trucks be increased (times three, to
Rs 12,000). These recommendations have been under consideration by the GOSL since the report
was completed in 1993. Because of their macroeconomic implications, the study
recommendations were referred to MOF/Planning, but implementation of the recommendations
has not taken place, and the matter still rests with MOF. During supervision, the lack of
compliance with the project covenants was pointed out.
F - IDA Performance
42.    Project Identification. Project identification was satisfactory. This project was a
continuation of earlier road development projects supported by IDA. The first road project was
prepared by IDA staff, based on the country's list of road priority projects. Identification for the
Second Roads Project was more detailed. It involved a preparation process whereby less than half
of the detailed selection work was done by local consultants and the balance by international
consultants. In the Third Roads Project about two-thirds of the identification effort was done by
local consultants with only one-third being done by international firms. Realignment of road
sections, or junctions, was not considered in project design. This was because (a) both IDA and
Borrower sides felt that requirements for land acquisition would significantly delay
implementation, and (b) delays in implementation would postpone - and thus lower - the benefits
expected from the project. IDA's policy and guidelines on resettlement planning now require that
a detailed social assessment of road rehabilitation and construction projects be conducted during
project preparation. More attention to realignment and road junctions should be given during
design of future road projects.
43.    The selection of road segments for analysis and incorporation into the project was based
on: (a) risk of physical failure, (b) completing gaps remaining in the priority road network from
earlier investment programs, especially around Colombo, (c) expected areas of urban development
around Colombo, and (d) longer distance access in the fast growing region south of Colombo.
This explains the apparently "patchy" selection of roads around Colombo and the different set of
inter-city roads selected to the south.



15
44.   Preparation Assistance. Preparation assistance was satisfactory. Part of the effort to
develop capacity in the highway sector has been to encourage an understanding of the value of
maintaining existing roads rather than simply building new ones. This includes not diverting
maintenance funds into reconstruction or new roads spending.
45.   After the first and second roads projects, more attention was paid to the sector
environment and the implementation details in this project. During project preparation an effort
was made. to make better use of local consultants, backed up by international consultants, to
establish the details of the investments required. In this project considerable effort was placed on
clearly defining and describing the types of investment including road segments or bridges to be
upgraded and presenting the analysis in detail in the appraisal report. Performance indicators were
not included to monitor and evaluate the project during implementation.
46.   Appraisal. The appraisal work was satisfactory. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
clearly documents the full details of the investment program and its analysis. At appraisal the final
engineering designs were complete for about 200 km of roads and six bridges, nearly half of the
project roads, which allowed a fast start on implementation.
47.   The technical review of the project was detailed and robust. Cost estimates and economic
analysis were completed for 25 road segments and 26 bridges. Traffic volume data provided by
RDA were selectively cross-checked using field surveys conducted by Moratuwa University. The
economic evaluation included a switch value analysis demonstrating that a cost increase of 418%
or a benefits reduction of 81 % would be needed to drive the project to a zero net present value.
48.   The SAR shows an understanding of the limits of the Borrower's procedures and provides
remedies for this by setting up PMMU, the appointment of supervision consultants, the
requirements for monitoring and an annual action plan showing adequate resources committed
from GOSL. The possibility for delays was built into the original timetable by following the
standard disbursement profile for this sector.
49.   Supervision. With a total of 17 supervision missions over the lengthy 8-year project
implementation period - or slightly over 2 missions each year - IDA supervision and progress
reporting were satisfactory, and the performance ratings were appropriate. Performance
indicators, however, were not retrofitted during project implementation. The slow progress in
contract execution and cost control were the main concerns of IDA's supervision missions. The
contract execution delays resulted mainly from the unsatisfactory performance of one of the two
expatriate contractors and from the inexperience of some of the local contractors, which was
expected given the nature of this component. The individual contract and component costs and the
aggregated project cost and related disbursement percentage were closely monitored during
supervision with PMMU.
50.   There was considerable disappointment with the performance of an international
contractor on Contract WB3/3 (Galle - Matara), and an inordinate amount of IDA supervision
time was spent on this contract. The contractor failed to fulfill his contractual obligations and
effectively abandoned the works, having completed only 12 km out of 88 km. The contractor had
been prequalified by RDA as fully compliant. The bid came in much lower in price than that given
in the Engineer's estimate and was the lowest bid received. The Tender Board, because of this low
bid price, then recommended against awarding the contract to this contractor. However, IDA
insisted on following the Procurement Guidelines (i.e., must accept the lowest responsive bid) and
on having the contract awarded, albeit with an increased Performance Guarantee and a Detailed
Implementation Program to be closely monitored. Once awarded, it became difficult for RDA to
remedy the situation despite almost continuous urging by IDA supervision missions for



16
appropriate actions as allowed under the conditions of contract. The Borrower perceives IDA to
be non-responsive on procurement decisions.
51.   IDA's prompt and flexible responses to proposals dealing with the many problems
experienced with the local contractors and to other project related matters conceming increased
costs and revisions to disbursement percentages were a commendable feature of IDA's supervision
performance (paragraphs 27, 60).
52.   Apart from monitoring and reporting on the physical and financial progress of the project
and ensuring that the suitable quality controls were in place, the supervision missions concentrated
on the following important project matters:
*  institutional development of RDA's project management and administration,
*  project cost controls,
*  development of local contracting industry, and
*  studies on Road User Charges, Domestic Contracting Industry and Road Materials, Design and
Construction Standards.
53.   The extension of the credit closing date from June 30, 1998 to December 31, 1998 was
undertaken at the request of GOSL and in the expectation that with this extension road contact
WB3/3 and bridge contract WB3/29 could be completed. Despite the extension neither of these
two contracts were completed.
G - Borrower Performance
54.   Project Identification and Preparation. Overall, the Borrower's project identification
and preparation activities were satisfactory. The Borrower faced some difficulties in project
identification and preparation because basic planning information was lacking, e.g., out-of-date or
non-existent topographic surveys and pavement conditions data for some road segments. Another
difficulty in project preparation was the specifications required by RDA for bridge design. RDA
uses designs which are both material and labor intensive, and which result in slow construction.
Requiring the use of these designs raised expected costs and reduced the amount of work planned.
Adopting the Bridge Design Manual, prepared as part of this project, should improve future
project preparation.
55.   Implementation. The Borrower's performance in implementing the project was generally
satisfactory. Following the system set up under the IDA-supported Second Roads Project, RDA
managed the project through a Contract Construction Division. The Division was headed by a
Director with Deputy Directors responsible for road and bridge contracts on a district basis. The
Division was effectively supported by PMLMU.
56.   Lengthy GOSL bid document approval and tender evaluation procedures (sometime taking
up to 8 - 12 months) were the main causes of delays in project implementation. These procedures
were discussed by IDA missions at all GOSL levels involved, and although the financial thresholds
were raised to allow clearances by various departments and ministries, the procedures are still
inordinately lengthy. This problem needs to be resolved by senior IDA staff with high level GOSL
officials.
57.   Expatriate consultants in joint venture with a local consultant assisted RDA in reviewing
and revising designs done largely by local consultants and in the supervision of road works. Their
performance on supervision was less than satisfactory on occasion and RDA had to request the
removal and replacement of the engineer's representative because of his failure to apply strictly
the specifications on drainage in one instance, and a seeming reluctance to recommend appropriate



17
contractual action against the poorly performing expatriate contractor. The replacement engineer's
representative performed satisfactorily.
58.   Local consultants were involved in the design of road works and performed satisfactorily.
However, there was the problem of lack of responsibility between the design reviewer and the
original designers in cases where errors of center-line location and resulting construction
quantities occurred.
59.   The bridge structure designs were done by RDA's Bridge Division. The designs were
archaic and not cost effective. The Bridge Design Manual will help RDA upgrade and modernize
its bridge designs. RDA has adopted the new Bridge Design Manual standards and is using them
in other donor agency development projects as well.
60.   In recognition of RDA's initially limited capacity to manage projects the project schedule
allowed for a gradual start up with only one contract being tendered at a time. Much higher than
expected cost estimates, which came in with the initial rounds of bids, delayed awarding the
contracts while cost reduction approaches were examined, including alternative designs and split
contracts. This need for redesign along with the limited capacity of local design contractors
slowed the design work. The need for contract document re-drafting and re-approval also delayed
letting contracts.
61.   Despite the difficulties involved in managing inexperienced contractors and a reluctance to
take appropriate contractual action against poorly performing contractors, RDA implemented the
project satisfactorily and is to be commended for their flexible solutions in dealing with
contractors' cash flow, equipment and materials problems (paragraph 27).
62.   Project Covenants. Overall the project covenants compliance is rated satisfactory. The
project covenants were complied with except for adopting the recommendations of the Road User
Charges Study. As described in the sustainability section above, the study recommended a slight
increase in the retail price of diesel fuel and a substantial increase in the annual license fee for
heavy trucks. These recommendations have not been adopted. The recommendations were made
to more carefully match the contribution of the road system users to the maintenance costs they
create. GOSL's lack of acceptance of the recomnmendations, which has left in place inappropriate
price signals, is a significant barrier to efficient evolution of the transport system. This issue is
critical for sustainability of maintenance, indicating that future involvement in the sector should
pay close attention to implementation of the study' s recommendation.
63.    Operation. The Borrower's actions have been satisfactory. PMMU is an on-going
operational aspect of this project. Setting it up was a condition of the Credit (Schedule 4-1).
PMMU was operational with an expatriate Advisor by the time of the first supervision mission
(March 1991). Despite a change in the Advisor after one year due to health reasons, and a period
of staff turnover (April 1995 to May 1997) when no senior RDA staff were commnitted to PMMU,
RDA has since supported it with adequate staffing, resources and attention. Its work has been
expanded to manage and administer all foreign-aided development projects in the highway
subsector. In its present form, PMMU is sustainable. Future work in this area would be to build
on the initial success and to improve the supervision ability for more difficult contracts.
H - Assessment of Outcome
64.    Overall Outcome. The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. This rating is
based on the satisfactory, if partial, achievement of the physical objectives, the improved
institutional capacity of RDA, and the development of the local contracting industry. The project
would have been highly satisfactory if better project management for road contract WB3/3 had



18
resulted in problems being addressed in time to have an alternate contractor complete the proposed
works.
65.   Economic Evaluation. Economic analysis was undertaken to compare estimated ERR
(from the SAR) with achieved ERR (based on actual results to date) for the project's roads
segments. The SAR showed an overall ERR of 33% for the project, with a range for specific road
links from 22% to over 80%. The revised analysis prepared by the Borrower shows an overall
ERR of 52%, with rates of return ranging from 21% to 125% for specific road links. Overall
traffic volumes on project road segments, at opening, were 14% higher than estimated in the SAR.
Details by road link and assumptions used are provided in Annex C.
I - Future Operation
66.   In support of IDA's Transport Sector Strategy, future IDA support should address
institutional change and policy reform of RDA: (a) from a public oriented to a mixed model
agency, (b) to improve the efficiency of management of strategic needs, and (c) to improve human
resource development. Institutional strengthening and RDA staff training should be continued,
with emphasis on project management, environmental and social assessment, and planning.
67.   GOSL needs to substantially increase the budget for roads to implement RDA' s ambitious
priority investment plan for the next decade. This plan will require substantial resources for
development and maintenance. At present, District Plans (including district road master plans) are
under development. For any plan to be implemented it will be necessary to (i) increase the
efficiency of expenditure, (ii) identify new sources of financing, (iii) attract private investment to
complement public sector investment, and (iv) increase attention to sustainable and effective
maintenance.
68.   With the devolution of 15,300 km of roads to the Provincial level and the gradual
emergence of road agencies for these subnational levels of government, there is an opportunity for
RDA and external funding agencies to assist the newer agencies in developing their maintenance
capability, including identification of sustainable maintenance funding sources.
69.   Future investments in the highway subsector of Sri Lanka must balance maintenance with
upgrading of strategic roads to provide additional road capacity. Past IDA projects have been
concerned mainly with the physical rehabilitation of road pavements only. No realignment
improvements or new alignments have been built, and no substantial increase in road capacity has
been provided. Resettlement and environmental safeguards should be better incorporated into
project design.
70.   More cost-effective maintenance practices need to be adopted in view of the huge backlog
in periodic maintenance. The lower cost single and double bituminous surface treatments must be
considered and the more costly Asphaltic Concrete (AC) surfacings only used when additional
pavement structural strength is needed. This would also help the local contractors since it is less
equipment intensive.
71.   The number of traffic accidents, already very high on some major roads, will increase
dramatically. Road safety measures are already urgently needed. An effort should be developed
with RDA/GOSL to support a comprehensive, staged, development plan for the expansion of road
network capacity and the ancillary works needed to ensure a cost effective and safe road transport
system.



19
72.   IDA should assist RDA/GOSL in implementing a bridge replacement and rehabilitation
program. This should be based on RDA's bridge condition inventory, which shows that a very
high proportion of the existing bridge structures need to be either replaced or rehabilitated.
J - Key Lessons Learned
73.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
*  Institutional reform is needed to enable RDA to move from a public oriented agency to a
mixed agency and should: (a) improve efficiency through outsourcing of maintenance to
contractors, (b) incorporate information technology in road management, (c) create an
owner/provider model, (d) develop environmental and social safeguards in road development
and maintenance, and (e) streamline management and decision-making. External financing
agencies will play a major role in supporting RDA in the reform process as part of road sector
lending. The availability of large external aided support, with limited conditionality, for new
road development is a factor to take into consideration. Any future road sector lending should
be preceded by a dialogue on reform with GOSL, RDA, and other major donors (paragraphs
28, 30, 56, 66).
*  GOSL should empower the Tender Committee and a revise the clearance procedures for the
approval of bid documents to ensure timely contract awards. This could minimize project
delays and improve decision-making (paragraphs 30, 56, 60).
*  During project design greater attention should be placed on: (a) planning and prioritization of
investments, (b) holistic design to address safety issues, environment, and social safeguards,
(c) monitoring and evaluation systems including performance indicators, and (d) sustainability,
including funding and mechanisms for road safety. Appropriate design and standards,
including attention to resettlement, environment, and alignment considerations, are critical to
achieve efficient and effective results in construction and maintenance (paragraphs 42, 60, 69,
70, 71).
*  Support for local contractors needs to be improved, especially when fostering development of
a new set of private sector companies. The lack of adequate working capital resulting from
inexperience in financial management delayed several contractors (paragraphs 27, 31).
Consideration should be given to a more comprehensive development program for the private
construction sector as a whole, including more than simply updating government standards.
There is also a need to have an adequate stream of on-going construction contracting, to
provide the newly created industry with a steady supply of work (paragraph 40).
*  Decentralization of responsibility for the road network - if not well orchestrated - is likely to
have an adverse effect on the sustainability of the strategic road network and the smooth
functioning of road transport (paragraphs 38, 39, 68).
*  To ensure sustainable financing of road maintenance, it is critical to implement reforms in the
road user charging system (paragraphs 22, 41, 62).
*  Bridge opening delays have a major effect on users by creating prolonged traffic bottlenecks at
key locations. The economic analysis done at appraisal should explicitly consider the costs of
delayed bridge construction in its risk assessment. The appraisal should also consider the
potential for bridge construction delays in its treatment of risk mitigation and should include
alternative designs (paragraph 14).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT 2183 - CE
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEX



21
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                 O             O              O               /
Sector Policies                O             /              E               
Financial Objectives            O 0/                        VI              Cl
Institutional Development        l           /              E               D
Physical Objectives            /              E             0               E
Poverty Reduction               E             E             El              /
Gender Issues                   El            E             E               /
Other Social Objectives         E             E             E               /
Environmental Objectives        El            E              El             /
Public Sector Management        O                            1/  E          El
Private Sector Development      E             /              E              E
Other (specify)                 E             E             E               /
B. Project Sustainabilitv         Likely              Unlikely               Uncertain
El                    El                     /
Highly
C. Bank Performnance              Satisfactorv       Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                  E                                           0/ El
Preparation Assistance          E                    /                      El
Appraisal                       E                    /                      E
Supervision                    E                     /                      E
Highly
D. Borrower Perfornance                Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                             E             /             E
Implementation                          E            V/             E
Covenant Compliance                     El           /             E
Operation (if applicable)               E            /             E
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         Satisfactory Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
El           /              El              El



22
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                          Year of     Status
approval
1. Road Maintenance       The basic aim was to facilitate the transport of goods and  June  complete
Project (Credit 900-CE)   passengers and to reduce road transport costs. The project    1979
was specifically designed to: (a) arrest the deterioration of
the road system by a program of enhanced routine and
periodic maintenance, and (b) lay the foundation for
improved planning of road maintenance and execution of
future works
2. Road Passenger         The objectives of the project were to: (a) restrain the growth   March    complete
Transport Project (Credit    of oil imports, (b) provide a more reliable bus service which   1980
994-CE)                   would offer the public a more acceptable alternative to the
use of private car, and (c) decentralize the control of bus
operations to financially viable RTBs.
3. Second Roads Project   The objectives of the Second Roads Project were to lower    April  complete
(Loan 2517-CE)            vehicle operating costs on Sri Lanka's deteriorated road  1985
network through a targeted investment program for priority
road sections and selected bridges. The loan also envisioned
strengthening the institutions concerned with transport
infrastructure in the areas of transport planning and
coordination and road maintenance. The project's principal
components included improving periodic maintenance of the
trunk road network and bridges (about 10,400 km and
several hundred structures), and the rehabilitation and/or
widening of about 570 kilometers of roads and 28 brides. It
also provided for workshop and laboratory equipment,
training in bitumen emulsion technology, equipment fleet
management and technical assistance to strengthen contract
management and administration
4. Emergency              The main objectives of the project were to assist the  March     complete
Reconstruction and        Government of Sri Lanka: (i) to deliver crucial social needs    1983
Rehabilitation Project    to refugees returning to the North and East regions of the
(Credit 1883-CE)          country, which had been ravaged by civil war, (ii) to
rehabilitate and upgrade basic infrastructure damaged in the
conflict, and (iii) to reestablish economic activities in these
areas. Specific objectives of the project included: (i)
clearing of mined residential and agricultural areas, (ii)
provision of resettlement grants, (iii) assistance for housing
construction and for the recovery of economic activities, and
(iv) reconstruction of physical infrastructure.
5. Economic Restructuring                                                        May
Credit (Credit 2128-CE)                                                          1990
6.Colombo Urban Transport  The project has three components: (i) an Immediate Action   April
Project (Credit 2495-CE)    Plan including, a transport system management (TSM)  1993
rogram, selected road improvements, and consultancy



23
services for implementation support, (ii) a long-term Urban
Transport Planning component, with consultants to carry out
a Colombo Urban Transport Plan, (iii) an Institutional
Strengthening component, which provided consultancy
services in transport regulation to train the National
Transport Commission (NTC) and Provincial Council (PC)
staff, technical assistance to initiate a process of reform in
Sri Lanka Railways (SLR), and an Air Quality Monitoring
and Management Study.
7. Transport Sector Strategy                                                            Published,
Study                                                                                   Mar. 1997



24
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            January 1989
Preparation                                                            May 1989
Appraisal                                       April 1990             April 1990
Negotiations                                  September 1990         September 1990
Board Presentation                           November 6, 1990       November 6, 1990
Signing                                      November 30, 1990     November 30, 1990
Effectiveness                                 February 21,1991      February 21,1991
Midterm review                                                     November 15, 1994
Project Completion                                                 November 29, 1998
Loan Closing                                   June 30, 1998       December 31, 1998



TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
FY91          FY92          FY93          FY94           FY95          FY96          FY97           FY98           FY99
Appraisal        2.4           4.9            9.8          17.2           26.2          34.4          40.4           42.5          42.5
Estimate
Actual           2.41          4.53          6.25          7.41          11.54          18.61         30.29          36.56         37.77
Actual as %     100%           92%           64%           43%            44%           54%           75%            86%            89%
of Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: June 2, 1999.



26
TABLES 5 AND 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Key hmplementation Indicators                SAR Estimate       Revised            Actual
(funded)       (IDA + EDCF)
1. Road Rehabilitation Works                  417 km           387 km            310 km
2. Bridge Works                               24 total         19 total          13 total
- repair, widen, re-deck                      13               11                7
- replace, reconstruct                        11               8                 6



27
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                     Purpose as Defined                     Status           Impact of
at AppraisallRedefmed                                     Study
1 .Road User Charges   This study updates and refines information and    Completed by TSPC in   Recommendat
analysis of road use costs and revenues contained  1993. Recommended    ions under
in the 1988 TSPS. The objective of the study is   modest increase in diesel  consideration
to determine the extent of present distortions and   price and times 3  by GOSL
the reforns needed to correct them.        increase in heavy vehicle
registration
2.Road Contracting    The study investigates current practices, analyzes  Completed by ICTAD in  More local
Industry. (also   constraints the industry is facing, and     September 1992.        contractors are
referred to as:   recommends an action plan of measures for its                      now
Construction      development by introducing international                           participating
Industry Study, or   practices into the industry. The study identifies              in the project
as: Domestic      the changes needed to develop a more efficient                     contracts.
Contracting       operation to permit members of the domestic
Industry Study)   contracting industry to' contribute more to the
economic development of the country, and to
increase the benefits to Sri Lanka generated by
construction projects being prepared or
implemented through foreign assistance.
3.Road Materials,    This study defines, compares, and recommends    Completed by RDA and   Results being
Design and         improved standards and specifications suitable    Renardet S.A.    used by RDA
Construction       for locally available materials and techniques.  Consultants, in August   and by other
Standards.         The study provides an inventory of materials that  1996.           donor agency
(Construction and  can be economically and efficiently used in road   Recommendations have   development
Maintenance        construction and maintenance and develops   been incorporated into    projects
Standards Study)   pavement construction and maintenance       design manuals.
techniques that make optimal use of local
materials and minimize costs. A unified set of
road construction and maintenance standards was
prepared.



28
TABLE 8A, PART 1 - PROJECT COSTS IN US $
Appraisal Estimate (US $ million)  Actual/Latest Estimate (US $ million)
Local     Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign    Total
Item                          Costs      Costs                   Costs      Costs
1.ROADS                            18.43       25.45      43.88
Physical Contingencies           1.40       1.93       3.33
Price Contingencies             2.51        4.85       7.36
Sub-Total                          22.35       32.23      54.58       17.46     34.96       52.54
2.BRIDGES                           2.48        2.48       4.95
Physical Contingencies          0.34        0.34       0.69
Price Contingencies             0.16        0.33       0.50
Sub-Total                           2.98        3.15       6.14        1.96      2.22        4.18
3.FLOOD REHAB.                       1.68       0.56       2.24
Physical Contingencies          0.17        0.06       0.22
Price Contingencies             0.01        0.04       0.06                                  l
Sub-Total                            1.86       0.66       2.52        0.17      0.60        0.77
4.EQUIPMENT                         0.10        0.10       0.19
Physical Contingencies          0.01        0.01       0.02
Price Contingencies             0.00        0.00       0.00
Sub-Total                           0.10        0.11       0.21        0.04      0.07        0.11
5.TECHNICAL ASSIST.
Project Support                 2.30        2.41       4.72
Physical Contingencies        0.22       0.20        0.42
Price Contingencies           0.20       0.36        0.55
Total       2.72       2.97        5.69
Policy Development              0.16        0.63       0.79
Physical Contingencies        0.00       0.00        0.00
Price Contingencies           0.01       0.07        0.08
Total       0.17       0.70        0.87
Sub-Total                           2.89        3.67       6.57        0.19      5.64        5.82
Total Base Cost                    25.15       31.62      56.77
Total Physical Contingencies        2.14        2.55       4.69
Total Price Contingencies           2.89        5.66       8.55
Project Preparation Facility         0.00       0.50       0.50        0.00      0.34        0.34
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 30.18       40.33      70.51       19.81     43.83       63.64
Based on SAR, Table 8A, Part 2 (the following table), and an exchange rate of Rs 58.55/1 US$
(12 month average to November 1997)



29
TABLE 8A, PART 2 - PROJECT COSTS IN SL Rs
Appraisal Estirnate (SL Rs rnillion)   Actual/Latest Estimate
Appraisal Estimate (SL Rs million)        (SL Rs million)
Local     Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign    Total
Item                          Costs      Costs                   Costs      Costs
LROADS                             737.2      1018.1     1755.4
Physical Contingencies          56.0        77.4      133.4
Price Contingencies            261.9       428.1      690.0                                  I
Sub-Total                          1055.1     1523.5     2578.7      1022.0    2047.0      3069.0
2.BRIDGES                           99.1        99.1      198.2
Physical Contingencies          13.7        13.7       27.4
Price Contingencies             26.2        34.2       60.4                                   l
Sub-Total                           139.0      147.0      286.0       115.0     130.0       245.0
3.FLOOD REHAB.                      67.2        22.4       89.6
Physical Contingencies           6.7         2.2        9.0
Price Contingencies             11.3         5.6       16.8
Sub-Total                           85.2        30.2      115.4        10.0      35.0        45.0
4.EQUIPMENT                          3.8         3.8        7.6
Physical Contingencies           0.4         0.4        0.8
Price Contingencies              0.3         0.7        1.0
Sub-Total                            4.5         4.9        9.4        2.26      4.20        6.46
5.TECHNICAL ASSIST.
Project Support                 92.3        96.4      188.7
Physical Contingencies         8.9        8.1        17.0
Price Contingencies           26.2       34.3        60.5
Total      127.4      138.8       266.2
Policy Development               6.3        25.2       31.5
Physical Contingencies         0.0        0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies            1.4        7.3         8.7
Total        7.7       32.5        40.2
Sub-Total                           135.1      171.3      306.4        10.9     330.0       340.9
Total Base Cost                    1005.9     1265.0     2270.9
Total Physical Contingencies         85.7      101.8       187.5
Total Price Contingencies           327.3      510.1      837.4
Project Preparation Facility         0.0        20.0       20.0         0.0      20.0        20.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST           [    1418.9      1896.9     3315.8    1160.16    2566.2    3726.36
Based on SAR and input from the Borrower (Annex B, page 10, Project Costs)



30
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million)
Local      Foreign      Total        Local        Foreign        Total
Source                  Costs       Costs                    Costs         Costs
IBRD/IDA                   12.4        30.1         42.5         6.94         30.84          37.77
EDCF                       4.3          10.2        14.5         4.12          12.99         17.11
Domestic Contribution      13.5         0.0         13.5         8.76          0.00          8.76
TOTAL                     30.2        40.3         70.5        19.81         43.83         63.64



31
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
A revised ERR has been calculated for the road investments. The SAR showed an overall ERR of 33% for
the project, with a range for specific road links from 22% to over 80%. The Borrower has prepared a
recalculation of the project's economic costs and benefits. This shows the overall rate of return has been
recalculated as 52% with rates of return ranging from 21% to 125% for specific road links. The table below
summarizes the results by road link. The complete results are provided in Annex C.



ERR SUMMARY BY ROAD LINK
SAR      Contract                             SAR data                 Revised Analysis    Opening Year AADT compared to  Length   Cost of    Cost
SAR       RDA                                     ID           pkg   km                 Base data           Future estimate   RDA, May 1999    SAR Base       SAR Estimate    on)   Completion   per km
Proj No.   Proi No.      Road Link                  #   km       #   ouinal    complete  AADT   rough      AADT    ERR       MDT   ERR          abs     %      abs      %             (RsDWs)  (Rs 000s)
%comp        (Dec 89) (mmkm)  (end open yr)                         chg    chg    chg    chg
31MAFR99       T3.1   T3.1       T4.1
GROUP 1 (designed before start of project)
1.1 A. C. OVERLAYS (AC)
1-1 AC             Moratuwa - Kalutara               1   28.0   3/1                        7,303   4,000      9,241  48.8%     not induded
1-2 AC    1-1 AC   Kalutara - Ambalangoda (km 46-85)   2   40.0   3/1   92.0 100%  92.0    2,678   3,900      3,197  20.5%     not induded                                      92.00
1-3 AC    1-2 AC   Ambalangoda - Galle (km 86-119)  3   33.0   3/1                         3,644   3,700      4,471  23.5%     not induded
1.2 REGULATING COURSE (RC)
1-4 RC    1-3RCAC   Katunayake- Veyangoda- Nittambuw  4   26.0   3/2                       2,299   5,200      2,908  34.4%     3,080  61.0%       781  34.09/o    172   5.9%   24.34    138,324.8   5,683.0
1-5 RC    1-4 RCAC   Toppu - Dankotuwa - Ginulla    5   32.0   3/2   76.1  99%  75.3    1,966   5,000         2,487  36.5%     2,635  38.3%       669  34.0%h    148   6.0%   31.92   201,199.2   6,303.2
1-6 RC    1-5 RCAC   Biyanwila - Ganemulla          6    8.6   3/2                         1,609   5,500      2,036  39.2%     6,964  40.1%     5,355 332.8%    4,928 242.0%     4.58    44,905.0   9,804.6
1-7 RC    1-6 RCAC   Seeduwa - Udugampola           7   12.0   3/2                         1,064   5,250      1,346  28.8%     1,426  44.8%       362  34.0%      80   5.9%    8.76    34,528.3   3,941.6
1-8 RC             Matara - Hakmana                 8   24.0   3/3                         2,374   5,400      3,007  38.2%      requested
GROUP 2 (designed after start of project
2.1 A. C. OVERLAYS (AC)
Il-l AC            Galle - Matara                   9   44.0   3/3   88.0  14%  12.3    1,906   4,500        2,415  21.2%       requested
11-2 AC   11-1 AC    Kaduwela - Hanwella           10   12.5   3/5S                        2,782   5,830     3,662  33.7%      4,295  20.9%     1,513  54.4%     633  17.3%    14.20   134,421.3   9,466.3
11-3 AC    11-2 AC    Peliyagoda - Kadawatha        11   8.0   3/SA                       22,861   4,000    30,083  65.9%    32,168  65.9%      9,307  40.7%    2,085   6.9%    8.04    152,713.2  18,994.2
11-4 AC    11-3 AC    Dehiwela - Maharagama (B)     12   7.6   3/5B                        3,662   5,800     4,819  36.0%      5,154  55.7%     1,492  40,7%     335   7.00%    7.53    64,792.2   8,604.5
Il-SAC    11-4AC    St.JosephStreet (B)             13   2.8   3/2                         7,138   6,300     9,031  98.1%      9,566 124.5%     2,428  34.0%     535   5.9%    2.64      15,988.7   6,056.3
11-6 AC    Il-S AC    Navinna - Mirihana Road       14   3.4   3/5B                        2,896   6,300     3,811  30.9%      4,074  29.0%     1,178  40.7%     263   6.9%     3.39    45,437.1  13,403.3
11-7 AC    11-6 AC    Hunupitiya-Wattala-Hendala (B)  15   4.0   3/5A                      3,570   5,350     4,698  33.5%      5,023  37.7%     1,453  40.7%     325   6.9%     3.60    39,816.7  11,060.2
11-8 AC            (Old) Chillaw Road, Negombo      16    1.3   3/2                        5,740   5,350     7,263  86.4%      7,692 105.1%     1,952  34.0%     429   5.9%     1.26      7,631.0   6,056.3
11-9 AC    11-7 AC    Katubedda - Piliyandala Road (B)  17    4.7   3/5B   26.0  99%  25.7    2,301   6,300  3,028  30.7%      3,238  29.8%      937  40.7%      210   6.9%     4.35    35,339.8   8,124.1
2.2 REGULATING COURSE (RC)
11-10RC   11-8RCAC  Matara-Didcwella(km163-183)     18  21.0   3/4                         1,595   5,200      2,020  30.2%
11-11 RC   11-9 RCAC  Dickwella - Hambantota (km 183-241) 19  59.0   3/4   83.1 100/  83.1    1,347   5,200  1,706  26.4% )  2,356  63.7%      1,009  74.9%      650  38.1%    84.02   476,564.8   5,672.0
11-12RC   11-10RCAC Matara-Akuressa                 20   21.0   3/3                        1,072   5,200      1,358  23.0%      requested
11-13 RC  11-11 RCAC Wattala - Mahara Road (B)      21    7.2   3/SA                       1,594   5,970      2,097  25.4%     2,242  51.7%       648  40.7%      145   6.9%     7.05    55,195.8   7,829.2
11-14RC   11-12RCAC Negombo-Gidulla (Main Street)    22    1.6   3/2                       2,082   5,200      2,634  41.7%     2,791  53.5%       709  34.1%      157   6.00%    2.00    12,112.6   6,056.3
no 15
11-16RC   11-13RCAC Beliatta-Tangalla               23    6.5   3/4                          814   5,200      1,031  21.9%     1,203  37.00/.     389  47.8%      172  16.7%    7.41     46,095.1   6,220.7
11-17RC  il-14RCAC Kirndiwita-Ganemulla             24    3.0   3/SA   21.3 100%  21.3    1,120   5,200       1,474  22.4%     1,576  49.9%       456  40.7%      102   6.9%    2.63     14,945.8   5,682.8
11-18 RC   dropped  Isurupaya - Pannipitiya         25    6.0   3/5                        1,747   5,700      2,299  37.3%       dropped
TOTAL                                          417.2         386.5      309.8   87,164            112,122            95,483           30,638                         309.72  1,520,011.4
TOTAL, IDAcompleted links only                                                   64,845            84,114            95,483    52%    30,638  47.2%   11,369  13.5%  217.72  1,520,011.4   6,981.5      m
NOTES & SOURCES:
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report, 03 October, 1990.
Economic Analysis - Road Development Authonty, May 1999.



33
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agree   Section  Covenant Present   Original       Revised               Description of                    Comments
rment              type     status  fulfillment  fulfillment              Covenant
date        date
Schedule     05        C                              Establish and maintain a PMMU with  Fulfilled
4(1)                                                  responsibilities, staff, resources and
powers satisfactory to IDA
Schedule     05        C    09/30/1991                Borrower shall employ consultant as an Fulfilled
4(2)                                                  advisor to PMMU.
Schedule     09        C    09/30/1991                Borrower shall furnish to IDA for    Fulfilled
4(3)                                                  review and agreement and annual
action plan for the implementation of
the project
Schedule     12       CD    04/15/1991                Borrower shall employ consultant by   Fulfilled
(4)(a)                                                04/15/91 to complete Road User
l ______                                              Charges Study.
Schedule     12       CD    05/15/1991                Borrower shall employ consultants by   Fulfilled
4(4)(b)                                               05/15/91 to complete Construction
l______   _______   ______   ________                 Industry  Study.
Schedule     12       CD    09/30/1991                Borrower shall employ consultant by   Fulfilled
4(4)(c)                                               09/30/91 to complete Construction and
Maintenance Standards Study.
Schedule     12        CP                             Borrower shall implement             All completed with except for
4(5)                                                  recommendations of the studies.      the Road User Charges Study
Section      01        CP                             Borrower shall maintain project records Fulfilled
4.01                                                  and accounts and submit and subrmitted
accounts IDA.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                    allocation
s. =  Management aspects of the project or its executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral polcy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



34
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not applicable in this project



35
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                          Planned          Revised           Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                  43.5   114.0
Appraisal-Board                                                           27.0   82.8
Negotiations through Board Approval                                        8.7   26.1
Supervision                                                              147.9  447.7
Completion                                                  _              5.7   18.3
TOTAL                                                                   232.8  688.9



36
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Number                      Specialized       Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of          Month/        of          Days in        Staff Skills       tation           ment          Types of
Project Cycle        Year       Persons        Field         Represented         Status        Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal       Oct-88      2            16            ENG, HE
March-89    1           2              ENG
May-89      1           6              ENG
Nov-89      3           11             ENG, HE,
unknown
Jan-90      2           17             ENG, HE
Appraisal through       Apr-90      3            20            ENG, HE, DISB
Board Approval
March-91    2           3              ENG, HE                 2                2
Oct-91      2           12             ENG, TS                 2                2
Supervision             Jun-92      3            14            ENG, ECON                1               1
Nov-92      2           16             ECON, HE                 I               I
Apr-93      3           14             ECON, ENG                I               I
Jun-93      2           11             ECON, HE                 I               1
Dec-93      2           9              ECON, HE                2                I
Jun-94      3           11             ECON, ENG,              HS               S
HE
Mid-Term Review         Nov-94      3            16            ECON, HE (2)             S               S
March-95   3            19             TS, HE (2)               5               5
Sep-95      1           18             HE                      S                S
Jul-96      2           14             TS, HE                  S                S
Feb-97      3           13             TS, HE(2)                S               S
Jul-97      2           11             HE, PROC                 S               S
Oct-97      3           11             TS, HE, PROC             S               S
March-98   2            7              HE, PROC                 S               S
Completion              Nov-98      3           9              HE, TE, PROC             S               S
Workshop                May-99      3           5              ENG, HE, TE
Staff Skills:                                                                   Performance Ratine Key:
ECON = Economist                        HE = Highway Engineer                   HS = Highly Satisfactory
ENG = Engineer                          PROC = Procurement Specialist    S = Satisfactory
DISB = Disbursement Specialist   TS = Transport Specialist                      U = Unsatisfactory
TE = Transport Economist                                                        HU = Highly Unsatisfactory



SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CR. 2183-CE)
SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION
Aide Memoire
November 11 to 20, 1998
ANNEX A
Part 1



2
NOVEMBER 20, 1998
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CR. 2183-CE)
SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION
Aide Memoire
November 11 to 20, 1998
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    An IDA mission, comprising Messrs. Jaswant Channe (Highway Engineer, SASIN) and Bill
Denning (Transport Economist, TWUTD), visited Sri Lanka between November 11 to 20, 1998, to supervise
the Third Roads Project. Messrs. Nancy Zhao (Financial Analyst, SACCO) and Jayantha De Mel
(Procurement) of Colombo Office, also joined the mission. The main objectives of the mission were to
review the physical progress and financial status of the Project against targets, review and assess completion
of the project with respect to physical objectives and targets, disbursements, legal covenants, institutional
objectives and final costs of the project at completion, and review with the Borrower the status of preparation
of the Borrower's completion report.
2.    The mission visited project sites and held meetings with Road Development Authority (RDA) and
their consultants. A wrap-up meeting was held on November 20, 1998 under the chairmanship of Mr. W. A.
Jayasinghe, Chairman, RDA. The mission wishes to thank officials in the Ministry of Transport and
Highways (MT&H) and Road Development Authority (RDA) for the courtesies and cooperation extended to
the mission and for making appropriate arrangements for field trips.
3.    Annex-I contains a detailed status of physical progress of the project, Annex-2 is a detailed
summary of the status of the Project costs as at June 30, 1998, Annex-3 lists the principal officials met
during the mission and Annex-4 shows the details of the project components.
4.    This aide-memoire records the findings, understandings and agreements reached between the
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), RDA and the IDA mission; these are subject to review by IDA
management, and will be confirmed in writing by the Country Director for Sri Lanka.
B. IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
Summary of Project Progress and Status
5.    The original Credit closing date for the project was June 30, 1998, except for works under road
Contract No. WB3/3 and bridge Contract No. WB3/26, as well as the consultants contract for the supervision
of Contract No. WB 3/3, for which a partial extension was granted up to December 31, 1998. The civil
works component under the project progressed satisfactorily on most contracts for which the Credit closed
on June 30, 1998, except for Contracts WB3/3 and WB3/26, where negligible progress has been achieved
due to poor performance of contractors, and the lack of appropriate and timely remedial action by RDA in
resolving the difficulties experienced at these contracts caused by delays in mobilization and inefficient
project management of the contractors. These two contracts will not be completed by the extended closing
date of December 31, 1998. A detailed status of civil works component and progress to October 31, 1998 is
provided in paras. 7 to 21 and Annex- 1. As defined in the Staff Appraisal Report, various studies under the



3
project have been completed. The audit reports have been submitted on time and are satisfactory. Various
legal covenants under the Credit have also been satisfactorily complied with.
6.    Out of US$ 42.5 million total Credit amount, an amount of US$ 6.0 remained undisbursed at June
30, 1998. It is possible that out of this remaining undisbursed amount (which includes balance of US$ 0.3
million in special account), about US$ 5.6 will remain undisbursed before the extended Credit closing date.
In view of an estimated cost overrun under the project of about 16% compared to original estimates, and the
current status of slow disbursements, GOSL has submitted a request to IDA to readjust the current (October
1997) disbursement rate of 41% IDA and 59% GOSL to 68.5% and 32.5% for civil works effective October
31, 1998.
Detailed Status of Civil Works
A brief summary of progress on the on-going road works and bridge contracts to October 31, 1998 is
as follows:
7.    Road Contracts: 4 contracts (WB3/1, WB3/2, WB3/5A and WB3/4: Length 283 km) completed; I
contract (WB3/5B: 26 km) - about 24 km completed, with some minor problems on a 0.8 km section out of a
total of 4.2 km length of Kutabedda-Piliyandala road, and one contract (WB3/3: 88 km) has major
contractual problems and may not be completed even before the extended Credit closing date of December
31, 1998. (see paras. 9 & 10).
8.    Contract WB3/2 - 79 km - (ITASRIJ V.): (Estimated total cost Rs. 655 million)
All works under this contract were completed in March, 1998, the extended time for contract
completion being July 31, 1997. The Employer has deducted liquidated damages with effect from August 1,
1997 to February 3, 1998. During the maintenance period, there has been no progress on road signs and road
markings since August 18, 1998 when the contractor gave notice to RDA of his intention to commence
arbitration on all of the Engineer's decisions.
9.    Contract WB3/3 - 89 km - (BA TInternational S.p.A): (Estimated total cost to completion Rs. 340
million):
Value of physical works completed to October 31, 1998 is only about 20% against 100%
programmed, with the extended time for completion having expired on April 1, 1998. The mean monthly
output of the contractor over the last 6 months has been Rs. 0.74 million per month. By letter dated May 4,
1998, the contractor pursuant to Sub-Clause 67.1 of the Conditions of Contract, gave notice to the Employer
and the Engineer of his intention to commence arbitration on the matters set forth in the decisions of the
Engineer dated April 27, 1998 on assessment of the contractor's entitlement under Claim No. 12.
10.   RDA has advised the mission that the Employer and the contractor have continued to hold meetings
in August, September and October 1998 in an attempt to settle disputes amicably in terms of Clause 67.2 of
the conditions of Contract, but no settlement has been agreed to date. With no permanent works executed on
site after October 14, 1998, the Engineer has informed the contractor that, to all intents and purposes, the
contractor has suspended or abandoned construction of the Works on site. There is no Authorized
Representative of the contractor on site since October 12, 1998. RDA also advised the mission that the
Engineer considers that the Contractor was currently in default and the Engineer intends issuing a certificate
to this effect. The Employer has requested the Attorney General's department to look into issues relating to
the termination of this contract, and have instructed the Engineer to commence proceedings to terminate the
contract.
11.   Contract WB3/4 - 84 km - (Keangnam Enterprises Ltd.): (Estimated total cost Rs. 630 million)



4
All works under this contract were substantially complete as at September 3, 1998, the extended time
for contract completion being April 3, 1998. Miscellaneous items of works are being executed during the
maintenance period.
12.   Contract WB3/5A - 21 km - (International Construction Co. Ltd): (Total cost Rs. 320 million)
All four road sections under this contract are complete and handed over to the Employer.
13.   Contract WB3/5B - 26 km - (A.K Diyabalanage Associates): (Estimated total cost at completion Rs.
414 million)
Works under this contract are being carried out entirely by sub-contractors (ICC Ltd., Tudawe Bros.
Ltd. & Link Engineering Ltd.). All works are substantially complete, except for a small section of about 1.6
km at Katubedda-Piliyandala Road (Link Engineering), where the scope of work was increased. This road
section is expected to be completed by the revised date for completion of November 15, 1998.
14.   5 contracts (comprising 13 bridges) out of a total 8 contracts (comprising total 19 bridges) are
complete; the balance of works remaining after the original and the extended Credit closing dates, is
expected to be completed by RDA from their own resources. RDA has advised the mission that they are
going to recover the damages and losses to GOSL caused by delayed works by the contractors by enforcing
appropriate measures provided in the Conditions of Contract for these contracts.
15.   Contracts WB3/23 and WB3/24: (Bridge Nos. 1/1, 92/2, 94/1 & 8/5) - (RCDC)
All 4 bridges under these contracts were completed on August 30, 1995.
16.   Contract WB3/25: (Bridge Nos. 112/1, 12/6 & 13/1) - (Edward & Christie Pvt. Ltd)
The 3 bridges under these contracts were substantially completed on February 12, 1998.
17.   Contract WB3/26: (Bridge No. 119/1) - (Edward & Christie Pvt. Ltd.)
The progress on sinking of caisson foundations is being done manually and is extremely slow.
Physical progress to October 30, 1998 is only 25% and the extended date of completion as May 23, 1998.
This bridge cannot be completed before the Credit closing date of December 31, 1998.
18.   Contract WB3/27: (Bridge No. 4/2) - (A.K. Diyabalanage Associates)
The progress of work at this bridge has been delayed due to flooding of the river. The work is being
completed by RDA from their own resources after the Credit for this component closed on June 30, 1998.
19.   Contract WB3/29P: (Bridge Nos. 6/1, 11/1, 13/1 & 2/2)) - (A.K Diyabalanage Associates)
The work at these two bridge sites is progressing very slowly and the progress to June 30, 1998 was
only 26%. The works is being completed by RDA from their own resources after the Credit for this
component closed on June 30, 1998.
20.   Contract WB3/29Q: (Bridge Nos. 116/3, 121/3, 144/2 & 159/2) - (Edward & Christie Pvt. Ltd)
The 4 four bridges under this contract have been substantially completed in March, 1998.
21.   Contract WB3/29S: (Bridge Nos. 163/3 & 8/8) - (Edward & Christie Pvt. Ltd.)
The two bridges under this contract have been substantially completed in February, 1998.
Supervision Consultants
22.   (Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick/RDC):   RDA has advised the mission that the second extension of
consultancy services to December 31, 1998 for the supervision of road contracts is currently in the process



5
of being approved by the Cabinet. IDA had advised RDA that payments to consultants cannot be processed
until this extension is approved.
23.   Chandrasena and Partners: The consultancy contract for the supervision of bridge Contracts
WB3/25, 26 & 27 expired on June 30, 1998. RDA has taken over the supervision of works remaining under
these contracts.
Technical Standards
24.   Highway Design, Pavement Design and Bridge Design Manuals: The mission advised RDA that
IDA has received the Bridge Design Manual only; the Highway Design Manual and Pavement Design
Manuals are yet to be received.
Financial Status
25.   Based on the loan disbursement status report (November 31, 1998), about SDR 4.02 million will
remain undisbursed at Credit closing. An amount of about SDR 0.5 million is committed to be paid to the
contractors/consultants and will be disbursed as soon as the quantities and outstanding claims of the
contractors are finalized.
Financial Management
26.   Project Accounts, Audit and Review of Statements of Expenditures: The Audit Report on the
Project Accounts for year ended December 31, 1997 was received by IDA in August 1998. RDA were
advised to take necessary action to rectify the deficiency noted in the report concerning inadequate evidence
for receivables, payables, work in progress and consultancy services. The documentation under SOE
accounts were examined during the mission and was found satisfactory.
Credit Closing Date
27.   At a meeting held with the Chairman, RDA, on November 18, 1998, the Bank confirmed that the
Credit closing date of December 31, 1998 for Contracts WB3/3 and WB3/26 remains unchanged.
Reimbursement of expenditures incurred on or before the closing date of December 31, 1998 would be
allowed beyond a period of four months after the Credit closing date up to April 30, 1999.
Preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
28.   The mission reviewed data made available by RDA and requested to provide the following
additional data: (i) RDA expenditures for routine and for periodic maintenance, both over the last several
years and projected for the next 3-5 years, for the country as a whole and, if possible, broken out for the
Hambantota, Matara, Galle, Kalutara, Colombo, Ratnapura, and Gampaha districts. (ii) the RDA will supply,
by the end of November 1998, the needed regular traffic count, special traffic count, axle load, and
roughness surveys to enable consultants to conduct the revised economic evaluation. The RDA will arrange
to have the revised economic evaluation completed in draft form by February 15, 1999 and in final form by
March 1, 1999. Terms of reference for the economic evaluation were provided to RDA to allow them to
engage consultants.



6
Borrowers Contribution to ICR
29.   The mission advised RDA that in accordance with the the "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements", the Borrower is required to prepare its own evaluation report on the
project and submit this to the Bank by March 1, 1999. The evaluation report/summary, which is attached
unedited to the ICR should include:
(i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, irnplementation and operation experience;
(ii) an evaluation of Borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and
(iii) the evaluation of the performance of the Bank and any co-financiers during the evolution and
irnplementation of the project, including effectiveness of the relationship among the Borrower, the
Bank and co-financiers, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
Sustainable Maintenance
30.   During the last mission in October 1997, IDA had requested RDA to provide information/data on
arrangements for maintaining the completed facilities and regarding the adequacy of routine and periodic
maintenance allocations in the upcoming budget. RDA advised the mission that this information will be
provided to IDA by December 15, 1998.
GOSL's Future Plans for the Roads Sector.
31.   The question of priority investments for future road work was discussed with officials the
Department of External Resources and the National Planning Department in the Ministry of Finance and
Planning and staff of the Road Development Authority (RDA) and the Southern Provincial Road
Development Authority. The priorities described are:
-*    a new 6-lane highway linking Colombo with Katunayake, the location of the international airport, to
be implemented by GOSL through BII and RDA;
*    Southern Expressway Development Project - Feasibility completed under TA from ADB;
*    Colombo-Kandy Highway - Pre-feasibility underway - SIDA funding;
*    Southern Province Road Improvement Project - ADB funded project implemented under PRDA for
improvement of Class C and D roads.
Other priorities described were the Outer Circular Road for Colombo, the southern extension of Base Line
Road in Colombo, extending the program of provincial highway rehabilitation to Western, Uva, and North-
Central Provinces, widening of the A4 Highway from 2 to 4 lanes between Kirillapona (in Colombo) to just
beyond Homagama, and relocating a slip-prone section of Highway A4 between Beragala and Wellawaya.
There was also some discussion of a new road on an interior alignment to provide tea producers with better
access to Colombo. This would start at Morawaka in Matara District and pass near Neluwi, Pelawatta,
Matugama, and then to Colombo. An improved access road from Elpitiya to route A2 at Bentara was
suggested. A major rehabilitation of the Colombo-Trincomalee highway was also suggested, possibly as an
extension or a "Y" off the Colombo-Kandy project.
C. SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AGREED
32.   The following next steps were agreed:
a)    Send to IDA final copies of the standard manuals for Highway  December 1, 1998



7
Design, Bridge Design, Construction & Maintenance and
Pavement Design
b)    Provide maintenance strategy and data                          December 15, 1998.
c)    Send to IDA GOSL's contribution to ICR, including             March 1, 1999
economic evaluation.
Mr. W. A. Jayasinghe                                         Jaswant Channe
Chairman                                                  Task Leader
Road Development Authority                               (IDA Supervision Mission)
November 20, 1998
m:\amnov98.doc



8
ANNEX-1
THIRD ROADS PROJECTROADS PROJECTPROJECT
DETAILED STATUS OF PHYSICAL PROGRESS OF PROJECT
1.1.    The overall status of the project road and bridge components as at October 31, 1998 is as follows:
Contract     f           Contractor    Supervision     Tender    Cost of   Start   Completion    Progress
No.          Length                   Consultant    Amount   Compl.   Date           Date          To
km)                 l                 (Rs. m.)                      (Revised)      Date
CONTRACTS WHICH LOAN AGREEMENT ENDED ON 30TH JUNE 1998.
Road Contracts
WB3/1   (EDFC          92       Keangnam         KCI            845.60    809.00   1/1/91    12/30/94       100%
Funded)             (Korea)
WB3/2                 66.12    ITASRI JV      SWKP/RDC          489.43  * 655.00  1/21/92    11/30/96       99%
(Italy)                                                  (31/07/97)
WB3/3-P1              44        SD & CC      SWKP/RDC           26.56     16.00 12/28/94 31 Dec. 1995      100%
(Sri Lanka)                                                            I
WB3/3-P2              44          UTE        SWKP/RDC           41.94     20.00 12/28/94 31 May 1996       100%
(Sri Lanka)                                             I
WB3/4                  83       Keangnam      SWKP/RDC          483.64    630.00   9/5/95    9/4/97         94%
(Korea)                                                   (13/04/98)
WB3/5A                21.23       ICC         SWKP/RDC          315.75    320.00 12/19/94    12/18/96       100%
(Sri Lanka)                                                (02/05/97)
WB3/5B                25.94      AKDA            RDA            366.95 8 414.00 12/18/94    8/31/97          90%
(Sri Lanka)      (From: 30/09/98)                          (30/04/98)
Bridge Contracts      No. of
Bridges
WB3/23                  1        RC&DC          C & P            20.30     50.00 5/20192    8/30/95       100%
(Sri Lanka).
WB3/24                  3        RC&DC          C & P            29.00            5120/92    8/30/95         100%
________  (Sri Lanka)
WB3/25                  3        E & C           RDA             29.30   * 30.00  7/13/95    12/2/97        100%
___________________  ________  (Sri Lanka)       (From: 30/06/98)
WB3/27   Br. 4/2        1        AKDA            RDA      T      18.70   * 23.00  8/18/95   12/31/98         45%
(Sri Lanka)      (From: 30/06/98)
WB3/29P Br. 6/1         4        AKDA            RDA             45.70   * 55.00  5/30/95    5/29/97    25%
Br. 11/1             (Sri Lanka)       (From: 30/06/98)                          (31/01/98)   30%  27%
Br. 13/1                                                                                     45%
Br. 2/2                                                                                        Deleted
WB3/29Q                 4        E & C           RDA             27.40     28.00  5/30/95    5/29/97         100%
I______________  ___________  _________        (31/01/98)
WB3/29S                 2        E & C           RDA             28.30     26.00  5/30/95    5/29/97         100%
I___________________  I_____I  ________                                (31/01/98)
CONTRACTS WHICH LOAN AGREEMENT ENDS ON 31ST DECEMBER 1998.
Road Contract
WB3/3                  88       BAT Inter.    SWKP/RDC          463.391 * 615.00   2/6/961   9/4/97          22%
I             (Italy)                  l                               (391/03/98)
Bridge Contract
WB3/26   Br. 119/1      1        E&C       I    RDA              25.20   * 33.001 7/13/951   5/23/98         18%
l        | (Sri Lanka)  |     (From: 30/06/98)    l                    (31/05/98)
* - Estimated cost at Completion



9
ANNEX 3
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
LIST OF OFFICIALS MET
Ministry of Finance & Planning
Mr. Faiz Mohideen         Director General, Department of External Resources
Ms. P. Alailima           Director General, National Planning Department
Ms. N. Madanayaka          Director, World Bank Division for DG/ERD
Ms. M. Dissanayake        National Planning Department
Ministry of Transport and Highways
Mr. G. Hewagama            Secretary
Road Development Authority
Mr. W.A. Jayasinghe        Chairman, RDA
Mr. P.B.L. Cooray          General Manager
Mr. D.B. Wanasinghe        Director, Contracts Management Division
Mr. P. Gunawardena         Add. Director, Contracts Management Division
Mr. D.H.R. Fernando        Deputy Director, Contract Management Division
Mr. D.G.S. Chandralal      Chief Engineer, WB3/3 & WB3/4
Mrs. C. Perera             Chief Engineer, WB3/5B
Mr. K. Fernando            Director, Programming and Planning Division
Mr. L. Rajapakse           Director, Maintenance Management and Construction Division
Project Management and Monitoring Unit (PMMU)
Mr. D.G.S. Chandralal      Chief Engineer, Roads, RDA.
Mr. R.J. Naotunna          Engineer, PMMU.
Attorney General's Department
Mr. A. Goonerathne         Deputy Solicitor General
Mr. A. Gunawansa           State Counsel
Transport Studies and Planning Center (TSPC)
Mr. D.S. Jayaweera         Deputy Director, Planning
Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners/Resource Development Consultants Ltd.
(Supervision of Road Contracts)
Mr. G. Thomas             'Engineer', (SWK)
Mr. C. Tolley              Engineer's Representative (SWK)
Mr. N. Curtin              Resident Engineer, WB3/3 & WB3/4 (SWK)
Mr. M.J. Pickup                   Contracts (SWK)
Mr. A. R. N. Perera        Managing Director, RDC
Mr. A. Gamoathighe         Social Impact Specialist



10
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
PROJECTS COMPONENTS
Contract WB3/1
Moratuwa - Galle - A2 (92.0 km) (completed under EDFC Funding)
Contract WB3/2
Thoppu - Dankotuwa - Giriulla - B419 & B308 - (31.93 kin)
Nittambuwa - Veyangoda - Katunayake - B 17 - (26.28 km)
Seeduwa - Udugampola - B400 - (6.81 km)
Biyanwila - Ganmulla- B058 - (8.41 km)
Ngombo Town Roads - B322, 261 &407 - (11.94 km)
Contract WB3/3
Galle - Matara - A2 - 45.8 km.)
Matara - Akuressa - A24 - (21.0 kmn)
Matara - Hakmana - B57 - (22.0 kin.)
Contract WB3/4
Matara - Hambantota - A2 - (76.0 km)
Tangalle - Beliatta - B55 - (7.4 km)
Contracts WB3/5A
Peliyagoda - Kadawatha - AA001 - (8.02 km)
Hendala - Hunupitiya - B151 - (3.6 km)
Watala - Mahara - B460 - (7.03 km)
Kirindiwita - Ganemulla - B226 - (2.63 km)
Contract WB3/5B
Dehiwela - Maharagama - B094 - (4.15 km)
Hanwella - Kaduwela - AB01O - (14.2 km)
Katubedda - Piliyandala - B295 & B204 - (4.1 km)
Nawinna -Mirhana - B291 - (3.4 km)



II
Bridge Contract WB3/23 and WB3/24
Bridge No. 1/1 on Nittembua - Veyangoda Road
Bridge No. 92/2 & 94/1 on Colombo - Galle - Hambantota - Wellawaya Road
Bridge No. 8/5 On Matara - Akuressa Road
Bridge Contract WB3/25
Bridge No. 112/1 on Colombo - Galle - Hambantota - Wellawaya Road
Bridge No. 12/6 & 13/1 on Matara - Hakmana Road
Bridge Contract WB3/26
Bridge No. 119/1 on Colombo - Galle - Hambantota - Wellawaya Road
Bridge Contract WB3/27
Bridge No. 4/2 on Wattala - Mahara Road
Bridge Contract 29P
Bridge Nos. 6/1, 11/1 & 13/1 on Katunayake - Nittambua Road
Bridge No. 2/2 on Hunupitia - Hendala Road
Bridge Contract 29Q
Bridge Nos. 116/1, 121/3, 144/2 and 159/2 on Colombo - Galle - Hambantota - Wellawaya Road
Bridge Contract 29 S
Bridge No. 163/3 on Colombo - Galle - Hambantota - Wellawaya Road
Bridge No. 8/8 on Matara - Hakmana Road
NOTE:
Bridge Contracts WB3/21, 22 & 28
Bridge Nos. 51/1, 54/4 and 45/5 originally in EDFC contract were excluded from the project.



SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CR. 2183-CE)
ICR DISCUSSION MISSION
Aide Memoire
May 17 to 21, 1999
ANNEX A
Part 2



2
MAY 21. 1999
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CR. 2183-CE)
ICR DISCUSSION MISSION
Aide Memoire
May 17 to 21, 1999
1.    An IDA mission, comprising Messrs. Jaswant Channe (Highway Engineer, SASIN), Juan Gaviria
(Senior Transport Economist, SASIN) and Bill Denning (Transport Economist, TWUTD), visited Sri Lanka
between May 17 to 21, 1999, to discuss the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third
Roads Project. The main objectives of the mission were to (i) discuss with RDA and GOSL the main
findings of the draft ICR and incorporate the Borrower's comments in the final ICR, and (ii) discuss with
RDA and key project stakeholders in a Workshop the achievements of the Project, and (iii) discuss with
GOSL future directions, dialogue and areas for IDA assistance in the road transport sector in Sri Lanka.
2.    A stakeholders workshop to discuss the ICR, arranged by the World Bank, was held at Colombo on
May 19, 1999. The mission expresses its appreciation to the Ministry of Transport and Highways (MT&H)
and in particular the Road Development Authority (RDA) and the key project stakeholders for participating
in the workshop and continue a dialogue for possible IDA assistance in the road transport sector in Sri
Lanka.
3.    The conclusions and understandings presented in this aide-memoire are subject to review by IDA
management, and will be confirmed in writing by the Country Director for Sri Lanka.
4.    ICR Workshop:        As stated above, during the mission a stakeholders Workshop was carried
out to review the ICR. A list of the participants is attached in Annex 1. The main topics of discussion
included:
*  Achievements of the Third Roads Project and summary findings from the Borrowers
contribution to the ICR (RDA)
*  Summary of findings of Implementation Completion Report, focusing on achievements
problems and lessons learnt from the Third Roads Project - (World Bank)
*  Development of the Local Contracting Industry (NCCASL)
*  Experience with Reform of Road Agencies Worldwide and Sector Policies for World Bank
funding in road projects (World Bank).
5.    Summary of Findings of the ICR: The Completion Report highlights that the overall project
rating is satisfactory. This rating was discussed in the Workshop and is based on the following:
- The project objectives were not fully achieved for civil works contracts. Only about 310 km of
roads out of 387 km planned were completed, and only 13 bridges out of 19 planned (including 1
deleted bridge) were completed;
- A Project Management and Monitoring Unit (PMMU) is fully operational and appears to continue
now in charge of all donor funded road projects;



3
- Even though the project had limited institutional development activities, the project was only
partially successful in implementation of these objectives. During the project, three main studies
were executed including: (i) Studies on Road User Charges, (ii) Domestic Road Contracting Industry
and Road Materials Design and (iii) Construction Standards satisfactorily completed. RDA is now
streamlining the findings of the studies in the design and planning activities of RDA;
- The project encouraged the development of the local contractor industry. The project was partially
successful in this objective given that two of the local contractors were not able to perforrn as
expected.
6.    Issues Raised in the Workshop: The main issues raised during the Workshop include the
following:
- in future operations a more holistic approach to design should be adopted, to address technical
(minor realignments where necessary), environmental, social (resettlement planning), relocation of
utilities, safety audit;
- RDA should put more emphasis on pre-qualification of contractors to ensure works awarded to
competent contractors who can complete the works within the contract period;
- GOSL should establish quarry sites and other material sources prior to tendering and award of
contracts;
- need to further encourage the role of local contracting industry with emphasis on training of
contractors in project management and financial control;
- RCDC has played important role and is now a mature contractor; RCDC is willing to consider
private-public partnerships including the benefits of divesting some of its shares;
- need for streamlining of procurement procedures to avoid delays in contract awards including the
empowerment of RDA to carry out decision-making;
-need for strict monitoring of poorly performing contractors and taking timely corrective action;
termination of contracts not considered a good alternative by RDA;
- need to encourage a more proactive role of consultants during project implementation and
improved relations between the employer/contractor and consultants.
7.    GOSL's Future Plans for the Roads Sector.
The question of priority investments for future road works was discussed with officials the
Department of Extemal Resources and the National Planning Department in the Ministry of Finance and
Planning and staff of the Road Development Authority (RDA). The RDA has a plan for the next decade
which will be shared with the World Bank. A rolling multi-year priority exercise is being carried out by
RDA.
8.    Some of the priorities identified by RDA for external funding are:
*    Southem Highway Development Project - Feasibility completed under TA from ADB; financing
arrangements with OECF/ADB under discussion;



4
*     a new 4-lane highway linking Colombo with Katunayake, the location of the international airport, to
be implemented by GOSL through BII and RDA; bids already received
*     the southern extension of Base Line Road in Colombo (7.4 km); financing arrangements with
OECF/ADB under discussion;
*     Outer Circular Highway for Colombo (48 km) - OECF funding under discusssion;
*     Colombo-Kandy Highway - Pre-feasibility underway - SIDA funding;
*     widening of the A4 Highway from 2 to 4 lanes between Kirillapona (in Colombo) to Homagama
(16.5 km);
*     relocating a slip-prone section of Highway A4 between Beragala and Wellawaya (45 km);
*     Katunayaka-Padeniya Highway.
9.    Other priorities described were the Southern Province Road Improvement Project - ADB funded
project implemented under Provincial RDA for improvement of Class C and D roads, and. extending the
program of provincial highway rehabilitation to Western, Uva, and North-Central Provinces,
10.   Of lesser priority, a new road on an interior alignment is being considered also to provide tea
producers with better access to Colombo. This would start at Morawaka in Matara District and pass near
Neluwi, Pelawatta, Matugama, and then to Colombo. An improved access road from Elpitiya to route A2 at
Bentara was suggested. A major rehabilitation of the Colombo-Trincomalee highway was also suggested,
possibly as an extension or a "Y" off the Colombo-Kandy project.
11.   The mission requested RDA for a copy of their recently prepared priority investment plans. Also,
RDA agreed to inform the Bank of their concrete plans to initiate a reform and modernization process of
RDA and RCDC. These documents would be considered by the Bank in discussing possible follow-up
support and assistance to the road sector.
12.   The mission also carried out discussions with RDA to prepare the proposed Workshop on Road
Finance and Management Reform which is scheduled to take place in Colombo on June 16-17, 1999. An
agenda for finance and management reform is expected to be drawn during this Workshop to provide
guidance in the process ahead.
Jaswant Channe
Task Leader
(IDA Mission)
May 21, 1999



5
ANNEX 1
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
ICR DISCUSSION WORKSHOP
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS
Ms. N. Madanayaka           Director, World Bank Division for DG/ERD
Mr. D.S. Jayaweera          Deputy Director, Planning, Ministry of Finance
Ms. M.J. Sahabandu          National Transport Commission
Mr. P. Dayananda            Ministry of Highways
Mr. R. Thabrew              Deputy Director General, Bureau of Infrastructure Investment
Mr. W.A. Jayasinghe         Chairman, RDA
Mr. D.P.C. Megooda          General Manager, RDA
Mr. W.A.S. Weerasinghe      Contracts Management Division RDA
Mr. G.S.C. Rodrigo          Contracts Management Division RDA
Mr. J. Fernando             Chairman, RCDC
Mr. A.S. Kumarage           University of Moratuwa
Mr. N.U. Mendis             Sri Lanka Railways
Mr. E. De Zylva             NCCASL & SAARC
Mr. M. Chandrasena          Chandrasena & Partners
Mr. K. P. J. Perera         Resource Development Consultants Ltd.
Mr. R.S. Jayaratne          Resource Development Consultants Ltd.
Mr. D.S. Jayeweera          Resource Development Consultants Ltd.
Mr. H. Matsunaga            OECF
Mr. J. Gaviria              World Bank (SASIN)
Mr. J. De Mel               World Bank, Colombo Office
Mr. W. Denning              World Bank (TWUTD)
Mr. J. Channe               World Bank (SASIN)



6
ANNEX 2
THIRD ROADS PROJECTROADS PROJECTPROJECT
DETAILED STATUS OF PHYSICAL PROGRESS OF PROJECT
1.1.    The overall status of the project road and bridge components as at March 31, 1999 is as follows:
Contract                   Contractor     Supervision     Tender    Cost of   Start    Completion    Progress
No.           Length                    Consultant      Amount   Compl.   Date            Date           To
(kin)                                   (Rs. m.)                         (Revised)      Date
CONTRACTS WHICH LOAN AGREEMENT ENDED ON 30TH JUNE 1998.
Road Contracts
WB3/1   (EDFC            92       Keangnam          KCI             845.60    857.84   1/1191    12130/94         100%
Funded)              (Korea)
WB312                  76.10     ITASRI JV      SWKP/RDC            489.43    639.88  1/21/92    11/30/96         100%
(Italy)                                                     (31/07/97)
WB3/3-PI                 44        SD & CC       SWKP/RDC            26.56     16.00 12/28/94 31 Dec. 1995        100%
(Sri Lanka)                                       I_                      I
WB3/3-P2               44           UTE        SWKPIRDC            41.94      20.00 12/28/94 31 May 1996         100%
(Sri Lanka)
WB3/4                    83       Keangnam      SWKP/RDC            483.64    645.46   9/5195     9/4/97           100%
(Korea)                                                      (13/04/98)
WB3/5A                 21.23         ICC        SWKPIRDC            318.75    310.00 12/19194    12/18/96          100%
(Sri Lanka)                                                   (02/05197)
WB3/5B                 25.94       AKDA             RDA             366.95 * 414.00 12/18/94    8/31/97            99%
(Sri Lanka)       (From: 30/09/98)                             (15/11/98)
Bridge Contracts       No. of
*                     Bridges
WB3/23                     1      RC&DC           C & P            20.30}      48.41  5/20/92    8/30/95        100%
(Sri Lanka)  |I_
WB3/24                   3         RC&DC           C & P            29.00}             5/20/92    8/30/95          100%
(Sri Lanka)                 .          }
|WB3/25                  3          E & C           RDA              29.30     25.26  7/13/95    12/2/97           100%
(Sri Lanka)       (From: 30/06/98)                  _
|WB3/27   Br. 4/2        1         AKDA             RDA       |      18.70   * 23.00  8/18/95    12/31/98          65%
I   | (Sri Lanka)  |  (From: 30/06/98)
WB3/29P  Br. 6/1         4         AKDA             RDA       J      45.70   * 55.00  5/30/95    5129/97    52%
Br. 11/1               (Sri Lanka)        (From: 30/06/98)                            (31/01/98)   40%  27%
Br. 13/1   |                                                     _          _    _                 85%
Br. 2/2     (deleted)                _               _           _                                   Deleted
WB3/29Q                  4         E & C            RDA              27.40     28.00  5/30/95    5/29/97           100%
1                                                     _          _  _       (21/11/97)
WB3/29S                  2         E & C            RDA              28.30     24.32  5/30/95    5/29/97           100%
I                        I               I           I                   1  (27/11/97)
CONTRACTS WHICH LOAN AGREEMENT ENDS ON 31ST DECEMBER 1998.
Road Contract
WB313                    88       BAT Inter.  I SWKP/RDC            463.391 * 615.001  2/61961    9/4/97           22%
|    (Italy)                    _                                           (31/03/98)
Bridge Contract
WB3/26   Br. 119/1       1         E & C            RDA              25.20   * 33.001 7/13/95|   5/23/98           38%
| (Sri Lanka)        (From: 30/06/98)                             (23/05/98)
* - Estimated cost at Completion



GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND HIGHWAYS
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CR. 2183-CE)
BORROWERS EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
ROADS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ANNEX B



2
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
BORROWERS EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
The Credit agreement for funding the Third Roads Project was approved by the IDA and signed between
the World Bank and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 30b
November 1990 for a sum of SDR equivalent 30.6 Million (US $ 42.5 Million). A further sum of U.S.$
14.5 Million was co-financed by EDCF and these funds were used to finance the first contract to be
awarded. Contribution made by the Sri Lanka Government is US $ 13.5 Million. Loan period was fixed
as 7 years 7 months ending in 30h June 1998. However some of the contracts awarded were not
completed by this day. The World Bank agreed for an extension of loan closing date up to 3 1st December
1998 on one ICB and one LCB contract.
The project's objectives were to: (a) reduce the road transport cost and delays of passenger and goods
transportation by restoring major trunk roads to better operational condition; (b)help to restore priority
road infrastructure damaged by flooding and landslide in May/June 1989; (c) enhance the institutional
capabilities to increase the quality and extent of road maintenance and rehabilitation; and improve
technical standard; and find out more efficient and cost effective method to use locally available
materials and (d) upgrade RDA's capacity to supervise and execute rehabilitation works and to identify
actions needed to develop the local road contracting industry.
ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project objectives have been defined with a clear sense of reality, taking into consideration the vital
importance of the road transport sector and its contribution to the development activities of the country.
Road transport is essentially the main mode of Internal transport for goods and passengers in the country
with other forms of transport like water, air, excepting railways, only contributing in a very minor way.
Railway system has been in use for over one hundred years now, but it has not made any significant
improvement over to recent past and has taken a second place in the transport system. As such road
transport is the main mode of transport in the country providing access to cities, towns and the villages in
varying levels of service.
Damaged or highly uneven road surfaces cause significant increases in vehicle operation costs due to
increased tyre wear, reduced fuel efficiency and increased vehicle damage. It can also contribute to
vehicle accidents and make the road unsafe for its users.
Improving the strength and riding quality of the roads is therefore of vital importance to the economic
progress of the country. For the successful implementation of the national master plan for development;
a sound road network infrastructure is essential. Thus the objectives of this project can be considered as
an aim to fulfill this requirement in some measure.
Sri Lanka has a total road length of around 97400 km of which around Km 10400 are categorized as
Class A or B Roads which are maintained by the Road Development Authority (RDA), an institution
specifically established for fulfilling this Task. The functions of the RDA is to maintain the existing
arterial network and to improve its quality and standards to such levels so as to enable these roads to be



3
able to cater for the increased loads and volume of vehicles that can be anticipated in the future taking
the development plans and potentials into consideration. To achieve this, it is very important to make
this organization fully capable of using modem technologies available in the field of road and bridge
design, maintenance and construction. Thus the proposal to enhance the organization capability under
this project is very important and welcome.
Construction, Rehabilitation and Maintenance of roads consume a large quantity of local material such as
earth, gravel, metal etc. Earth for embankment filling, Gravel for sub base and base construction and
Metal for base, and wearing course works either in asphalt concrete or an SBST or DBST. Quality
requirements of these materials vary depending on the item of work for which it is used.
Therefore it is very important to identify the quality of these materials available in different areas or
locations, thereby enabling suitable materials to be easily resourced for works. At the same time the
development of design standards and specifications to suite the use of these locally available materials is
envisaged as a part of this project. This can be considered as a vital exercise as the cost benefits in road
transportation can be greatly improved by the proper and technically correct use of locally available
materials.
PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATIONAND APPRAISAL
Identification of roads for improvement is essentially based on the volume of traffic its composition and
the present condition of the road. Initially this identification is done in the RDA and subsequently an
International Consultant is selected with the Bank concurrence for undertaking a pre-feasibility. Upon its
successful completion and based on the findings and the recommendations, a feasibility and a detailed
engineering study of the project is undertaken by the consultant. These exercises were satisfactorily
carried out and implementation of the project was approved by the Government and the Bank after
careful review of the consultants findings and recommendations.
Geometric alignment of the roads in this project could not be improved since land acquisition was not
accommodated in the feasibility report. Improvement of the road surface without the improvement in
geometric alignment of the road has led to many accidents. It is strongly felt that this type of situation
should be avoided in future projects.
Following roads and bridges were included into this project after review by the Bank.
1. Part of A2 road from Moratuwa - Galle - Matara - Dickwella - Hambantota - 225 Km
2. Following road sections in the Southern province
Matara - Akuressa road           -      21  Km
Matara - HakmanaRoad             -      24  Km
Tangalle - Beliatta Road         -       6.5 Km
51.5 Km
3. Following road Sections in the Western Province
Kaduwela - Hanwella road         -      12.5 Km
Toppu-Dankotuwa-Girulla Road     -      32.0 Km
Peliyagoda-Kadawatha Road        -       8.0 Km
Dehiwela-Maharagama Road         -       7.6 Km
Navinna-Mirihana Road            -       3.4 Km
Hunupitiaya-Hendala Road         -       4.0 Km



4
Katubedda-Piliyandala Road       -       4.7 Km
Wattala-Mahara Road               -      7.2 Km
Katunayake-Nittambuwa Road -            26.0 Km
Biyanwilla-Ganemulla Road        -       3.0 Km
Seeduwa - Udugampola Road  -            12.0 Km
Isurupaya-Pannipitiya Road        -      6.0 Km
126.4 Km
4. Following road Sections in the Negombo Town in the Western Province
Along Negombo-Giriulla Road -             1.6 Km
Along Chillaw Road, Negombo -            1.3 Km
St. Joseph Street, Negombo       -       2.8 Km
5.7Km
All the above road sections were found to be in a severely distressed condition with an International
Roughness Index of around 3500 to 6000mm/km. In most cases the carriageway edges have failed
reducing its effective width, side drains are mostly blocked or non existing and most culverts are blocked
and non functioning.
5. Repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction of the following bridges.
Bridge Nos. 45/5, 51/1, 54/4, 56/2, 92/2, 94/1, 112/1,116/3, 119/1, 121/3, 144/2, 159/2
and 163/3 on Colombo-Galle-Hambantota-Wellawaya Road.
Bridge Nos. 6/1, 11/1, 13/1 and 1/11 on Katunayake-Nittambuwa Road
Bridge Nos. 8/8, 12/6 and 13/1 on Matara-Hakmana Road
Bridge No. 2/2 on Hunupitiya - Hendala Road
Bridge No. 8/5 on Matara-Akuressa Road
Bridge No. 42/2 on Wattala-Mahara Road
Bridge No. 1/3 on Kiridiwita-Ganemulla Road
The existing bridges are either, steel, reinforced concrete or of prestressed concrete construction. Level
of improvement in each case was determined according to the present level of deterioration.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Several contracts were awarded for the implementation of the project as follows:
Four ICB Contracts
1.    Contract No. WB3/1   -     Panadura - Galle Road
2.    Contract No. WB3/2   -      Toppu-Dhankotuwa-Giriulla Road
Katunayake-Veyangoda-Nittambuwa Road



5
Seeduwa-Udugampola Road, Biyanwila-
Ganemulla road, Negombo Town Rds.
3.    Contract No. WB3/3   -     Galle-Matara, Matara-Akuressa and Matara-
Hakmana Roads. Paving works
4.    Contract No. WB3/4   -     Matara-Hambantota and
Tangalle-Beliatta Roads
Twelve LCB Contracts
1.    Contract No. WB3/3-P1-     Preliminary works on Galle-Matara Road
2.    Contract No. WB3/3-P2-     Preliminary works on Matara-Akuressa and
Matara - Hakmana Road
3.    Contract No. WB3/5A  -     Peliyagoda-Kadawatha Road
Hendala-Hunupitiya, Wattala-Mahara
and Kirindiwita-Ganemulla Road
4.    Contract No. WB3/5B - Kaduwela-Hanwella Road
Dehiwela-Maharagama Road
Katubedda-Piliyandala Road
Nawinna-Mirihana Road
5.    Contract No. WB3/23- Bridge No. 1/1 on Katunayake-
Nittambuwa Road
6.    Contract No. WB3/24- Bridge Nos. 92/2, 94/1 on Colombo-Galle-
Hambantota Road and Bridge No. 8/5 on
Matara-Akuressa Road
7.    Contract No. WB3/25- Bridge No. 112/1 on Colombo-Galle-
Hambantota Road
Bridge No. 12/6 and 13/1 on Matara-Hakmana Road
8.    Contract No. WB3/26- Bridge no. 119/1 on Colombo-Galle-
Hambantota Road
9.    Contract No. WB3/27- Bridge No. 4/2 on Wattala-Mahara Road
10.   Contract No. WB3/29P-Bridge Nos. 6/1,11/1,13/1 on Katunayake-
Nittambuwa Road
Bridge No. 2/2 on Hendala-Hunupitiya Rd
11.   Contract No. WB3/29Q-      Bridge No.8/8 on Matara-Hakmana Road
and Bridge No. 163/3 on Colombo-Galle-
Hambantota-Wellawaya Road
12.   Contract No. WB3/29S-Bridge Nos. 116/3, 121/3, 144/3 and
159/2  on   Colombo-Galle-Hamabantota-Wellawaya
Road.
Rehabilitation and improvement of 387 km of Class A & B roads and the reconstruction or rehabilitation
of 19 No. bridges on the National road network were identified to be done under this project. Four
contracts of total value Rs 2.28 Billion were tendered on ICB conditions and 12 contracts of total value
Rs. 860 Million were tendered on LCB condition. Contractors were selected by a tender board on the
recommendations made by a technical evaluation commnittee who have evaluated the tenders based on a
stipulated criteria. World Bank approval was obtained prior to award.



6
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
At the time of loan closing a total length of 310 Km of road and 13 No. Bridges have been completed
satisfactorily out of a planned length 387 km of road and 19 bridges.
Out of the 12 LCB contracts awarded, 8 contracts were completed satisfactorily without many problems
before the extended loan closing date. Four of the LCB contracts could not be completed before the loan
closing date. These contracts are not yet completed at the time this Implementation Completion Report is
been prepared. This is very unfortunate since the burden of completing these contracts have now fallen
into the hands of the Sri Lanka Government which is already experiencing a lot of difficulties in
maintaining its road network properly due to shortage of funds.
Of the 4 ICB contracts awarded, one was completed satisfactorily ahead of schedule. A second contract
was completed with several months extension. A third was completed after the contractor was awarded a
negotiated settlement and a lengthy extension of time. This contract dragged on for over 3 1/2 years
beyond the originally stipulated date for contract completion. The 4t contract was not completed and it
had to be terminated as the engineer certified default of the contractor and the contractor failed to
convince the employer of his ability to proceed with the work with due diligence despite providing an
opportunity for him to do so,
Unfortunately the two contracts that proved most troublesome were both awarded to contractors of the
same country (Italy) and it so happened that the persons involved in both contracts were the same even
under two different company names. It is to be stated that the award of the 4t ICB contract to this
contractor was not recommended by the Technical Evaluation Committee or the Tender Board. However
due to the strict Bank guidelines this had to be awarded despite the fact that the rates quoted were far
below Engineer's estimate.
The work on the 4th ICB contract was severely delayed and the contractor could not complete the work.
This contractor could do only 22% of the physical work during the whole of the contract period. He had
a valid extension for a period of 55 days given by the engineer. Contractor disputed certain decisions of
the engineer and requested for an amicable settlement with the employer. The discussions that followed
did not come to a satisfactory conclusion resulting in the employer having no alternative but to terminate
the contract. This was a complete disaster for the government as the loan period also had ended by this
time. The government thus got saddled with a multiple problem of; i.) having to implement the balance
works on the contract; ii) having to maintain the existing road that was badly neglected by the contractor
during the period it was in his possession; iii) having got to find funds from the government budget to
implement these works as the contractor has brought in an injunction to prevent encashment of the
performance bond and the advance payment bond.
Despite the bad performance by a few of the contractors the project had some positive results in the way
of satisfactorily completing 310 km of road rehabilitation and 13 bridges at a total cost of around Rs.
3.20 Billion.
Loan funds were not fully utilized at the time of the loan closing. Total expenditure incurred on Civil
works at the time of loan closing is Rs. 3.22 Billion of this expenditure a total of Rs. 2.16 Billion has
been paid from the loan. The balance payments have been made by the Sri Lanka Government. The
component of the payments made by the Government is thus 35%, which is very much higher than the
proportion 22 % stipulated to be met by the Government in the loan agreement. This is very unfortunate
particularly because at the time of loan closing a substantial amount of funds were remaining unutilized.



7
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING UNIT
The loan agreement provided for the establishment of a Project Management and Monitoring Unit
(PMMU) in the RDA to enable the activities of the project to be coordinated so that implementation of
these are carried out according to a cost effective programme. This unit was staffed by an internationally
recruited management adviser and two senior engineers nominated by RDA.
The provision for the services of the adviser was available only for two years, and with an extension of
one year the services of the international adviser ended in April 1995. Thereafter the function of the
PMMU was carried out by the RDA staff. The assistance of a local engineer was also obtained as a
consultant for a limited period in order to assist in the preparation of the project quarterly report, the
financial forecast of which is prepared using an excel based computer programme.
Even though the functioning of the unit faltered with the departure of the International adviser, it
improved subsequently and carried out the functions satisfactorily.
STUDIES UNDERTAKEN
One component of the project was to carry out three separate studies, as follows:
1. Road User Charges
2. Domestic Road Contracting Industry
3. Road Materials Design and Construction Standards.
All these studies have been satisfactorily completed. Road user charges Study was carried out by the
Transport Sector Planning Centre (TSPC) assisted by a Consultant Mr. P. Aldridge. This work has been
completed in October 1992.
The Domestic Contracting Industry Study has been carried out by the Institute for Construction Training
and Development (ICTAD). This study has been completed in September 1992 with the submission of
the final report.
The Road Materials, Design and Construction Standards Study has been carried out inhouse with the
assistance of three International Consultants fielded by Renardet S.A. The study with the International
Consultants ended in August 1996. Incorporation of the findings and recommendations of this study into
RDA use is been done by RDA. Following documents have already been issued in this respect.
1. Geometric Design Standard of Road
2. Bridge Design Manual
3. Bridge Construction Manual
4. Bridge Maintenance Manual
Issue of the following Documents is pending.
1. Inventory of Road Construction Materials, Manual of Unified Set of Standards
2. Amendments to Standards Specifications for Road Construction and Maintenance
for Roads and Bridges (1989) - Pavement section



8
IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION EXPERIENCE
Substantial delays were encountered in implementing some of the contracts. In most instances these are
attributed to contractors poor performance due to slow mobilization and not providing the necessary
funds to meet the costs to be incurred at the site, due to contractors financial difficulties.
In some instances contractors failed to find correct type of local materials in the near vicinity of the
project works. Due to their reluctance to resource materials from further interior locations the
contractors failed to perform these items of work, and instead sought for alternative, not so superior,
methods of construction and reduced specifications.  These activities contributed to the delays
considerably in these contracts.
Problems encountered at metal quarries caused delays in several contracts. The extended time period
required to obtain all the necessary approvals for quarry license and blasting material permits
necessitated the contractors to seek alternative sources for these materials in the open market. Finding
good quality materials in these instances was not easy and sometime contractors had to bring materials
from fairly long distances.
Under the project the structural strength of the road and the riding quality of its surface was substantially
improved thereby making these sections of road much safer and reduced vehicle operating cost. An
economic analysis conducted on the completed sections of road has shown that the economic rate of
return is acceptable varying from 14.4% and 53.0%. Thus the project objective of reduced operational
cost has been achieved.
In several contracts the contractors were subjected to recovery of liquidated damages. We feel the
contractors in general should have managed the contracts more effectively and kept as close as possible
to the original schedules. The consultants on the other hand should have assisted the contractors in
completing the works in time. Strained relationships between the contractor and the consultants were
noticed in some instances. These have contributed to the delay to some extent.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
A total of 310 km of road and 13 No bridges were completed and these were handed over to the
Maintenance Management and Construction Division of RDA, which division is responsible for the
maintenance of these facilities. Funds for maintenance are separately provided annually under the
maintenance budget.
Maintenance funds generally get distributed on a provincial basis and within the province according to
the need of the situation. Mostly, damage to roads occurs during the rainy season and priority is given to
maintain the damaged areas. In addition sand sealing of the carriageway surface is carried out generally
according to a programme. Thus the road network coming under the purview of the RDA is fairly well
looked after.
PROJECT COVENANTS
The loan has specified certain Financial Covenants to be adhered to by the borrower and on behalf of the
Government, Road Development Authority (RDA) has fully complied with these requirements.
Proper record of all financial transactions and payments has been maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices. All accounts have been annually audited by the Government General Audit and
these reports have been submitted to the Bank in accordance with the stipulated covenants. The report



9
for the year ending 31.12.1997 has been submitted to the Bank in August 1998. All accounting records
have been made available to the bank missions.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A Project Management and Monitoring unit (PMMU) was established in the RDA with an international
consultant as its Team Leader and assisted by two senior engineers from the RDA. The International
Consultant served for a period of 3 years and thereafter the Management Functions were taken over by
the RDA engineers. They performed this task quite satisfactorily. However the problems encountered
with some of the contracts towards the latter part of the project were beyond their capacity to resolve, as
these problems were centered round the poor performance of the contractors.
The purchase of two computers for the PMMU helped some of the engineers to become conversant in the
application of computer programs for project work.
The various documents produced under the three studies will prove to be very useful for the engineers in
the organization.
CONCLUSION
The loan period ended on 31.12.1998 after an extension of 6 months period, from the original loan
closing date. However the project work were not fully completed by this time. Some contracts are still
continuing and some contractors have notified of their intention to go for arbitration. As such the
activities of the project are still far from concluded. As the Bank has closed the loan, all future expenses
will have to be met by the Government. This will no doubt be a great financial burden on the
Government of Sri Lanka.
The Bank has greatly assisted and supported the project with regular review missions, each time giving
good advice and encouragement to the project staff. The Government of Sri Lanka and RDA, the
implementing agency is very much thankful to the very valuable service rendered and the corporation
provided by the IDA, the Consultants, Contractors and all other Agencies, Organization and Individuals
who participated in the implementation of this project.



10
ANNEX 1 - PROJECT COSTS
Project Costs
(all in million SRs.)
Item                             Local        Foreign       Total
Cost         Cost         Cost
Roads                            1,022         2,047        3,069
Bridges                           115           130          245
Flood Rehabilitation               10           35            45
Equipment                          2.26          4.20         6.46
Technical Assistance               10.9         330.0        340.9



11
ANNEX 2 - RDA OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR MAINTENANCE
The completed roads and bridges handed over to the Maintenance Division of RDA will become the
responsibility of that division for maintenance. In order to satisfactorily accomplish this, RDA is
provided with an annual budget for road maintenance. The details of the allocations and the expenditure
made over the part years from 1993 to 1999 and the anticipated allocations for year 2000 to 2004 are as
indicated below:
Maintenance Allocations for 1993 to 1999 - Routine Maintenance
Year  Maintenance   Expenditure         Expenditure  Length Of
Allocation     SLR (Mill         US$(Million)  Roads Km
SLR(Mil)
1993    195.85             189.56       3.95             10960
1994    198.08             161.10       3.29            11076
1995    208.31             204.42       3.99            11076
1996    278.19             243.71       4.41            11152
1997    279.56            276.04        4.68            11152
1998    278.57            265.39        3.93            11152
1999    315.31               -           -              11152
Maintenance Allocation from 1993 to 1999 - Periodic Maintenance
Year  Allocation    Expenditure  Length        Length        Length
SLR (Mil)    SLR(Mil)    Sand Seal    DBST/SBST  AC overlay
(k)          (km) (rn
1993    370           -
1994    473         411           -            -
1995    800         781          4528         138
1996    930         689           1720       155             25
1997    700         600           1629        130
1998    800         727          3104         111
1999    700           -            -
Expenditure figures for periodic maintenance have been estimated from partial provincial data.



12
ANTICIPATED MAINTENANCE FROM 2000 TO 2004
Year           Anticipated Allocation for        Anticipated Allocation for
Routine                          Periodic
Maintenance                       Maintenance
SLRs (million)                    SLRs (million)
2000                   401.4                               800.
2001                   401.4                               800
2002                   401.4                               900
2003                   401.4                              1000
2004                   401.4                              1000



SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CR. 2183-CE)
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
ROADS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ANNEX C



Annex C - Economic Evaluation - Provided by RDA
ECONOMIC EVALUATION FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THIRD ROADS
REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.1 Method
The economic evaluations were carried out for 17 road links under the Third Roads Project in line with the
methodology applied in the project appraisal for the feasibility study. This methodology uses the HDM
model (Highway Design Model) developed by the World Bank. HDM version EJ has been used. The
inputs for each road section include the length, width, structural number, latest measured roughness, the
opening year after rehabilitation was completed, opening-year traffic volumes by vehicle type, estimated
traffic growth rates for each of the three periods over the assumed 20 year life of the rehabilitated projects,
and actual economic costs of road rehabilitation and maintenance.
The model itself contains estimates of vehicle operating costs by type of vehicle and formulae for
ascertaining the relationships between road roughness and vehicle operating costs; the progression of road
roughness and its variation with time and traffic volumes for each road classification; the timing of
periodic maintenance depending on road strength, traffic volumes and the time since the construction or
last overlay; the reduction in roughness following rehabilitation or overlay; the calculation of the volume of
"generated" traffic, and calculation of the benefits to generated traffic based on half of the unit cost saving
to "normal" traffic. The development of the input data and formulas, and the values adopted, are described
in the other section.
The analysis system calculates the vehicle operating costs for each vehicle type, and in total for each year
of a 20-year period following the opening of a particular road after the completion of the rehabilitation of
the road. It then calculates the corresponding costs as they would be without the rehabilitation project, the
resulting vehicle operating costs savings, and the benefits to generated traffic. It also calculates the routine,
recurrent and periodic maintenance cost in each year both with and without the project. These annual
benefits and costs of the rehabilitation, are used to compute an Economic Rate of Return for each of
project segment.
1.2 Construction and Maintenance Costs
The actual financial costs for rehabilitation of each road and the associated bridges, and the tax and duty
content of the costs, are shown in the report submitted by the engineering consultant, Scott Wilson, ULK.
The economic costs of construction used in this economic evaluation are based on the actual cost incurred
(see Table C-1), with the financial costs converted into economic costs by removal of the estimated taxes
and duties. The timing of the project and distribution of the costs by year, are the cashflow of the project.



1.3 Result of the Evaluation
An example of the detailed output for one of the road links is shown in Table C-2. The results of the
evaluation in terms of Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) using these input data are shown in Table C-3.
The rates of return ranging from 21% to 125% indicating that the completed rehabilitation projects are
economically feasible.
1.4 Additional Data
Summary results of road roughness data are provided in Table C-4. These data are based on a 1996 road
condition survey and cover the entire country, with the exception of the North-East Province. Summary
figures on RDA maintenance expenditures are given in Table C-5.



World Bank Third Roads Project
Actual Financial Cost by Road Link
Project                                                                                                                  Incidental Cons.
ID                 Name of Road Link              Day Works  General       Earthworks   Drainage        Road Works      and Road Furniture    Total
WB3/2 (a)  1. Thoppu-Dankotuwa-Giriulla Road            472,779.80  25,995,921.30  22,650,147.20    22,818,754.00   128,756,950.31  504,620.00    201,199,172.61
WB3/2 (b)  2. Katunayake-Veyangoda-Nittabuwa Road       325,098.22  17,848,131.10  13,604,515.26    12,256,624.34    94,267,492.05  22,910.00    138,324,770.97
WB3/2 (c)  3. Seeduwa - Udugampola Road                  81,146.00   4,454,976.70   4,246,370.43  7,906,368.84    17,838,213.82     1,250.00     34,528,325.79
WB3/2 (d)  4. Biyanwila - Ganemulla Road                105,525.00   5,793,400.82   2,964,331.26    14,061,435.43    21,976,942.81  3,390.00    44,905,025.32
WB3/2      5. Negombo Town Road                          83,960.00   4,610,952.90   1,740,846.87  8,574,363.68    20,722,180.29        0.00     35,732,303.74
WB3/2 (e)    5.1 St. Joseph Street                       37,568.54   2,063,206.04    778,955.21  3,836,664.43    9,272,297.62          0.00      15,988,691.84
WB3/2 (f)   5.2 Old Chilaw Road                          17,930.44    984,711.98    371,774.08   1,831,135.29    4,425,414.77          0.00      7,630,966.56
WB3/2 (g)    5.3 Main Street                             28,461.02   1,563,034.88    590,117.58  2,906,563.96    7,024,467.89          0.00      12,112,645.34
WB314      6. Matara-Hambantota & TangaUle - Beliatta Rd           48,202,185.14  47,894,779.32   207,366,904.82   201,814,778.85    17,381,191.65    522,659,839.78
WB3/4(a)    6.1 Matara- Hamabantota                                43,951,075.98  43,670,781.29   189,078,535.80   184,016,070.07    15,848,287.22    476.564,750.36
WB3/4(a)    6.2 Tangalle BelliattaRoad                              4,251,109.16   4,223,998.03    18,288,369.02    17,798,708.78  1,532,904.43  46,095,089.42
WB3/5A(a)  7. Peliyagoda - Kadawatha Road               607,190.80  11,122,129.76   6,808,184.35    13,991,377.50   116,770,622.90  3,413,653.50    152,713,158.81
WB3/5A(b)  8. Hendala - Hunupitiya Road                  158,120.70   2,896,355.00   2,113,633.95  9,879,433.00    24,243,643.22  525,477.50     39,816,663.37
WB3/SA(c)  9. Wattala - Mahara Road                     219,201.30   4,015,186.50   3,443,690.30    15,056,282.00    31,722,909.90  738,560.00  55,195,830.00
WB3/5A(d)  10. Kiridiwita - Ganemulla Road               59,539.14   1,087,315.00   1,093,674.65  1,583,274.50    11,050,324.45    71,710.00     14,945,837.74
WB3/5B(a)  11. Kaduwela - Hanwella Road                 640,571.50   8,952,748.91   3,557,529.16    28,555,980.20    84,671,507.76  8,042,997.50    134,421,335.03
WB3/5B(b)  12. Dehiwela - Maharagama Road               273,148.73   3,817,307.26    830,026.45    16,748,056.97    38,080,159.00  5,043,482.50  64,792,180.91
WB3/5B(c)  13. Katubedda - Piliyandala Road             148,949.00   2,081,595.78   1,560,239.42    10,256,213.40    18,514,892.23  2,777,957.18  35,339,847.01    m
WB3/5B(d)  14. Nawinna - Mirihana Road                   191,564.00   2,677,774.86   1,033,957.73    13,986,588.4S    24,174,985.10  3,372,262.70  45,437,132.84   rn
0
Total                                                                                                            1,520,011,423.92



ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                        SUB-PROJECT N 1-4 RC
Proposed Surface: AC(RNV                                    ROAD Katunayake - Veyangoda - Nittambuwa
Traffic growth rate, years 1-7 (% per yr.)          5.00%
Traffic growth rate, years 8-14 (% per yr.)         4.00%                                                Car      Small
Traffic growth rate, years 15-20 (% per yr.)        3.00%                                               4WD     & Med.      Large     Light    Heavy
Opening year                                         1997                                              Pickup     Bus        Bus      Truck     Truck     Total
Roughness in     1997 , mm/km, w'out project        6194
Roughness in     1997 ,mm/km, with project           2800  Est.      1997 Traffic, VPD                  770       770        428       860       252      3080
Length (km.)                                         24.3
Width (km.)                                           6.7   VOC,    1997 Woutproject(Rs/1000km)         8867     13587     11901      7400     11212
Economic rehab. cost (Rs. mill.)        Year 1      11.07
Year 2      11.07   VOC,    1997 With project (Rs/1000 km)     8041     11063      12258      7075     12218
Year 3      22.13
Year 4      66.40
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Proiect                      Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
(Rs. million)                                               (Rs. million)                                  Benefit            Rehab. &
Car     Small                                               Car     Small                                                   from      Maint.    Maint.
4WD    & Med.   Large    Light    Heavy                     4WD    & Med.   Large    Light    Heavy                VOC    Generated   Cost       Cost       Net
Year Pickup    Bus      Bus      Truck    Truck    Total          Pickup    Bus      Bus     Truck    Truck     Total    Saving    Traffic   "WoutV    With"     Benefit
1                                                                                                                                                      11.07    -11.07
2                                                                                                                                                      11.07    -1 1.07
3                                                                                                                                                      22.13    -11.91
4                                                                                                                                            10.22     66.40    -61.25
5   65.08   104.31    53.36    65.76    31.02   319.53           58.12    80.72    48.75    56.87    28.49    272.94    46.59       1.36      5.15      3.16     49.93
6   70.39   116.75    61.90    75.43    36.64   361.11           61.02    84.76    51.19    59.71    29.92    286.59    74.52       3.08      5.15      3.16     79.58
7   78.22   137.75    77.32    92.60    47.03   432.92           64.58    90.53    53.63    62.91    31.21    302.86    130.06     7.81       5.15      3.97    139.06
8   82.13   144.64    81.18    97.23    49.38   454.57           68.33    96.67    56.18    66.29    32.56    320.04    134.53     7.96       5.15      8.15    139.50
9   86.24   151.87    85.24   102.09    51.85   477.30           72.30   103.20    58,86    69.85    33.97    338.18    139.12     8.11      14.86     14.86    147.23
10   90.55   159.47    89.50   107.19    54.44   501.16           74.17   103.02    62.22    72.58    36.36    348.35    152.81     9.32      5.15       3.16    164.11
11   95.08   167.44    93.98   112.55    57.17   526.22           78.49   110.04    65.18    76.47    37.94    368.13    158.09     9.50      5.15       3.97    168.77
12   98.88   174.14    97.74   117.06    59.45   547.27           82.27   116.38    67.64    79.81    39.20    385.30    161.97     9.59      5.15       3.16    173.54
13  102.84   181.10   101.65   121.74    61.83   569.16           86.22   123.06    70.18    83.29    40.51    403.26    165.90     9.67      5.15      19.85    160.87
14  106.95   188.35   105.71   126.61    64.30   591.93           87.61   121.68    73.49    85.72    42.95    411.44    180.48    11.01      5.15       3.16    193.47
15  111.23   195.88   109.94   131.67    66.88   615.60           91.82   128.73    76.25    89.46    44.38    430.66    184.95    11.11     14.86       3.97    206.95
16  115.68   203.72   114.34   136.94    69.55   640.23           96.24   136.15    79.13    93,37    45.86    450.75    189.48    11.22      5.15       3.16    202.68
17  120.31   211.87   118.91   142.42    72.33   665.84          100.86   143.96    82.11    97.44    47.39    471.76    194.08    11.31      5.15      14.86    195.67
18  125.12   220.34   123.67   148.11    75.23   692.47          102.49   142.35    85.97   100.28    50.25    481.33    211.14    12.88      5.15      8.15    221.02
19  128.87   226.95   127.38   152.56    77.48   713.24          106.39   149.15    88.35   103.65    51.42    498.96    214.28    12.88      5.15      3.97    228.33
20  132.74   233.76   131.20   157.13    79.81   734.64          110.43   156.23    90.79   107.14    52.63    517.22    217.42    12.87      5.15       3.16    232.27
21  136.72   24077   135.14   161.85    82.20   756.68           114.62   163.60    93.31   110.74    53.85    536.13    220.55    12.86      14.86     14.86    233.41
22  140.82   248.00   139.19   166.70    84.67   779.38          115.35   160.22    96.76   112.87    56.55    541.74    237.64    14.49      5.15      3.16    254.11
23  145.05   255.44   143.37   171.70    87.21   802.76          119.74   167.87    99.44   116.66    57.88    561.59    241.17    14.49       5.15      8.95    251.86
3254.77    191.50    137.20    241.54   3347.09        >
r
Disc. @10%P.a.:: PV,Total Benefits (Rs.rmill.) =   1294.86    SIC Ratio =    11.49          NPV (Rs.nffill.) =  1165.18m
Disc. @ 12% pa.:: PV, Total Benefits (Rs. mill.)   1105.42    B/C Ratio      10.89          NPV (Rs. mill.) =    990.87
All values discounted to beginning of Year 1, defined as first year in which a project expenditure is made.
All costs are at 1998 constant prices



ERR SUMMARY BY ROAD LINK
SAP      Contract                             SAR data                 Revised Analysis    Opening Year AADT compared to  Length   Cost ot    Cost
SAR       RDA                                     ID           pkg   am se data                            Future estgnate   RDA, May 1999     SARBas         SAR Estimae     km)   Completion   per km
Proj No.   Proj No.      Road Lnk                   #   km       #   orginal    complete  AADT   rough     AADT    ERR       AADT   ERR        abs      %      abs      %             (Rs 00Ws)  (R&0s)
% comp       (Dec 89) (mmhkm)  (end open yr)                        chg    chg    chg    chg
31MAR99        T3.1   T3.1       T4.1
GROUP 1 (designed before start of projecQ
1.1 A. C. OVERLAYS (AC)
1-1 AC              Moratuwa - Kalutara             1   28.0   3/1                         7,303   4,000     9,241  48.8%      not induded
1-2 AC    I-l AC    Kalutara - Ambalangoda (km 46-85)   2   40.0   3/1   92.0 100/  92.0    2,678   3,900   3,197  20.5%      not induded                                      92.00
1-3 AC    1-2 AC    Ambalangoda - Galle (km 86-119)  3   33.0   3/1                        3,644   3,700     4,471  23.5%      not induded
1.2 REGULATING COURSE (AC)
1-4 RC    1-3 RCAC   Katunayake - Veyangoda - Nittambuw  4   26.0   3/2                    2,299   5,200     2,908  34.4%      3,080  61.0%       781  34.00/6    172   5.9%   24.34    138,324.8   5,683.0
1-5 RC    1-4 RCAC   Toppu - Dankotuwa- Girulla     5   32.0   3/2   76.1  99%  75.3    1,966   5,000        2,487  36.5%      2,635  38.3%       669  34.0%/n    148   6.0%    31.92   201,199.2   6,303.2
1-6 RC    1-5 RCAC   Biyanwila - Ganemulla          6    8.6   312                         1,609   5,500     2,036  39.2%      6,964  40.1%     5,355 332.8%   4,928 242.0%    4.58    44,905.0   9,804.6
1-7 RC    1-6 RCAC   Seeduwa- Udugampola            7   12.0   3/2                         1,064   5,250      1,346  28.8%     1,426  44.8%       362  34.0h      80   5.9%     8.76    34,528.3   3,941.6
1-8 RC              Matara - Hakmana                8   24.0   3/3                         2,374   5,400     3,007  38.2%       requested
GROUP 2 (designed after start of project)
2.1 A C. OVERLAYS (AC)
11-1 AC            Galle - Matara                   9   44.0   3/3   88.0  14%  12.3    1,906   4,500        2,415  21.2%      requested
11-2 AC    11-1 AC    Kaduwela - Hanwella          10   12.5   3/Ss                        2,782   5,830     3,662  33.7%     4,295  20.9%      1,513  54.4%     633  17.3%h   14.20   134,421.3   9,466.3
11-3 AC    11-2 AC    Peliyagoda- Kadawatha         11   8.0   3/5A                       22,861   4,000    30,083  65.9%    32,168  65.9%      9,307  40.7%    2,085   6.9%    8.04    152,713.2  18,994.2
11-4 AC    11-3 AC    Dehiwela - Maharagama (B)    12   7.6   3/s5                         3,662   5,800     4,819  36.0%     5,154  55.7%      1,492  40.7%     335   7.0%     7.53    64,792.2   8,604.5
Il-S AC    11-4 AC    St. Joseph Street (B)        13   2.8   312                          7,138   6,300     9,031  98.1%     9,566 124.5%      2,428  34.0%     535   5.9%     2.64     15,988.7   6,056.3
11-6 AC    11-5 AC    Navinna- Midhana Road         14    3.4   3/SB                       2,896   6,300     3,811  30.9%     4,074  29.0%      1,178  40.7%/    263   6.9%    3.39    45,437.1  13,403.3
11-7 AC    11-6 AC    Hunupitiya-Wattala-Hendala (B)  15    4.0   3/SA                     3,570   5,350     4,698  33.5%     5,023  37.7%      1,453  40.7%     325   6.9%    3.60    39,816.7  11,060.2
11-8 AC            (Old) Chillaw Road, Neg,ombo     16    1.3   3/2                        5,740   5,350     7,263  86.4%     7,692 105.1%      1,952  34.00h    429   5.90%   1.26       7,631.0   6,056.3
11-9 AC    11-7 AC    Katubedda- Piliyandala Road (B)  17    4.7   3/SB   26.0  99%  25.7    2,301   6,300   3,028  30.7h    3,238  29.8%       937  40.7%      210   6.9%    4.35    35,339.8   8,124.1
2.2 REGULATING COURSE (RC)
11-10 RC   11-8 RCAC  Matara - Dickwella (km 163-183)  18  21.0   3/4                      1,595   5,200      2,020  30.2% )
11-11 RC   11-9 RCAC  Dickwella- Hambantota (km 183-241) 19  59.0   3/4   83.1 100%  83.1    1,347   5,200    1,706  26.4% )  2,356  63.7%      1,009  74.9%      650  38.1%    84.02   476,564.8   5,672.0
11-12 RC   11-10 RCAC Matara - Akuressa             20   21.0   3/3                        1,072   5,200      1,358  23.0%      requested
11-13 RC  11-11 RCAC Wattala - Mahara Road (B)      21    7.2   3/SA                        1,594   5,970     2,097  25.4%     2,242  51.7%       648  40.7%      145   6.9%     7.05    55,195.8   7,829.2
11-14 RC  11-12RCAC Negombo-Giriulla (Main Street)    22    1.6   3/2                      2,082   5,200      2,634  41.7%     2,791  53.5%       709  34.1%      157   6.0%     2.00    12,112.6   6,056.3
no 15
11-16 PC  11-13 RCAC Beliatta-Tangalla              23    6.5   3/4                          814   5,200      1,031  21.9%     1,203  37.0%       389  47.8%      172  16.7%    7.41    46,095.1   6,220.7
11-17 RC   11-14 RCAC Kirindiwita - Ganemulla       24    3.0   3/SA   21.3 100%  21.3    1,120   5,200       1,474  22.4%     1,576  49.9%       456  40.7%      102   6.9%     2.63     14,945.8   5,682.8 
11-18 RC   dropped  Isurupaya - Pannipitiya         25    6.0   3/5                         1,747   5,700     2,299  37.3%       dropped                                                                         W
TOTAL                                          417.2         386.5       309.8   87,164            112,122           95,483           30,638                          309.72  1,520,011.4
TOTAL, IDA completed links only                                                  64,845            84,114            95,483    52%    30,638  47.2%   11,369  13.5%  217.72  1,520,011.4   6,981.5      
NOTES & SOURCES:
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report, 03 October, 1990.
Economic Analysis - Road Development Authorty, May 1999.



Average Roughness of National Road Network
Based on 1996 Road Survey
Province         Distrct                 Length (lkm)                    Roughness
Class A                       Class B                           Total
"A"      'B"      total     0-5      5-7       >7          0-5      5-7       >7          0-5       5-7       >7
Western          Colombo               1      135.02    248.78    383.80      90.32     17.83    27.46        8.48     89.33    151.76      98.80    107.16    179.22
Gampaha               2     129.69    578.42    708.11       54.35    24.05     51.87       17.18    257.63    307.10      71.53    281.68    358.97
Kalutara              3      80.49    297.13    377.62      40.83      0.00     40.34        9.65    43.44    244.04       50.48     43.44    284.38
provincial sub-total        345.20  1,124.33  1,469.53      185.50    41.88    119.67       35.31    390.40    702.90     220.81    432.28    822.57
provincial distnbution        23%       77%      100%        53%       12%       34%         3%       35%       62%         15%       29%       56%
Central          Kandy                 4      183.67    524.66    708.33      17.70    56.01    109.83        2.41    25.53    497.74       20.11     81.54    607.57
Matate                5     105.18    263.47    368.65      98.15      0.00      7.03        0.00     0.38    283.47       98.15      0.36    270.50
NuwaraEliya           6     119.72    480.32    600.04        0.00     0.00    119.72        2.41    80.19    401.91        2.41     80.19    521.63
provincial sub-total        408.57  1,268.45  1,677.02      115.85    56.01    236.58        4.82    106.10  1,163.12     120.67    162.11   1,399.70
provincial distibution        24%       76%      100%        28%       14%       58%         0%        8%       91%          7%       10%       83%
Southern         Galle                 7      102.92    365.24    468.16      76.83     6.36     19.70        0.00      0.00    366.17      76.83      6.36    385.87
Matara                8     134.52    223.57    358.09        0.00    46.02     92.37        0.00    31.84    192.73        0.00     77.86    285.10
Hambantota            9     115.47    271.17    386.64       0.00      0.43    115.04        0.00    40.23    230.94        0.00     40.66    345.98
provincial sub-total        352.91    859.98  1,212.89       76.83    52.81    227.11        0.00    72.07    789.84       76.83    124.88  1,018.95
provincial distrbution        29%       71%      100%        22%       15%       64%         0%        8%       92%          6%       10%       83%
North/East (N)   Jaffna               10
North/East (E)   Batticaloa           13
NWP              Kununegala           16      197.14    590.49    787.63      92.53     2.41    135.19        0.00    75.19    513.83       92.53     77.60    649.02
Puttalum             17     156.08    324.20    480.28       0.00     86.97     69.11       55.69    39.70    228.71       55.69    126.67    297.82
provincial sub-total        353.22    914.69  1,267.91       92.53    89.38    204.30       55.69    114.89    742.54     148.22    204.27    946.84
provincial distribution       28%       72%      100%        24%       23%       53%         6%       13%       81%         11%       16%       73%
NCP              Anuradhapura         18      351.82    381.97    733.79      73.26    166.46    109.63       0.00      0.00    381.97      73.26    166.46    491.60
Polonnaruwa          19     142.52    179.91    322.43      59.41               83.11      47.33     33.74     97.94      106.74     33.74    181.05
provincial sub-total        494.34    561.88  1,056.22      132.67    166.46    192.74      47.33    33.74    479.91      180.00    200.20    672.65
provincial distribution       47%       53%      100%        27%       34%       39%         8%        6%       86%         17%       19%       64%
Uva              Bandarawela          20      264.23    418.56    682.79      23.80    36.34    205.70        0.00    203.53    216.76      23.80    239.87    422.46
Monaragala           21     204.29    138.23    342,52       0.00      4.15    194.67        0.00     0.00    138.23        0.00      4.15    332.90
provincial sub-total        468.52    556.79  1,025.31       23.80    40.49    400.37        0.00    203.53    354.99      23.80    244.02    755.36
provincial distrbution        46%       54%      100%         5%        9%       86%         0%       36%       64%          2%       24%       74%
Sabaragamuwa    Ratnapura             22      271.69    391.65    663.34      38.05    92.86    140.68        0.00    41.19    354.62       38.05    134.05    495.30
Kegalla              23     143.88    248.77    392.65      118.02    26.14     25.23        0.00    50.46    197.46      118.02     76.60    222.69
provincial sub-total        415.57    640.42  1,055.99      156.07    119.00    165.91       0.00    91.65    552.08      156.07    210.65    717.99
provincial distrbution        39%       61%      100%        35%       27%       38%         0%       14%       86%         14%       19%       66%
National Total                              2,838.33  5,926.54  8,764.87     783.25    566.03  1,546,68     143.15  1,012.38  4,785.38     926.40  1,578.41  6,332.06
Nabonal Distribution                           32%       68%      100%         27%      20%       63%          2%      17%       81%         10%       18%       72%          m
Notes & Sources                                                                                                                                                                 9
Received from Sri Lanka Road Development Authorty (RDA), 20 May 1999.



Summary of RDA Maintenance Expenditures
Type              1994                  1995                   1996                  1997                  1998                   Total (1994-98)        Average (1994-98)
Budget Actual Length  Budget Actual Length  Budget Actual Length  Budget Actual Length  Budget Actual Length   Budget Actual  Length   Budget Actual Length
(Rs mn) (Rs mn)  (km)   (Rs mn) (Rs mn)  (km)   (Rs mn) (Rs mn)  (km)   (Rs mn) (Rs mn)  (km)   (Rs mn) (Rs mn)  (km)    (Rs mn) (Rs mn)  (km)    (Rs mn) (Rs mn)  (km)
Routine maintenance       171   154  8,585       180   153  8,625      258   221  8,719      263   235  8,755      260   233  8,833      1,132     996  43,517      226    199  8,703
Periodic maintenance      338   294              795   776             740   548             865   741             998   907             3,736   3,266              747   653
sand sealing                 880                  3,011                 2,046                  1,780                 2,945                    10,662                  2,132
DBST/SBST                     20                     32                    58                   123                    72                       305                     61
ratio of actual to budget     87%                   98%                   74%                   86%                    91%                     87%                     87%
Periodic maintenance   473                    800                   930                   700                    800
(from Borrower's Report)
Estimated actual              411                    781                   689                   600                   727
Flood damage              334   277   222        165   119   152       108   126   186       173   158   131        151   124   137        931     804     828      186   161    166
Rehabilitation            486   356   394        534   438   387       766   506   418       387   374   401       607   476   681       2,780   2,150   2,281      556   430    456        >
m
NOTES & SOURCES
Source: Road Development Authority, Maintenance Division, May 1999, except box showing 'Borrowers Report".
Figures compiled by summing up Provincial level data, except that Southern Province is EXCLUDED from these data.                                                                         C
01



SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
(CR. 2183-CE)
MAP
ANNEX D



IBRD 30311
PM
El
M  11,12
I ollNO
M Hl
HIM-11 lillIffill!
V)
<
UR
N,
-2
-M                                                            E
N-M
J.-V
"g
E 0
g..                                                                                                                       HI
IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          'UNE 199V



