Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F  /   f   8 3                       Repon No. 8816-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
OCTOBER 3, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
Thi docment as a restdcted dbuibudon and may be used by repiens ady in the pedromnau  nf
their oflicda duies. Its contents may not oerwise be disdosed wihoat Wodd Bank authrdzaion.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
(As of April 1990)
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee (SL Rs)
SL Rs 40.0    - US$1.00
SL Rs 1,000   - US$25.00
WEIGHTS AnD MEASURES
1 meter (m)          -        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     -        0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)       -        2.48 acres (ac)
1 ton                -        2,208 pounds
1 ton-km             -        0.62 ton-mile
1 passenger-km       -        0.62 passenger-mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
CM&C    -  Construction Management and Contracts
EDCF    -  Economic Development Cooperation Fund
(Republic of Korea)
GOSL    -  Government of Sri Lanka
INC-CPT -   Inter-Ministerial Committee for Coordination
and Planning of Transport
mOp     -  Ministry of Finance
MPPI    -  Ministry of Planning and Policy Implementation
MTH     -  Ministry of Transport and Highways
OECF    -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Pund
ODA     -  Overseas Development Administration
PMMU    -  Project Management and Monitoring Unit
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
RCDC    -  Road Construction and Development Co. Ltd.
RDA     -  Road Development Authority
RTBs    -  Regional Transport Boards
SLCTB   -  Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
TSPS    -  Transport Sector Planning Study (January 1988)
FISCAL AR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANK
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL R2PORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHARY        ..........................................   i
I.  TOE TRANSPORT SECTOR       ..........................................   1
A.  Introduction    1.............................................. 
B.  Transport Institutions, Planning and Coordination .... .....  1
C.  Sector Objectives ............     .............................   2
D.  The Transport System ..........     ............................   2
E.  IDA's Sector Role and Assistance Strategy ..................  4
II.  THE ROAD SUBSECTOR ............................................   5
A. The Network .     ..............................................   5
B. Traffic ...................................................   6
C. Administration and Organization .......       ....................   7
D.  Planning, Design and Construction ......      ...................  9
'1. Road Expenditures and Financing .11
-II.  THE PROJECT ........................................               12
A.  Background . ........................................  12
B.  Project Objectives ........ ......... ......................  13
C.  Project Description ...........        ..................  13
D. Cost Estimates .............................  17
E.  Project Financing .........         ....................  17
F.  Implementation .............................  18
G.  Procurement and Contracting .............................   19
H.  Disbursements .............................  20
I.  Accounts and Audits .......................................  21
J.  Monitoring and Reporting ..............................    21
IV.  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..............................  22
A.  Economic Evaluation ............       ..................  22
B.  Risks  ..............................  24
C.  Environmental Impact ..............       ................  25
D.  Special Considerations ...............................  25
V.  A MREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONNENDATION .........   ................  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in
April  1990.    Mission members  included Mr.  B.  Assimakopoulos  (Principal
Engineer/Planner and Task Manager), Mies. I. Bradfield (Senior Transport
Economist), J. Williams-Palenzuela (Operations Assistant) from the International
Development Association, and Mr. R. Leonard (Highway Engineer), Consultant. The
report has been endorsed by Messrs. S. Asanuma (Director, Country Department I,
Asia Region), and I. T. Christie (Chief, Infrastructure Operations Division).
The peer review team comprised Messrs. W. Paterson and S. Sigfusson, who focussed
their review on highway engineering; R. Zagha/ti. Shishido who focussed their
review on economic aspects; and C. Rees, who reviewed ecological and
environmental aspects. The report has been cleared by Messrs. H. Darmawi (Senior
Counsel) and R. Wiratunga (Senior Disbursement Officer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annex  1   Rcad Development Authority:
Organization and ResponsibilitSes ......     .................. 27
Annex  2   Detailed Description of Works (Roads and Bridges) ........... 33
Annex  3   Study on Road User Charges, Terms of Reference ....    ......... 39
Annex  4   Domestic Contracting Industry Study in the Road Subseator,
Terms of Reference ........................................ 44
Annex  5   Project Management and Monitoring Unit Advisor,
Terms of Reference .........    .............................. 47
Annex  6   Supervising Consultant, Terms of Reference .....     ............ 51
Annex  7    Schedule of Estimated Disburse3ments ......................... 58
Annex  8   Project Reporting Requirements ............................. 59
Annex  9   Economic Evaluation--Assumptions and Methodology ............ 60
Annex 10   Selected Documents and Date Available in the Project File... 90
TABLES
Table 1.1  Passenger and Freight Traffic .                               92
Table 1.2  Vehicle Registrations by Class of Vehicle .                   93
Table 2.1  Road Network by Province/Juristiction
and Road Surface Type .                                    94
Table 2.2  Public Investment in Transport (1981-1993) .                  95
Table 2.3  Summary of Provisions/Expenditures on Roads .                 96
Table 2.4  Road Development Authority - Proposed
Five-Year Expenditures .                                   97
Table 3.1 Road Rehabilitation Program .                                  98
Table 3.2 Bridge Rehabilitation Program .                                99
Table 3.3 Cost of Vehicles and Equipment .                              100
Table 3.4 Estimated Cost for Roads .                                    101
Table 3.5 Estimated Cost for Bridges .                                  102
Table 3.6  Estimated Project Costs (Roads and Bridges) .                103
Table 4.1 Traffic Forecasts ..                                          104
Table 4.2   Estimated Construction Costs and Schedule .     .           1
Table 4.3 Results of Economic Evaluation ..                             107
Table 4.4  Vehicle Operating Costs: Toppu-Dankotuwa-Giriulla Roads .     108
Table 4.5  Vehicle Operating Costs: Kalutara-Ambalangoda Roads .        109
Table 4.6  Vehicle Operating Costs: St. Joseph Street .                 110
Table 4.7 Switch Value Analysis ..                                      111
Chart 1    Organization of Road Development Authority .                 112
Chart 2 Implementation Schedule .                                       113
IBRD No. 22434



.L_
TnIRD RQADS PROJECT
Credit and Projest Sumiarv
lormuryff:              Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Ben ficlaxi:            Road Development Authority
hAM=:                    SDR 30.6 million (US$42.5 million)
TerAs:                  Standard, with 40 yeats maturity
On-L.endLn  Terms:      N/A
Prolect Descriution:    The project's objectives are to: (a) reduce the road transport
cost and delays of passengers and goods by restoring major
trunk roads to better operational condition; (b) help to
restore priority road infrastructure damaged by flooding and
landslides in H4ay/June 1989; (c) enhance the institutional
capabilities to increase the quality and extent of road
maintenance and rehabilitation; and (d) upgrade RDA's capacity
to supervise and execute rehabilitation works and to identify
actions needed to develop the local road contracting industry.
The project to be implemented over an eight-year period would
focus on: (a) rehabilitation of about 420 km of primary and
secondary trunk routes (Class A and B roads); (b) repair,
rehabilitation and replacement cf 24 bridges; (c) repair and
rehabilitation of road sections and associated structures
damaged as a consequence of floods and landslides;
(d) procurement of vehicles, equipment and supplies to
strengthen contract administration and management; and
(e) consultant services, technical assistance and on-the-job
training to improve contract monitoring and cost control
capabilities.
Benefits and Risks:     Transport savings made pos3ible by the project would be passed
on to the users in the form of lower operating costs and
increasod product availability.  The Sri Lankan population is
highly mobile and the benefits of the project are expected to
be widely distributed among all segments of the population,
including poverty groups. The flood rehabilitation component
is expected to directly assist rural low income families by
restoring access for agricultural inputs/outputs. The project
supports privatization through assistance to the local
contracting industry and it is expected to generate labor-
intensive employment opportunities for all dwellers in the
vicinity of project works. A predominant risk is the possible
breakdowin of the fragile political stability in the country
which could affect implementation and costs. Flexibility has
been incorporated into the implementation schedule to allow
for the initial contracts to be in areas unaffected by
political unrest. Works will be initially awarded at annual
intervals in order to monitor the situation and enable the
timing of the later contracts to be adjusted to prevailing
conditions.   Other risks are the possible weakening of
Government's commitment to the project and over-extension of
RDA's implementation capacity.



- ii-
Estimated Costa;
Local       Foreign      Total
-----US$ million---------
Civil Works (Roads and Bridges)       20.9        27.9         48.8
Road Flood Rehabilitation              1.7         0.6          2.3
Equipment                              0.1         0.1          0.2
Technical Assistance
Project Support                    2.3          2.4          4.7
Policy Development                 0.2          0.6          0.8
Project Preparation Facility           0.0         0.5          0.5
Total Base Costs                      Z=          32.1         5.3A
Physical Contingencies                 2.1         2.6          4.7
Price Contingencies                    2.9 _..                  8.5
::ubtotal Contingencies        5.0           8.2.13.2
Total Project Costs J/         30.2         40.3         70.5
1/    The total cost, net of taxes and duties (US$8.3 million),
is US$62.2 million. Figures may not total because of rounding.
.:^nancim Plan:
Local       Fgreign      Total
--US$ million--------
Government                     13.5          0.0         13.5
EDCF (Republic of Korea)        4.3         10.2         14.5
IDA                            ILA          NU          42.
Total                    30.2         40.3        70.5
Estimaped Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year          PY91  FY92  FY93  F       im FY9S     1122  112Ft
------------------US$ million-----------------
Annual                    2.4   2.5   4.9   7.4   9.0   8.2   6.0   2.1
Cumulative                2.4   4.9   9.8  17.2  26.2  34.4  40.4  42.5
Econmoic Rate of Return:       33.1%
NO: IBERD No. 22434



SkI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1         The island of Sri Lanka (66,000 kW2) has a topography which is flat
in the coastal areas and mountainous toward the center of the island.   The
maximum geographical distances of the island are about 400 km from north to south
and 240 km from east to west. Rivers flow in a radial pattern from the mountains
and have no navigational significance. The road network traverses a land contour
rising from mean sea level to over 2,000 meters and through areas with iainfall
as high as 3,500 mm per year and average temperatures ranging from 110C in the
mountainous areas toward the center of the island to 32°C in the coastal areas.
The 1989 population was estimated at about 16.6 million, a high percentage of
which lives within the southwest quadrant and in the Jaffna peninsula at the
northern tip of the island. Between 1980 and 1989, the population in Sri Lanka
grew at the moderate rate of 1.2% annually. The size and topography of the
country and the location of population centers have influenced the transport
infrastructure by generating large and frequent short distance transport of
passengers and goods that exercise continuous pressure on road transport.
1.2         Almost every part of the country is accessible by road and rail
networks. In the face of severe financial constraints, however, public transport
infrastructure has deteriorated and road and rail costs are up to 50% or more
higher than they would be under reasonable conditions of maintenance. The major
tasks facing the transport sector are the rehabilitation and upgrading of road
and rail infrastructure, better maintenance and improvement in railway and bus
operations to meet increased transport demand, and reduction of the high cost of
providing transport services.
1.3         Total  transport expenditures  in the  rolling  five-year Public
Investment Program (PIP) for the 1989-93 period are SL Rs 25,911 million (US$648
million), 17.7% of total plan investments and 13.1% higher than the 1988-92 PIP
for transport. The major share is for the highway subsector, whose allocation
more than doubled from SL Rs 5.0 billion (1985-89) to SL Rs 10.1 billion (1989-
93), while the railway share nearly doubled from SL Rs 5.2 billion (1985-89) to
SL Rs 9.0 billion (1989-93).  In the PIP, highways account for 40  of total
transport expenditures while the share for the railway is 35%, and 25% for other
modes.
B. Transport Institutions. Planning and Coordination
1.4         Responsibility  for administration  of the  transport  sector  is
dispersed among a number of ministries and agencies. The Ministry of Transport
and Highways (NTH) is responsible for all matters concerning roads and railways
through the Road Development Authority (RDA) and the Sri Lanka Railways. RDA is
responsible for the planning, design, construction and maintenance of the
national road network while the Provincial Councils and local governments are
entrusted with the responsibility of the provincial and local road networks
respectively. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for shipping and
port operations, while air transport is under the umbrella of the Ministry of
Defense. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Planning and Policy
Implementation (NPPI) are responsible for planning and funding all Government of



-2-
Sri Lanka (GOSL) investments, as well as the task of coordinating transport
investments and policy.
1.5         The transport sector is gro  tg larger and more complex, and there
is a need to coordinate the competing d, .knds xor its development.  Transport
funding has not been spread evenly, with costly duplication in some areas,
underfunding in others and investments not always oriented to least-cost
solutions.  Planning has not in practice been carried out with emphasis on
comparison of alternatives or engineering and economic flexibility, and there has
been limited coordination. There has also been a tendency to spread limited
funds thinly over various modes and various works in a particular transport mode.
1.6         Following the completion of a Transport Sector Planning Study (TSPS)
in 1988 with IDA assistance, Government was determined to improve transport
planning and coordination, including intermodal linkages. With IDA's support,
the Interministerial Committee for Coordination and Planning of Transport (TIC-
CPT) was established in NTH, which is now carrying out a reorientation cf ..e
transport system with the aim of making it more efficient (para 1.16).
C. Sector Obiectives
1.7         The Government's overall objectives for the  sector which are
supported by IDA are to:  (a) develop an integrated approach to development of
the transport system; (b) improve operations and management of major transport
modes; (c) accelerate completion of ongoing projects and programs; and (d)
implement only those programs with external financing which would help improve
the overall efficiency in national (trunk) networks.  These are reasonable
objectives--particularly in view of the difficult economic conditions and the
scarcity of budgetary resources for recurrent and capital costS over the next few
years.
D. The Transgort Svstem
1.8         The main mode of transport within Sri Lanka is the highway system,
with railways a distant second.  Other modes of transport--air and coastal
shipping- -play only a minor role, and a short pipeline is used to transport crude
oil from the oil berth at Colombo Port to the nearby petroleum refinery. Several
Government agencies and cooperative societies also operate a significant number
of trucks on their own account. Principal passenger and freight statistics are
shown in Table 1.1 and the main modes are discussed below.
(a)   Road Transport
1.9         The road system in Sri Lanka comprises a well-traced network of roads
totalling about 97,400 km (approximately 30,750 km paved or bitumen surfaced and
66,750 km graveled or unpaved). Road transport is the most importtnt mode in Sri
Lanka's economy accounting for about 82% of total freight and carrying 85% of
total passengers in 1989. The road freight transport industry is unregulated (no
business licensing, no tariff regulations), and hence pricing is subject to
market forces and local circumstances. Trucking is mainly privately owned with
small operators predominating; the remainder is owned by Government departments,
public corporations, cooperative societies and agricultural estates operating for



-3-
"own account." Liberal import policies enacted by GOSL in 1977 helped transform
the road freight transport fleet which was old and run-down due to restrictions
on import of vehicles, spare parts and materials. Four-wheel vehicles are now
imported freely and new vehicle registrations have almost tripled since 1977.
Vehicle registrations in 1980-88 are shown in Table 1.2. The total number of
active commercial vehicles--buses and trucks--in 1988 is estimated at about
117,300 units which represents 20.0% of the tctal active vehicle fleet for all
classes of vehicles.
1.10        Until 1979, passenger transport was the monopoly of the Sri Lanka
Central Transport Board (SIOTB) and the Regional Transport Boards (RTBs).  Since
then, however, private passenger transport operations have been allowed and are
capturing an increasing share of the market.   Their operation is regulated
through vehicle inspection and tariff ceilings. In 1988, the services of public
and private buses (a fleet of about 37,000) spanned the entire country. The
publicly-owned buses have operated at a loss in each year between 1976 and 1988.
The reported losses have increased rapidly, primarily because of the effect of
competition from private sectot buses. A significant proportion of the loss is
attributable to the operation of uneconomic routes and level of service, and
concessionary fare reductions provided as social obligations.  In 1939, GOSL
embarked upon the implementation of a scheme to convert public bus transport
operations to private ownership and management.    IDA has supported this
initiative which is taking place during a period of increased passenger traffic
as a result of the improved civil stability in the country. A more detailed
discussion of the road transport sector is given in Chapter II.
(b)   RailxaXs
1.11        Sri Lanka Railways has a total route length comprising 1,500 km of
broad gauge track and the Kelani Valley Line, which is a 59 km section of narrow
gauge track. The railway is diesel powered but the availability of locomotives
has been poor due particularly to lack of spare parts. The rolling stock is
mostly very old and availabilit; is very low due mainly to low productivity of
workshops and poor and deficient materials supply and repairs. In 1988, the
railway system transported some 1.2 million passengers and 117,000 tons of
freight, compared to about 2.7 million passengers and 20,000 tons of freight in
1989. The railway has steadily lost modal superiority and its poor operating
performance has resulted in mounting financial losses which are an increasing
drain on treasury resources.   GOSL is fully aware of its iraibility to continue
financing operating losses of the railways. With IDA assistance, it is revising
its operating and marketing strategy, rationalizing its rolling stock,
reformulating its overall investm-eit plan and instituting an improved operations
and maintenance program.
(c)   Ports and Shipoing
1.12        The Sri Lanka Port Authority  (SLPA), established in 1979,  is
responsible for all port management and operations.  Since that time, SLPA has
been able to streamline port operations and efficiently handle increasing traffic
at Colombo. Container traffic through Colombo has increased from 7,500 Twenty-
foot Equivalent Units in 1978 to over 400,000 in 1988. The large Increase in
container traffic has been due to the introduction of a regular service to the
United Kingdom and transhipment in Colombo. Due to space limitations at the



-4-
port, container freight stations have been established in the vicinity of Colombo
to handle domestic and transhipment traffic.  As container and transhipment
traffic continue to increase, SLPA is exploring the possibility of revitalizing
the existing natural ports at Galle and Trincomalee for future expansion.
(d) Aix IIInfi2Z=
1.13        Nearly all passenger traffic to and from Sri Lanka is by air,
including significant tourist traffic. Since 1977, passenger traffic has grown
steadily to about 1.5 million passengers and 30,000 tons of freight per year.
Passenger and freight volumes are expected to increase to 5.0 million passengers
and 70,000 tons per year by 2000. The only international airport operating at
the present time is the Colombo Internationa. Airport at Katunayake, 32 km north
of Colombo. It is served by an access road from -he Colombo-Negombo Road and by
a rail spur from the Colombo-Puttalam line. The  -port is located close to the
center of industries producing light manufactutxng goods suitable for air
transport. The airport is well equipped to handle all types of aircraft, and
during 1989-90 a new passenger terminal with a 42,000 ton capacity cargo building
and a 5,'40 sq.m. floor area maintenance complex 1- ame operational.   The
national carrier, Air Lanka, was created in 1979 to re. I -e the unprofitable and
now defunct Air Ceylon, and offers international service in the region and to
Europe. Largely due to aggressive marketing and fare policies, Air Lanka has
sustained a 60% load factor, and operates a fleet of four Lockheed L-1011
Tristars and one Boeing 737 aircraft.   It flies to 22 destinations in 19
countries in Europe, the Middle East, the Indian sub-continent and the Far East.
E. IDA's Sector Role and Assistance Strategq
1.14        Developmeni: of an efficient transport sector in Sri Lanka has long
been an objective of Government policy, which IDA has encouraged. IDA supported
the establi.-ment of the IMC-CPT in 1984 and has provided assistance to its
Technical Secretariat to analyze major institutional and policy issues affecting
the sector. The first credit for a highway project was approved by the Board in
1968, but it was subsequently cancelled as the Government wanted to change the
project approach and scope. The next operation was in 1979, when IDA approved
the first Road Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE), which became the turning
point in IDA's dialogue with Government on highways (PCR No. 8000 of August
1989).   In March 1980, IDA approved Credit 994-CE for the Road Passenger
Transport Project (PCR No. 8011, August 1989). The proje!~t contributed to policy
reforms which helped remove many restrictions that had precluded private bus
operations in the past. It also demonstrated the complexities and inefficiencies
of the public sector agencies operating bus fleets. The lessons derived from
this project have been used as a basis for preparation of other transport
projects. The ongoing Second Roads Project (Loan 2517-CE, April 1985), builds
on the objectives of the earlier two projects.   To date, progress has been
satisfactory.   Although some procurement and contract administration problems
still persist, these problems are being resolved through close coordination with
RDA. The Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1883-CE,
approved in March 1988), is to finance some road reconstruction in selected areas
in the north and northeast which had been damaged during the country's civil
unrest. This project has disbursed slowly because civil disturbances have been
protracted; as the political situation stabilizes, we expect disbursements to



-5-
gradually improve. Under the Economic Restructuring Credit (Credit No.2128-(OE,
May 1990), Government-owned bus operations are in the process of being privatized
to make them commercially viable. Deregulation of bls fares has been agreed and
discussions have been held for the establishment of a transport regulatory
authority with powers to enforce safety standards to control operations of new
or additional services.
1.15        Although the.e have been mixed results in previous projects, in
retrospect, it is clear that they helped bring about fundamental changes and
enc.ouraged GOSL to experiment with new solutions to transport problems. They
also focussed the operations of RDA on maintenance and rehabilitation and away
fr-m new construction. The information gather4ng and technical capabilities of
RDA have improved and the results have been incorporated into the proposed
project and RDA's work plan for the next five years. Several local contractors
and consultants have entered the road sector as a result of experience gained on
previous projects and it is expected that some will consolidate their position
by competing for contracts in this project. A pavement management system being
established under a project funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADs) will also
assist in the long-term sustainability of the benefits accruing from these
projects (para 2.16).
1.16        The proposed project would complement the previous road projects by
emphasizing rehabilitation and maintenance of national roads (excluding roads
under the jurisdiction of provinces and districts). From 1981-1989 Government
has invested SL Rs 20.7 billion in the transport sector of which SL Rs 6.0
billion  (29%) were allocated to Highways  (Table 2.2).   The Government's
allocation for the transport sector from 1989-1993 is SL Rs 25.9 bill-on.
Preliminary analysis suggests this amount could be reduced to about SL Rs 20.0
billion as the public investment program currently includes allocation for buses
which are being privatized. Further, indications are that highway's share should
be  increased to 50% of the t0- l allocation compared to 40% under the
Government's plan. An IDA Transport Sector Review with emphasis on transport
investment planning, improved policy and better intermodal coordination is
currently under preparation with the assistance of IMC-CPT.   The Review is
expected to lead to a project which would complement this proposed project. Its
focus would be on railways, buses, and traffic management in metropolitan
Colombo, and on reforms neces-ary to improve the overall efficiency of the
respective subsectors.      Apart from IDA support for road infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation, ADB, Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) and the United Kingdom's Overseas Development Administration (ODA) have
supported other road rehabilitation and improvement projects. Investments are
being coordinated between IDA and other donors through regular donor coordination
meetings.
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.  The Netrk
2.1         Compared to other countries of South Asia, Sri Lanka has a relatively
extensive and well-developed road network, which evolved largely to serve the
needs of plantations by bringing their produce to the ports.  Presently Sri



-6-
Laika's overall road netvork totals some 97,400 km, including 30,750 km of paved
roads; the remaining roads are gravel or earth. The national trunk road network,
under the responsibility of RDA, is in place and consists of about 10,440 km of
paved roads, or 11% of the total. Responsibility for roads outside the domain
of RDA is vested in Provincial Counc~ils (16%) and local governments (53%). About
the 20% are the responsibility of specialized agencies such as the Sri Lanka
Plantation Corporation, Irrigation Department, Forest Department, etc. In the
most populous and prodt.._tive regions of Sri Lanka, paved roads account for 6% in
tna northeastern province, 6% in the western province (including Colombo), and
5% In the central province (Table 2.1). The public road network has a density
of about 1,200 km per 1,000 sq.km of land area and 4.7 km per 1,000 population,
one of the highest in ssia.
2.2         Mosc roads were built many years ago and have since had few
improvements; over time, roadside development has encroached into the original
right-of-way over long sections. A number of bridges are structurally unsound
as well as too narrow for -raffic, and there are lengths of highway throughout
the country where pavement failure is imminent. Maintenance of both pavement and
bridges has been insufficient for a number of years. These factors combine to
cause low average traffic speeds, high operating costs and dangerous traffic
conditions. The road network now requires sound maintenance and substantial
rehabilitation to prevent further serious deterioration.
2.3         A major road condition survey carried out in 1986 revealed that most
of the national trunk routes were structurally sound and the surface condition
of 49% of the pavements was rated as bumpy (3,500 to 5,000 mm/km) to very bumpy
(over 5,000 mm/km).  However, pavement width of most major roads was inadequate
with deteriorated edges and shoulders. The survey also indicated that even
allowing for the difference between the present and design year traffic, it would
seem that 90 to 95% of the main road network was too narrow for current traffic
volumes. Also due to inadequate maintenance, drainage of roads was inadequate
which resulted in pavement failures. In addition, weak and sub-standard bridges
further  diminish  the  usefulness  of  many  existing  roads.    Although  no
comprehensive nationwide data has been collected, there is sufficient evidence
from project roads that their condition has deteriorated significantly since the
1986 survey was conducted.   Budgetary allocations for maintenance have been
decreasing in real terms during the last several years due to the economic
downturn, and events associated with civil unrest have affected the roads and
bridges in many areas.   These, coupled with outdated and cost-ineffective
maintenance practices, resulted in road authorities not being able to keep up
with maintenance requirements and a substantial backlog has accumulated.
B. Traffic
2.4         Traffic levels in Sri Lanka reflect the country's varying levels of
economic activity and population distribution. Typical intercity roads carry
between 500 and 4,500 vehicles per day (vpd) while roads in and around Colombo
and other major towns carry traffic loads as high as 12,000 vpd.
2.5         The motor vehicle fleet in June 1988, as estimated by the Department
of Registration of Motor Vehicles, totalled about 492,4G0  made up of about
149,000 cars, 226,100 motorcycles, 80,500 trucks and 36,800 buses. In addition,



-7-
there are some 94,000 other types of vehicles including land vehicles used mainly
on tea, rubber and other agricultural estates. Between 1980 and 1988, the number
of motor vehicles in the country increased at a rate of 8.4% per annum (Table
1.2). Although the rate of growth slowed somewhat during 1986-87 to about 2.6%
per annum, the current vehicle fleet is equivalent to an average of 29 vehicles
per 1,000 persons.
2.6         Current vehicle weight regulations in Sri Lanka are specified on
gross vehicle weights for certain types of vehicles, but not specifically on axle
loads and the limits are somewhat inconsistent. Enforcement of the limits is the
responsibility of the traffic police who, because of understaffing and lack of
resources  and equipment,  provide  only  sporadic  coverage.    As  a result,
overloading of trucks is commonplace, causing accelerated pavement deterioration
and, in a number of cases, premature road failure. In order to identify measures
to correct this situation which is causing the road network to deteriorate very
rapidly, the project would finance a study on road materials, design and
construction standards; and on road user charges (para 3.10).
2.7         The continued deterioration of the road network combined with the
growth of traffic volumes and densities, have caused the frequency and severity
of accidents to increase significantly. While many of these may result from
driver error or lack of compliance with traffic regulations, many are due to
substandard and dangerous pavement and roadside conditions. The Government has
recognized the need to make the necessary improvements through an accelerated
rehabilitation program of the national network, and these efforts would be
expanded under the proposed project. Appropriate marking, signs, load control
and speed limit posting and alignment conditions will be introduced for all
project roads and associated structures.
C. Administration and Orsanization
2.8         For a long period, GOSL activities in roads were carried nut by the
Public Works Department. In 1969, the road and building functions were separated
to form the Department of Highways and a Buildings Department. In the period
1970-1978, they were combined and placed under the Ministry of Irrigation, Power
and Highways, which acted as an .Jministrative and planring body. Construction
and maintenance work relating to roads was carried out by other departments
within the same ministry which also dealt with irrigation and power projects.
GOSL policy at that time did not favor the private sector, and thus practically
all work was done by force account through Government agencies, namely, the
State Development and Construction Corporation which undertook bridge
construction; the Territorial Civil Engineering Organization which maintained the
road network; and the Depertment of Machinery and Equipment which procured,
allocated, operated and maintained all plant, vehicles and equipment for roads,
bridges, irrigation and pover through their central and regional workshops.
2.9         In 1981, GOSL enacted the Road Development Authority Act No. 73,
setting up the RDA under the control of the Deipartment of Highways. It functions
as a parastatal agency, and is advised by a Road Development Advisory Board. On
January 1, 1986, RDA was placed under the MTH, and its activities were expanded
by the transfer of responsibilities from the Department of Highways. This step
changed RDA's character from that of a construction agency to one of an



-8-
organization responsible for the overall control of tne national road network and
entrusted with:   (a) studying and analyzing all road needs;  (b) planning,
investigation and fo'.-uOation of road investment programs; (c) recommending
investment prioritie  ?ne preparing development plans; (d) maintenance of and
improvements to exit-t  - ads, bridges, causeways, and culverts; (e) design and
construction of roo   4iA associated struttures; (f) carrying out traffic and
other studies leadirg to appropriate specialist advice in connection with
operational aspects of xhe road network; and (g) carrying out continuing research
and development of procedures and techniques for the economical and efficient
construction, improvement and maintenance of the network.
2.10        In 1987, GOSL apparently concerned with the pressing need for more
maintenance, created a private company- -the Road Construction and Devslopment Co.
Ltd. (RCDC) out of RDA's prevlous Works Department. When RCDC is acting as a
contractor to RDA, full commercial hire rates are charged for any RDA plant used
by RCDC. RDA operates its own accounts, which are subject to Government audit,
and is able to borrow commerx.ially with the permission of MTH.
2.11        Finally in January 1990, a further change was brought about whereby
over 15,000 km of Class C, D and E roads were transferred to the Provincial
Councils. All major primary and secondary roads (Classes A and B--approximately
10,440 km) remrin the responsibility of RDA. Hence, with the exception of the
more difficult periodic maintenance/rehabilitation, all physical operations are
undertaken by external organizations. GOSL expects that the splitting of all
minor road design, construction and maintenance from planning, engineering and
rehabilitation work on the major trunk routes will introduce flexibility,
encourage efficiency, and improve overall performance and value-for-money.
2.12        The present management structure of RDA is detailed in Annex 1, and
illustrated in Chart 1. The Board of Directors comprises ten members; five are
appointed by the Ministries of Transport and Highways, and five others who are
appointed by the Minister of Highways (2), Transport (1), Finance (1), and Power
and Energy (1). The Chairman is responsible for general and technical policy and
decision-making as Chief Executive Officer, and the General Manager is in charge
of the general and technical administration of the Authority through assistance
from eight specialized function directors (Annex 1).
2.13        Under the present structure, the State Minister of Highways can
empower RDA to carry out within its area of responsibility, many of the functions
previously done by the Department of Highways. The difference is that RDA can
charge fees for its services and can fix the wages, salaries and conditions of
service of its staff, permitting such additional advantages as field allowances
and free transport. In this way, RDA can offer incentives to qualified engineers
not available within civil service regulations.
2.14        Despite the incentives which RDA can offer staff, however, it has
experienced difficulty in recent years in maintaining its effectiveness. The
problem of retaining key staff and employing new qualified and experienced
engineers (coupled with the continuing reorganizi.ag activities) have left the
institution in a state of flux, lacking an entrepreneurial approach to executing
work in a highly structured bureaucracy. Morale and motivation are perceived as
hePng low and the Authority suffers from a continuing drain of staff to the
private sector and to other countries where salaries are many times higher and



-9-
prospects better. The civil unrest in recent years has also impinged on the
ability of RDA to carry out its functions. However, the recent stabilizing
trend, coupled with support from external donors in terms of technical
assistance, signals medium to long-term overall improvement. Undoubtedly, the
Authority is moving in the right direction with the help of multilateral and
bilateral assistance.
2.15        With projects undertaken by RDA increasing in number and growing more
complex, there is a need to strengthen RDA's expertise in contract management.
Whereas RDA's staff may be competent and capable, some give the impression of
being stretched beyond their limit due to the number of projects they are
required to manage.   The outcome is that the Construction Management and
Contracts Division (CM&C) of RDA, which is responsible for donor-financed
projects, must resort to the services of external consultants. However, these
services at times are utilized in an inefficient manner as day-to-day contract
management pressures increase.  The proposed project provides for on-the-job
training and provision of specialist advice to CM&C staff (paras 3.9 and 3.14).
D. Plannins. Desian and Construction
2.16        PlanninL  and Desinn:  Planning, design and project appraisal are
handled in RDA by the Engineering Services Division.   The division has five
sections, i.e., traffic planning, highway and bridge design, bridge assessment
and land acquisition/public services.   Planning is mostly for maintenance,
rehabilitation and improvement works as in the last several years no major new
roads have been built, apart from a few bypasses and access roads to new
developments.   The division is responsible for identifying,  analyzing and
justifying all road projects on the basis of updated traffic forecasts, road
condition surveys and an analysis of road capacity.  In the absence of axle
loadings, updated construction costs or vehicle operating costs, the appraisal
of a project does not undergo a rigorous technical and economic analysis.
Generally, a technical report is prepared and submirted to MOF/MPPI for its
consideration so that projects can be approved and included in GOSL budget
estimates.  The division recently received a second ADB technical assistance
grant under which an expatriate joint venture would develop and implement a
computer-aided design and pavement and bridge maintenance management system (para
1.15). This work will complement the activities under the proposed project and
no funds for similar work are required.
2.17        Designs for roads and bridges are carried out by RDA- -either directly
or by employing consultants.   The design standards and criteria used are
generally sound and adequate for conditions in Sri Lanka, although past road
designs have been based on low axle-load parameters, lesulting in under-designed
roads.   RDA has established geometric design criteria and these refer to
desirable maxima and minima for the various road elements. Because design work
is almost exclusively for rehabilitation and improvement of roads and associated
structures, use of these criteria may not necessarily lead to optimum use of
scarce resources.   They are also inconsistently applied in order to meet
prevailing site conditions which, in some instances, may affect driving
conditions and safety.



-10-
2.18        There  has  been  a  vast  improvement  over  earlier  standards,
specifications, and rehabilitation practices, during the preparation of the
proposed project.  Nonetheless, they may not be fully applicable to locally
available materials and methods, and there is a need for a comprehensive review
and a consistent set of standards, specifications and practices to be established
to foster economically optimal solutions with full regard to local conditions.
Under the technical assistance component in the project, a study to achieve this
objective will be made within the first two years of project implementation (para
3.10(c)).
2.19        Construction:  Major road and bridge construction, maintenance/
rehabilitation and improvement work in Sri Lanka is financed by foreign aid and
is carried out by contractors under the direction of RDA's CM&C. The Director
of CM&C is usually nominated as the Engineer. Smaller works are mostly executed
by local contractors under the direction of CM&C either directly or through RDA's
district offices. Minor construction, maintenance and rehabilitation works are
normally entrusted to the district offices under force account, using their own
staff resources but contracting out for the provision of materials and equipment.
Most paving and periodic maintenance is performed by the RCDC on the basis of
RDA's schedule of rates.
2.20        The relationship between client, engineer and contractor needs to be
clarified in RDA, especially CM&C.  The workload of CM&C is heavy but a
significant part of that load stems from its role as the Engineer. When works
are supervised by qualified consultants, local or foreign, they should be
nominated as the Engineer; this would not only reduce the workload on the CM&C's
staff, but more importantly, would also dispel the image of conflict of interest.
This would enable supervision teams to be formed in a timely manner and entrusted
with a wide range of responsibilities in order to enhance CM&C's decision-making
process during contract management.
2.21        The local private contracting industry has been improving steadily
in recent years and many large and small contractors now ean compete in the
sector. RDA is committed to supporting local contractors and leases equipment
to them to enable them to compete better; OECF recently supported this activity
with a loan for acquisition of major road equipment. Nonetheless, not all of the
companies have the required competence, capacity and financial resources to
properly compete with foreign contractors who usually win the larger and more
lucrative contracts.   The local industry is also constrained by lack of
continuity of work due to the dominance in recent years of RCDC which enjoys a
healthy portfolio of projects (para 2.10). In order to enhance the competence
of the local contracting industry and to create a competitive environment in the
sector, the proposed project provides for a study on the local contracting
industry to be undertaken and completed during the first two years of the project
(para 3.10(b)).  The purpose of the study would be to investigate current
practices, identify constraints and recommend measures and actions required to
encourage wider involvement of local contractors in the economic development of
the country.



-11-
E. Road Expenditures and Financing
2.22        Construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of the primary and
secondary trunk routes (Class A and B) is the responsibility of RDA. In addition
to the 10,440 km national road network, RDA will continue to look after some
3,062 bridges, although no inventory of the latter is kept and no up-to-date
condition data is available. All of RDA's roads are paved, but due to lack of
proper maintenance, pavement edges and shoulders have been deteriorating and
inadequate drainage is causing pavement failure. The remaining roads in the
network are the responsibility of provincial and local governments and other
agencies. It is expected that the Provincial Councils (PCs) will organize their
activities after RDA's model when the   transfer of some 1,100 RDA staff,
equipment and facilities is completed (para 2.11). At the time of appraisal,
this decentralization was still underway and an assessment of the result could
not be carried out. However, depending on the capability and motivation of the
PCs, coupled with adequate budgetary allocations, this new structure is likely
to respond to local priorities more effectively and bring about an improvement
in construction, rehabilitation and maintenance. It is likely that RDA would be
required to continue giving minimal technical support to the PCs during the
initial phase of the transfer.
2.23        Although annual allocations for road expenditures appear to be high,
they do not cover the needs of the network and budgetary cuts are common. For
example, while the allocation for 1989 was SL Rs 2.86 billion (Table 2.3), actual
expenditures were SL Rs 1.27 billion- -the result of cuts in the budget. This has
resulted in substandard maintenance on some more heavily-travelled roads and
bridges and total lack of maintenance on others. Financial constraint& have also
compelled RDA to allocate large portions of its budget to the more visible
rehabilitation, improvement and new works, thus leaving few resources for routine
and periodic tdaintenance. Recent studies indicate that about SL Rs 5.0 to 7.0
billion would be needed annually to arrest the decline of the road network and
to raise it to a maintainable state.  In the current environment of limited
resources, such levels are unlikely to be available, thus putting a premium on
prioritization.
2.24        RDA's proposed five-year expenditure program for 1990-94 (Table 2.4)
allocates 87% of projected expenditures to maintenance, rehabilitation and
improvement of the existing network and 13% to new capital works. About 55% of
funds will be contributed by external donors (including IDA under the proposed
project). What appears significant is the notable increase in expenditures for
maintenance and rehabilitation compared to those during previous years (Table
2.3).   As ongoing road projects wind down, an increased allocation for future
works appears to be within the Government's fiscal capability.   Under the
proposed project, RDA is expected to prepare an action plan which will identify
the various road sections, the type of treatment proposed, and the corresponding
allocations needed over the years  to meet milestones  2roposed.    During
negotiations, agreement was reached with GOSL that an annual action plan will be
furnished to IDA (by September 30 of each year) which will reflect sufficient
budgetary allocations for RDA and other agencies (for relocation of utilities)
to ensure that services and resources from agencies of the Government, including
RDA, will be forthcoming during project implementation. The Government also
undertook to amend the counterpart funding allocations to the project in the



-12-
1990-1994 Public Investment Program, in keeping with the agreed implementation
schedule, and to allow for counterpart fundirg in the order of SL Rs 100.0
million for FY91, SL Rs 130.0 million in each of FY92 and FY93 and SL Rs 120.0
million for FY94.
2.25        Funding for road expenditures is derived from a number of sources,
with the road maintenance and rehabilitation program financed through the GOSL's
development/recurrent budget. Generally, the policy of the Government is to
supplement a large share of the budgeted road expenditures through external
donors. GOSL's contribution derives from the revenues from road user charges:
fuel taxes; import duties and turnover taxes on vehicles, tires and parts; and
license fees. Due largely to increased vehicle imports since 1977, road user
revenues have been comfortably above GOSL's expenditures on roads by an average
of about 40%. The 1988 TSPS estimated road user charge revenues at about SL Rs
5.2 billion (based on a crude oil price of US$15.0 per barrel). The effective
taxes on fuel accounted for 76% of the user revenues, while import duties and
taxes on vehicles together comprised about 16% of total revenue. Annual licenses
and other fees, although minor in proportion to fuel revenues, were quite
substantial with a total of SL Rs 330 million. In the absence of true costs for
road works, road user revenues appear more than sufficient to finance adequate
road subsector activities. While it may not be necessary to raise the overall
level of such user charges, the TSPS indicated that the distribution of these
charges by vehicle type, coupled with rocketing costs for construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance, may be inequitable and need revision. A Road
User Charges Study, financed under the project would help the Government to gain
a more comprehensive picture of the coverage of road expenditures by the road
network users (para 3.10 (a)).
III. TRHE PROJECT
A. Backtound
3.1         The proposed project grew out of GOSL's medium-term investment
program for roads covering the period 1987-92, approved by the Government in
1988.    Preliminary discussions on a transport project,  covering  several
subsectors, were held in 1987, consistent with the thrust of GOSL's development
goals and objectives in the sector (para 1.7). It was concluded subsequently
that roads should be de-linked from other transport investments and separate road
and transport projects were identified. The present project aims to rehabilitate
major trunk roads in the west and southwest of Sri Lanka, and complements
projects financed by ADB and ODA in the northeast, central and eastern part of
the country. The project also includes a component to rehabilitate roads damaged
by floods and landslides which occurred during May and June 1989. The project
was prepared with an Advance of US$165,000 from IDA's Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) in January 1988, and a supplemental Advance of US$175,000 in June
1989. Preappraisal took place in January 1990 and appraisal during April/May
1990. At the time of appraisal, final engineering designs were available for 200
km of roads and six bridges which represent about two years of the project's work
program.



-13-
B. Prolect Objectives
3.2         The project's objectives are to:
(a)   facilitate the transport of goods and passengers and to reduce the
cost and delays associated with a deteriorated road system, by
restoring portions of the priority road network and its structures
to a maintainable condition;
(b) assist the Government restore priority road infrastructure damaged
by flooding and landslides in May/June 1989;
(c)   introduce  institutional  improvements  in the planning,  design,
programming and implementation of works, and the administration and
maintenance of the road system, and upgrade technical standards and
introduce efficient use of available materials to achieve greater
cost-effectiveness; and
(d)   upgrade RDA's capacity to supervise and execute rehabilitation works
and identify actions needed to develop the local contracting
industry to undertake roadwork contracts as an alternative to ferce
account works.
C. Proiect Description
3.3         To achieve the above objectives,  the project consists of the
following works, equipment and technical assistance components:
(a)   civil works including:
(i)   rehabWlitation of about 420 km of primary and secondary trunk
roads (Class A and B roads);
(ii) strengthening, repairing, wiVening and redecking of thirteen
bridges and replacement/reconstruction of an additional eleven
bridges;
(b)   urgent repairs, rehabilitation and limited new construction of
roadways, pavements, drains, retaining walls and cross-drainage
structures damaged by floods and landslides during May and June
1989;
(c)   procurement of vehicles, microcomputers, survey equipment, computer
software and office equipment to enable the Director, CM&C, his
senior staff and consultants to monitor and control contracts more
effectively; and
(d)   consultancy services for design and supervision and technical
assistance including three studies on the road contracting indttstry,
on construction materials and design standards, and road user
charges.



-14-
3.4         The location of the road sections proposed for rehabilitation and of
the bridges proposed for repair and reconstruction, are shown on IBRD Map No.
22434. These were selected from a larger program proposed by RDA on criteria of
obvious risk of failure and highest economic returns. The overall scope of the
project was limited by scarcity of resources and by the implementing
institution's absorptive capacity.
(a) &d4 JRehbilitation Works (USS54.6 million)
3.5         Road rehabilitation is planned for about 420 km of main and secondary
routes in six districts (Gampaha, Colombo, Kalutara, Galle, Matara and
Hambantota) in the western and southern provinces of the island. Of these, 101
km between Colombo and Galle will be rehabilitated under cofinancing provided by
the Economic Development Cooperation Fund (EDCF) of the Republic of Korea. Road
sections have been chosen on the basis of their pavement condition, traffic
volumes, and pavement roughness. The resulting list of road sections and the
traffic and roughness data are shown in Table 3.1. About 100 km of road sections
on primary and 100 am on secondary routes have been reinspected, surveyed in
detail and pavement strength tests have been carried out to confirm the results
of visual inspection and to calculate the appropriate pavement thickness and
intervention required. The work comprises full-width surfacing over the entire
length to restore structural strength and integrity required for continuous
serviceability of about 190 km of primary roads, by repairing pot-holes with
bitumen-bound macadam, grading of unpaved surfaces and shoulders, reinstating
regular road-side drainage, side slopes and verges, correcting damaged road sub-
base at pavement edges with dry bound macadam, strengthening and shape correction
of pavement or roadway with a bituminous regulating course overlay to restore
structural strength and resurfacing with asphalt wearing course to restore ride
quality on major routes (with average daily traffic over 3,500). The remaining
230 km will receive similar selective repairs, strengthening and shape correction
of pavement and roadway including improvement to longitudinal and lateral
drainage. These remaining roads, with average daily traffic below 3,500, will
be surfaced and sealed with a single asphaltic concrete regulating/wearing course
to restore structural strength and ride quality (Annex 2).
(b) Bridge Stren_thening. Rehabilitation and Replacement (USS6.2 million)
3.6         Twenty-four bridges, four of which will be financed by EDCF, have
been identified (see Table 3.2 and Map) along the 420 km of road sections where
there is a danger of structural failure, often due to corrosion of the steel
superstructure or reinforcing bars, or where the structures are weak and so
narrow or badly aligned that the bridge constitutes a significant impediment to
traffic. It is proposed that these will be repaired or replaced, usually using
precast, prestressed concrete beams.   Many of the bridges recommended for
replacement are either of the through-truss or deck-truss bridge type. These
bridges present serious obstacles to traffic because either they cannot
accommodate container trucks or they are so badly corroded and weak that they are
potential locations for disaster on heavily-trafficked routes.  All bridges
intended for reconstruction are old structures which have outlived their useful
lives, structural integrity having been weakened as a result of high traffic
volumes and continuously increasing axle loads. These will be totally dismantled
and replaced by new reinforced concrete/prestressed concrete superstructures on



-15-
new foundations (abutments and/or piers), where necessary. Foundations still in
good condition will be reused and extetided to accommodate the wider carriageway
(Annex 2).
(c) Road Flood Rehabilitation (USS2.5 million)
3.7         In addition to the six districts outlined above (para 3.5), GOSL has
requested assistance to help finance works to repair, rehabilitate and/or
reconstruct road infrastructure in the Districts of Kegalla and Ratnapura which
were damaged as a consequence of the floods and landslides in May and June 1989.
This component of the project would comprise priority works of GOSL's program to
rehabilitate flood-affected roads and ancillary structures, and would include:
(i)   ReLair. Reconstruction and Limited New Construction of Protection
Works:   These works would encompass guide bunds, gabion walls,
embankments, channelization, as well as protection of bridges
(abutments, piers, wingwalls) and approaches to road embankments;
(ii)  Repair. Reconstruction and Limited New Construction of Cross-
Drainave Structures:   Cross-drainage works financed under the
project would include repairs and reconstruction of small bridges
and culverts.   New construction works would replace structures
washed out as a result of floods and landslides.   GOSL/RDA have
placed a high priority on the immediate repair and reconstruction of
these structures since associated road sections are closed to
vehicular traffic causing substantial inconvenience to road
transport and the communities they serve; and
(iii) Repair and Reconstruction of Roads: Trhe project would repair and
reconstruct selected sections of roads. Road works would include
filling of embankment breaches and washouts, the repair of eroded
embankments as well as the restoration of road shoulders and the
repair and strengthening of damaged pavements. Reconstruction work
on road sections would also include some limited widening of the
existing roadway while retaining the existing alignment within its
present right-of-way.
(d) Equiment (USSO.2 million)
3.8         To facilitate project management, the project will finance the
purchase of three vehicles, computers, printers, a plotter, software, office
supplies and equipment to enable the team to maintain detailed project records
for management and monitoring purposes. In addition, the project will finance
the purchase of some investigation and survey equipment, which will be used by
a project monitoring unit (para 3.14' for investigation and checking purposes on
site (Table 3.3).
(e) Technical Assistance (USS6.5 million)
3.9         There is an urgent need to strengthen the office of the Director,
CM&C with an advisor, experienced in pavement design/construction and contract
management, who, together with two counterparts from RDA will be responsible for



-16-
the manaLement and monitoring of the groiect. A total of about 36 staff-months
is included in the project at an average cost of US$13,000 per staff-month,
including all allowances, and external travel (paras 2.15, 3.14).  Design and
spervision is estimated at US$5.2 million equivalent or 1,630 staff-months, of
which approximately 230 staff-months for foreign dnd about 1,400 staff-months of
local consultancy inputs. Of the 1,630 staff-months proposed, it is intended to
provide up to 30 staff-months at a total cost of US$60,000 to be retroactively
financed under the project, in order that work on preparation of final designs
and contract documents can be expedited (para 3.15).
3.10        In addition to the two consultancies outlined above, three studies
have also been agreed:
(a)   Road User Charges:  This study will update and refine information
and analysis of road use costs and revenues contained in the 1988
TSPS. The objective of the study is to determine the extent of
present distortions and the reforms needed to correct them. Terms
of Reference are shown in Annex 3, and consultants are to be
appointed by April 15, 1991.
(b)   Domestic Road Contractinn Industrv:   The study will investigate
current practices, analyze constraints the industry is facing, and
recommend an action plan of measures for its development by
introducinLg  international  practices  into  the  industry.    The
consultants would identify the changes needed to develop a more
efficient operation to permit members of the domestic contracting
industry to' contribute more to the economic development of the
country, and to increase the benefits to Sri Lanka generated by
construction projects being prepared or implemented through foreign
assistance.    Terms  of Reference  are  shown  in Annex  4,  and
consultants are to be appointed by May 15, 1991; and
(c)   Road Materials. Desimi and Construction Standards: This study would
define, compare and recommend improved standards and specifications
suitable for locally available materials and techniques.   The
consultants would inventory materials which can be economically and
efficiently used in road construction and maintenance and develop
pavement construction and maintenance techniques which would make
optimal use of local materials and minimize costs. A unified set of
road construction and maintenance standards (geometric and other
essential parameters) would be prepared as well as technical
guidelines and manuals for pavement structures for RDA. Terms of
reference are under preparation by RDA, with appointment of
consultan:s expected by September 30, 1991.
IDA and GOSL would review the conclusions and recommendations of these studies
and develop revisions of prevailing practices under detailed action plans. The
datets of appointment for consultants and for the implementation of
recommendations resulting from these three studies were agreed during
negotiations.



-17-
D. Cost Estimates
3.11        Project cost estimates are shown as a summary in the following table,
with details given in Tables 3.4 through 3.6. The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$70.5 million equivalent of which US$40.3 msillion equivalent or
57% is foreign exchange cost and US$30.2 million equivalent, or 43%, is local
cost (Lncluding US$8.3 million equivalent for taxes and duties). Cost estimates
are in April 1990 prices and include physical contingencies of 5% for road
rehabilitation works (for which rinal engineering designs have been completed)
and 10% for all remaining packages to be designed. Similarly, a 10% physical
contingency allowance has been made for all bridges for which final designs are
completed by RDA, while a 15% physical contingency has been applied to bridges
yet to be designed. A 10% physical contingency has been allowed on the works for
the road flood rehabilitation program. To provide for inflation during project
implementation, the following inflation values have been used in calculating
price contingencies for local expenditures: 12% for 1990, 10% for ;991, 8% for
1992, 7% for 1993 and 6% for 1994, 4% for 1995 and 3.7% for 1996 and thereafter;
for foreign expenditures:  4.9% for 1990 through 1995 and 3.7% for 1996 and
thereafter.
8L Rs million               USS Million         S   X Total
Cmonent                                                                 Foreign  B"e
Local    Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign  Total    E -xchse Cost
Roads               737.2    1,018.1    1,755.3    18.43   25.45   43.88    58      76
BrLdges              99.1      99.1      198.2    2.48    2.48    4.96      50       9
Flood Rehabilitation  67.2     22.4      89.6    1.68    0.56    2.24       25       4
Equipnt               S.8       3.8       7.6     0.10    0.10    0.20      S0       I
Technical Assistance
Project Support     92.3      96.4      188.7    2.30    2.41    4.72      51       8
Policy Development   6.3      25.2       31.5    0.16    0.43    0.79      80       1
P7                    0.0      20.0      20.0    0.00    O.S0    JO.S0      100      I
Total Base Cost    1,005.9    1,285.0    2,290.9    23.15   32.13   57.28   56    100
Contingecieat
Physical            85.7      101.8     187.5    2.14    2.55    4.69      54       8
Price              327.1      510.1     837.4    2.89    5.66    8.55 .            15
Total Contingen.    413.0     611.9    1,024.9    5.03    8.21   13.24      62      23
Total Cost         1,418.9    1,896.9    3,315.8    30.18   40.34   70.52   57    123
3.12        The estimated cost of contract works is based on unit rates developed
by RDA and their consultants. These reflect updated cost experience for similar
works in the Second Roads Project (Loan 2517-CE) and other recent contract works
and on interviews with contractors presently carrying out similar work.
E. Project Financinm
3.13        An IDA credit of SDR 30.6 million (US$42.5 million equivalent) is
proposed to finance about 68% of total project cost, net of taxes and duties.
EDGF has agreed to provide financing of US$14.5 million for the Colombo-Galle
Road component of the project, for 20 years, with five years of grace at 3.5%
interest. A Loan Agreement between GOSL and EDCF is expected to become effective
by March 31, 1991.  GOSL will provide US$13.5 million or about 19% of total



-18-
project cost. The Government would pass on the proceeds of the credit to RDA as
budgetary allocations for the agreed sub-projects. It was agreed that works on
five bridges, selected urgent flood rehabilitation works (before the next
monsoon), and final engineering designs of the road sections in the first
contract to be financed by IF  should start immediately.  It is estimated that
the cost of these activitics, including the initial cost of setting up a
monitoring unit would amount to about SL Rs 81.2 million (US$2.0 million
equivalent). Therefore, to enable GOSL to begin these activities, retroactive
financing in an amount not exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent, or 3.5% of the
credit, is proposed for expenditures incurred after March 15, 1990.  During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the financing plan
outlined below, and assurances were received on GOSL's commitment to meet its
share of local costs, including possible overruns.
Financing Plan (US$ million)
GOSL        I           EDCF         Total
Road Rehabilitation                  11.9        31.3         11.4        54.6
Bridge Rehabilitation                 1.2         3.1          1.9         6.2
Flood Rehabilitation                  0.3         2.2          -           2.5
Equipment                             0.1         0.1          -           0.2
Technical Assistance
Project Support                                  4.5          1.2         5.7
Policy Development                               0.8          -           0.8
PPF                                              _ 0          -A0
TOTAL                          13.5        42.5        14.5         70.5
F. Imnlementation
3.14        The project will be carried out over an eight-year period and will
be completed by December 31, 1997, with RDA as the executing agency (Chart 2).
The Director of CM&C will have overall responsibility for execution; however, a
Project Management and Monitoring Unit (PMMU) will be established at its
headquarters to be headed by an advisor and two deputy coordinators, who will be
assigned by RDA and who will be responsible for road ccntracts and bridge
contracts respectively. The PMKU advisor (terms of reference in Annex 5) will
be an expatriate engineer experienced in pavement design and construction and
contract management. He will provide on-the-job training to RDA staff, and will
be answerable directly to the Director CM&C and through him to RDA's higher
management.   This core team will review designs, prepare tender documents,
evaluate tenders, ensure timely letting of contracts for civil works and
technical assistance stu.- Jes, monitor progress and costs and keep a tight control
of the project budget. Establishment of the Project Management and Monitoring
Unit within RDA. and the apnointment of the expatriate Advisor and of the two RDA
counterpart staff acceptable to IDA is a condition for credit effectiveness.
3.15        In order to ensure close supervision of the contracts and compliance
with specified rehabilitation methods, RDA will appoint (by April 30, 1991)
supervising consultants, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.9,



-19-
terms of reference are shown in Annex 6). Larger bridge rehabilitation contracts
will be supervised by local consultants acceptable to IDA, whilst supervision of
the smaller contracts will be the responsibility of RDA staff. The designs for
about 200 km of roads and six bridges have been completed. The design of the
remaining road works will be carried out by suitably qualified local consulting
firms. For most of the bridges in the project, RDA's stardard designs can be
used. The work to be done on the bridges is within the capacity of domestic
contractors, although they may need to hire some special equipment during
construction from RDA. Before either widening, redecking or replacement of all
or part of any bridge superstructure is undertaken, detailed site investigations
will be carried out by RDA and a report confirming the structural integrity of
the remaining components (piers, abutments, foundations, girders, etc.) will be
reviewed by IDA before contractors are invited to bid for such contracts.
3.16        The technical assistance component of the project, related to policy
development, comprises three studies to be undertaken by consultants appointed
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.10).  Two studies (i.e., road
materials, design and construction standards, and domestic road contracting
industry) will be ca;ried out by RDA. The consultants for the third study, road
user charges, will be appointed by the Technical Secretariat to IMN-CPT in MTH.
C. Procurement and Contractinu
3.17        Procurement arrangements for the project components are summarized
below:
Project Components             ICB      LCB      Other    Total
------USA million------
1. Civil Works:
Roadworks                  30.9     9.7      14.0     54.6
(23.9)   (7.4)    (0.0)   (31.3)
Bridgeworks                 -       4.2      2.0       6.2
(0.0)   (3.1)    (0.0)    (3.1)
2.  Road Flood Rehabilitation  -         -        2.5      2.5
(0.0)   (0.0)    (2.2)    (2.2)
3.  Equipment                   -        -        0.2      0.2
(0.0)   (0.0)    (0.1)    (0.1)
4. Technical Assistance:
Project Support            -        -       5.7       5.7
(0.0)   (0.0)    (4.5)    (4.5)
Policy Development         -        -       0.8       0.8
(0.0)   (0.0)    (0.8)    (0.8)
5.  PPF                         -        -        0.5      0.5
{0m    (0 0)    (0.5)    (0.5)
TOTALS                     30.9    13.9     25.7      70.5
(23.9)  (10.3N    (8.1)   (42.5)
Note: All costs include contingencies. Figures in parentheses
are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.



-20.
3.18        All contracts for roads and bridges with an estimated cost of US$2.0
million equivalent or more would be awarded after ICB. Other contracts would be
procured under LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. One road and three bridge
contracts, to be financed by EDCF, will be procured through limited international
bidding open to selected contractors from the Republic of Korea and Sri Lanka
under EDCF procurement requirements. About 60& of the works financed by IDA
would be procured under ICB.   The balance consists of short and scattered
sections of road which are unlikely to prove attractive to international
contractors. Six bridge contracts, also to be financed by IDA, are of a size
tLat would not interest foreign contractors and can be handled by local
contractors.  All contractors will be subject to prequalification.   ICB bids
submitted by prequalified local firms or joint ventures of foreign and local
firms with majority local participation would be eligible for price preference,
provided they meet the criteria to be set out in the bidding documents.
3.19        The civil works associated with the rehabilitation of flood damage
consist of minor works scattered over a number of road sections and would best
be carried out by force account under the control of RDA District Engineers.
3.20        Equipment, which comprises only minor items such as vehicles and
computer equipment, will be procured through prudent international shopping in
accordance with World Bank guidelines.   Consultancy services for project
management, design, supervision and technical assistance will be procured in
accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
For the Colombo-Galle road section and its bridges, consultants from the Republic
of Korea in association with Sri Lankan consultants will be appointed to
superAise the contracts. All contracts above US$2.0 million equivalent will be
subject to prior review by IDA. The prior review requirements are expected to
cover 45% of total procurement.  This percentage is acceptable, taking into
account that EDCF is financing several major contracts not subject to IDA review.
LCB and force account contracts will be subject to ex-post review. Procurement
arrangements for the project were agreed with GOSL during negotiations.
R.  Disbursements
3.21        Disbursements from the IDA credit will extend six months beyond
project completion to June 30, 1998. This is in line with the standard profile
for the sector, and would be made on the following basis: (a) 78S of total
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of total expenditures for consultarny
services and te^hnical assistance; and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for
vehicles, supplies and equipment, and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 65% for items procured locally. A PPF which was approved to facilitate
the preparation of this project, would be refinanced from the credit proceeds
after the credit has been declared effective.   A schedule of estimated
disbursements is shown in Annex 7.
3.22        Full documentation would be required by IDA to support withdrawal
applications for all expenditures under contracts in excess of US$50,000
equivalent. Disbursements for expenditures on individual contracts of less than
US$50,000 equivalent would be permitted on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOE). Supporting documentation would be retained by RDA and would be subject
to auditing under agreed procedures and would be made available to IDA



-21-
supervision missions.  A Special Account would be established to facilitate
payment of eligible expenditures. This account would be maintained in US Dollars
with an authorized allocation of US$1.9 million representing an estimated average
of four months expenditures, and would cover all categories apart from large
items of expenditure which would be funded outside the Special Account. Except
for expenditures greater than US$500,000 that would greatly deplete the Special
Account, it is expected that all expenditures would be channelled through this
account.  Withdrawal applications, supported by all necessary documentation,
would be aggregated in amounts of about US$500,000 and submitted at not more than
monthly intervals. Disbursement arrangements and method of operating the Special
Account were agreed with GOSL during negotiations.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.23        RDA would establish and maintain a separate project account for
expenditures under the project. The records, accounts and financial statements
of RDA and the Special Account will be audited annually. During negotiations,
GOSL agreed that annual audits of the project account would be carried out in
accordance with gei.erally accepted auditing standards by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA. Audit reports, in a format satisfactory
to IDA, for each financial year would be furnished to IDA within nine months of
the end of the financial year, although !DA will work closely with RDA to prepare
final audited accounts within six months. The audit would contain a separate
opinion by the auditors that all disbursements made on the basis of SOEs were for
works and services completed and incurred for the purposes of the project. A
separate opinion would also be obtained from the auditors regarding the
operations of the Special Account.
3.24        Compliance with audit covenants under the ongoing Second Roads
Project (Loan 2517-CE) has been satisfactory. The accounts of RDA are properly
designed and audited annually and carry a separate assessment by the auditor
recording material deficiencies and/or weaknesses in the accounting and internal
controls of RDA, if any. Audit reports are prepared and submitted to RDA's
management and forwarded to IDA within six to nine months of the fiscal year end.
Lately, RDA has also instituted a system whereby project accounts for the fiscal
year are forwarded to IDA as soon as they are released to the auditors.
J. Monitoring and ReRortinj
3.25        Institution building is of primary importance to the project and is
made even more urgent by the recent changes in RDA's organization. It is planned
within the project to create a capability for RDA to: (a) monitor the economic,
engineering and social aspects of the project, according to arrangements which
were agreed at negotiations; (b) plan and design highway and bridge
rehabilitation and iiuprovcment effectively aind efficiently; and (c) improve
costing and cost control procedures as an aid to better forecasting of
expenditures. Initially, these tasks, including monitoring, will be principally
undertaken by the expatriate advisor together with the Sri Lankan counterparts.
Close liaison will be necessary with other agencies, upon whom reliance must be
placed during the first part of the project, at least, for support and
coordination services and the use of specialized equipment.



-22-
3.26        The assumptions used in pavement design estimates and in the economic
analysis must be monitored. In particular, latest traffic counts are necessary
to re-evaluate the economic analysis results; subgrade testing must be carried
out to confirm the depth of extra base or overlay required; and updated local
cost data should be used to refine estimates of project costs. As there has been
mixed cost experience for highway construction in Sri Lanka over the past ten
years, especially in regard to contract work as a resuit of the political
situation, it is to be expected that bids will be subject to wide variations of
price.
3.27        RDA would be responsible for submitting quarterly progress reports
to IDA on the project (Annex 8). The reports, to be submitted not 'Later than one
month after the end of each quarter, would indicate progress made, problems
encountered during the quarter under review and the steps taken or proposed to
remedy them.   The reports would include up-to-date data for all project
activities.   Reporting on the project will be reviewed periodically and
adjustments made as necessary.
3.28        The final report would include all information necessary for IDA to
prepare Parts I and III of a Project Completion Report (PCR) and would include
an updated economic evaluation of the project components after their completion.
RDA would prepare and submit Part II of the PCR after reviewing Parts I and III,
in accordance with IDA's guidelines on the preparation of PCRs.
IV. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Evaluation
4.1         Introduction.    The  project  is  designed  to  prevent  further
deterioration of Sri Lanka's vital road network which serves the main centers of
economic activity. The road sections included in the rehabilitation program have
exceeded  their  economic  life  and  are  steadily  deteriorating.    Further
deterioration of the project roads, which already carry heavy traffic, would
result in serious transport capacity constraints as the principal means of
transport in the project area is by road.
4.2         Benefits and Beneficiaries.  The benefits of the project would b-:
(a) reduced vehicle operating costs resulting from road rehabilitation and
improvement and bridge replacement and repairs; (b) avoidance of bridge closures
and possible catastrophic accidents due to bridge failures; (c) improved project
execution with technical assistance and training to be provided under the
project; and (d) formulation of a strategy to strengthen the local contracting
industry through a study to be financed under the project.
4.3         The quantifiable benefits were measured by the direct savings derived
by highway users. The benefits include only the reduction in vehicle operating
costs which were determined by comparing the operating costs of five types of
vehicles, i.e., passenger cars/taxis, minibuses, buses, light trucks and heavy
trucks travelling on the project road sections with and without the proposed
rehabilitation. Annex 9 contains the methodology and main assumptions adopted
for the economic analysis.



-23-
4.4         Distribution of Benefits. The trucking industry plays a key role in
the distribution of industrial raw materials, collection of tree crops for
exports and transport of imported foodgrains, thus affecting the welfare of the
entire population.   It is reasonable to assume that transport savings made
possible by the project would be passed on to the consumer in the form of lower
prices and increased product availability, in view of the competitive trucking
industry in Sri Lanka. In the case of passenger transport, all classes of the
population are highly mobile. Buses typically make up 30-40% of the total traffic
flow and account for over 80% of total passenger kilometers. Transport cost
savings obtainable from the project would accrue at first to the bus owners, but
they should be passed on to the travelling public as the bus transport industry
is very competitive.
4.5         Traffic Volumes and Growth. Existing traffic volumes on the prcject
road sections were established on the basis of the latest traffic counts
conducted between 1987 and 1989. The project road sections carry relatively
heavy traffic ranging from 814 to 22,861 average annual daily traffic (AADT) in
1989, and connect major cities autd agricultural production areas. All but two
of the sections proposed for asphaltic concrete (AC) overlay carry 2,500 AADT or
more with the remaining sections carrying 1,900-2,300 AADT. Most of the sections
proposed for regulating course (RC) surfacing are expected to carry about
1,500-2,500 AADT in the opening years of the rehabilitated roads, with one
section carrying only 1,032 AADT (Table 4.1). About 70-75% of total motorized
traffic is typically buses and trucks with passenger cars, taxis and jeeps
accounting for 25-30%.
4.6         Available data indicate that between 1984 and 1988, the increases in
traffic volumes ranged from about 4% to 12% depending on the location in the
project area. The largest increases were accounted for by the minibuses after
the Government introduced an import liberalization policy in 1977. Between 1982
and 1988, the total number of registered vehicles increased at 7.7% p.a. (Table
1.2). During the 1975-1988 period, the volume of auto diesel and petrol sales
increased  at 4% p.a.  (Table A4.1-5).    The economic analysis  adopted a
conservative estimate of 3 to 6% annual traffic increases in forecasting over a
twenty-year period. In computing economic benefits, only the normal traffic
growth has been taken into account.
4.7         Economic Costs.   The estimated economic  s-osts of AC  and RC
overlaying, shown in Table 4.2, exclude taxes and duties, but include physical
contingencies of 5% for the Group I roads, 10% for the Group II roads, 10% for
the designed bridges and 15% for the bridges for which designs have not been
completed. The total cost of the road rehabilitation calculated in this way is
estimated at SL Rs 1,663 million.  The bridge costs were added to the road
improvement costs. The unit costs used to calculate economic rates of return
(ERR) include both road and bridge rehabilitation work as well as the costs of
design and construction supervision, and thus cover 100% of project costs. The
costs of routine and periodic road maintenance with and without the improvements
are all also included in the analysis.
4.8         Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity.  The overall ERR of the
rehabilitation program is estimated to be 33.1%. In view of the high traffic



-24-
volumes on the roads included in the rehabilitation program, it is not surprising
that all the sections included in the RC program yielded very high returns
ranging from a low of 21.9% to a high of 41.7%, with an average of 31.0% (Table
4.3). On the typical road sections where AADT ranged from about 1,700 to 2,500,
the ERRs ranged from 26% to 36% (Table 4.4).
4.9         Similarly, for the road sections proposed for AC surfaces, the ERRs
ranged from 20.5% to 98.1% (Tables 4.5 and 4.6), with an average return of 34.3%.
The highest return of 98.1% was obtained on the road section with AADT of 9,032
in the opening year and 20.5% where the AADT was lowest at 2,415. On typical
sections where AADT ranged from about 4,000 to 7,000, the ERRs were from 31% to
over 80%
4.10        These results indicate that the proposed road rehabilitation program
is long overdue. Further delay in its implementation would mean substantial
economic benefits foregone.   As is the case with most road rehabilitation
projects, the ERRs on the project road sections are very high since the cost of
patching and resealing is relatively small, compared to large, immediate benefits
obtainable from the improvement of riding surface.
4.11        If costs increase by 15%, the average ERR would be reduced to 30.4%.
If the benefits decreased by 15%, the ERR would be reduced to 30.0%. If the cost
increases by 15% while the benefit decreases by the same amount, the ERR still
yields 27.5%. The r 'tch value analysis shown in Table 4.7 indicates that the
cost alone would have to increase by more than 400%, or the benefits alone
decrease by 80%, for the net present value (at 10%) to become zero.
B. Risks
4.12        The major risk is the unstable security situation in the country
which could affect implementation and costs. Although the political situation
has shown some signs of improving, measures are proposed under the project to
closely monitor implementation and control costs. To this end, flexibility has
been incorporated into the implementation schedule to allow for the initial
contracts to be in areas previously unaffected by political unrest. Works will
be initially awarded at annual intervals in order to monitor the situation and
enable the timing of the later contracts to be adjusted to the prevailing
conditions.   Similarly, changes in fuel prices resulting from the current
volatile situation in the Middle East may materially affect project costs,
although it is too early to make a judgement at this point. A second risk is the
possible weakening of the Government's commitment to maintaining rehabilitated
project roads. This would be minimized by continued IDA monitoring of the annual
maintenance budgets, the adequacy of which will be reviewed jointly. Another
risk is the possible over-extension of RDA's engineering and management capacity
by ongoing and future commitments. This would be addressed by implementing the
project with appropriate supervision by consultants and by strengthening RDA's
capacity and improving its efficiency through technical assistance and training
of its staff in contract administration, management and cost control.



-25-
C. Environmental Impact
4.13        The project works lie within a road reserve which has scrved the same
purpose for many decades. Because the proposed road and bridge works involve no
major earthworks, realignments or changes in natural drainage, there will be no
adverse intrusion into the environment and the need for resettlement is not
envisaged.   Some noise and dust created during the rehabilitation work may
temporarily affect adjoining areas. The long-term effect of the works will be
beneficial as they will improve road safety for vehicles and pedestrians, reduce
user discomfort, allow a smoother flow of traffic and improve drainage with a
consequent lowering of current levels of traffic noise, dust and air pollution
and a reduction in the present susceptibility to flooding of the roadside
dwellings and urban areas.
4.14         A special study on design standards and specifications, financed
under the project, will aim at ensuring that rehabilitation works will continue
to be environmentally acceptable (para 3.10). Provisions will be incorporated
into the contract documents to provide environmental safeguards in respect of:
(a) regrading and landscaping borrow areas, quarries and spoil tips that are
opened specifically for this project; (b) storage areas, especially those for
diesel fuel and bitumen; (c) safe disposal of pavement and other materials
removed during rehabilitation; (d) sanitary arrangements in offices, yards and
on site; and (e) avoiding pollution of water courses and groundwater.
D. SDecial Considerations
4.15        The project does not target poverty groups directly, but project
roads have been selected for their high return, which are expected to include low
income users. The flood rehabilitation component is expected to directly assist
rural low-income families by restoring access for agricultural inputs/outputs.
The project supports privatization through assistance to the local contracting
industry. Although the project does not address women in development directly,
it is expected to generate employment opportunities for dwellers in the vicinity
of project works in the more labor-intensive operations.
V. AGREMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on:
(a)   an annual action plan will be furnished to IDA (by September 30 of
each year beginning September 1991) to include inter alia sufficient
budgetary allocations for RDA and other agencies to ensure that
services and resources from agencies of the Government, including
RDA, will be forthcoming during project implementation (para 2.24);
(b)   a study of Road User Charges in accordance with agreed terms of
reference will be carried out under the supervision of the Technical
Secretariat to INC-CPT by consultants to be appointed by Aptil 15,
1991 (para 3.10(a));



-26-
(c)   a study on the Domestic Road Contracting Industry in accordance with
agreed terms of reference will be carried out by consultants to be
appointed by May 15, 1991 (para 3.10(b));
(d)   a study on Road Materials, Design and Construction Standards in
accordance with agreed terms of reference will be carried by out by
consultants to be appointed by September 30, 1991 (para 3.10 (c));
(e)   the recommendations resulting from studies under (b), (c) and (d)
above will be implemented in consultation with IDA (para 3.10);
(f)   the financing plan as well as GOSL's commitment to meet its share of
local costs, including possible cost overruns in project costs (para
3.13); and
(g)   the procurement, disbursement, and reporting requirements (paras
--.20-3.?3).
Conditions of Effectiveness
5.2         Conditions of Effectiveness will be the establishment of the Project
Management and Monitoring Unit within RDA and appointment of the advisor and two
RDA counterpart staff acceptable to IDA (para 3.14).
Recommendation
5.3         On the basis of the above conditions and agreements, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 30.6 million (US$42.5 million equivalent) to
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on standard terms with 40 years
maturity.



'-2 7-Ane1
Page 1 of 6
SRI   NR
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Road Development Authoritv - Organization and Resgonsibilities
1.          The Road Development Authority (RDA) was established in 1981; since
that time, it has undergone numerous realignments of functions and structural
reorganizations.11 The lines of authority since 1986 places the RDA under the
State Minister of Highways which in turn reports to the Ministry of Transport and
Highways--a Cabinet level post.  A State Minister of Transport--counterpart to
the State Minister of Highways--is responsible for other transport sectors
including railways, trucking, and passenger transport.
2.          The  major  responsibilities  of  RDA  are  the  maintenance  and
construction of roads and bridges which comprise the national network. Requests
for budget allocations from RDA are submitted (through appropriate channels) to
the Ministry of Planning and Policy Implementation and the Ministry of Finance.
3.          A subsidiary company to the RDA was established in 1987, the Road
Construction and Development Company (Pvt) Ltd. This is a private company which
carries out the predominate share of contractual work on behalf of RDA under a
strict client/contractor relationship.
Total Roads and Bridges
4.          The roads and highway structure in the country comprise about 97,376
km of paved and unpaved roads, and about 5,262 bridges (See Attachment 1). RDA's
responsiblity includes only Class A and B roads and bridges, involving 10,442 km
roads (11%), and 3,062 bridges. The roads for which RDA is responsible are all
paved and comprise the national road network. Prior to 1990, the number of roads
under the responsiblity of RDA was about 25,744 km of Class A, B, C, D and E
roads. However, beginning January 1990, responsibility for care and maintenance
of about 15,302 km of roads (16%) (Class C, D, E) and about 2,200 bridges was to
I/    Responsibility for roads and bridges has been:
Prior to 1969: Public Works Department.
1969: Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways, Department of
Highways (DOH). Several government agencies executed work for DOH,
i.e.,   State   Development   Construction   Corporation   (bridge
construction);   Territorial   Civil   Engineering   Organization
(roadworks); and the Department of Machinery and Equipment
(vehicles, plant and equipment).
1981:   Road Development Authority was  established  to execute
roadworks for DOH.
1986 - Present: RDA assumed all responsibilities from DOH.
1990:  RDA responsibility reduced to include only Class A and B
roads and bridges which comprise the national road network.



-28-
Annex I
Page 2 of 6
be transferred from the RDA to ti._ Provincial Councils--a devolution of repon-
sibility which is currently underway. The remaining roads are entrusted to the
responsibility of local governments (52,244 km or 53%) and specialized agencies,
i.e., Janatha Estate Development Board, Sri Lanka Plantation Corporation,
Irrigation Department, Forest Department, the Mahaweli Authority and Land
Commisioner Department (19,389 km or 20%).
Organization of EDA
5.          A ten-member Board of Directors serves in an advisory capacity to the
RDA; the members are appointed as follows:
5 members - Ministry of Transport and Highways
2 members - State Minister of Highways
1 member - State Minister of Transport
1 member - Ministry of Finance
1 member - Ministry of Power and Energy
6.          The Chairman of RDA acts as Chief Executive Officer, and a General
Manager is in charge of the general and technical administration with the
assistance of eight functional divisions as follows:
(a)  Administration Division.   Responsibilities include personnel and
administration matters. This division is staffed by approximately
59 staff, 89% of whom are support level.
(b)   Finance Division.  Maintains records on finances and controls and
monitors expenditures. About 60 staff are employed in this division
including about ten accountants.
(c)   Internal Audit Division.   Audit and examination of accounting
records is undertaken to verify the legitimacy and accuracy of
expenditures. The division also keeps records on vehicular accidents
and files insurance claims when applicable. Staff assigned to this
function total about 16 including three internal auditors and eight
audit assistants.
(d)   Training Division.  This division consists of about 10 staff who
coordinate education and training programs for RDA personnel in
order  to  improve  their  effectiveness.    The  program  includes
identification of training needs and preparation of training
programs; organizing lectures, seminars and field visits; arranging
training at other institutions; on-the-job training; library
services; preparation of technical notes; and training of trainers.
About 50 engineers were undergoing training as of February 1990.
(e) Research and Development Division. This office provides advice and
assistance in quality control during construction and maintenance of
various projects undertaken by RDA. The division consists of two
sections, i.e., Regional Services and the Central Laboratorias and
Projects section, including nine provincial field laboratories and
other project laboratories set up at major construction sites. This
division employs about 173 staff including about 16 engineers, one
chemist and a geologist.



-29-                            A_nes 1
Page 3 of 6
(f)   Constuction Nanasment and Contracts DLvision. Management of road
and bridge rehabilitation projects funded with foreign aid (other
than the component of IDA Credit 1883-CE (ref. para 6(j) below).
Projects include those funded by the Asian Development Bank, the
Overseas Economic Development Fund, and IDA. This division employs
45 staff including five project coordinators and 18 engineers.
(g)   Unglneerinf Services Division.   This division is headed by its
director with five deputy directors for:
- Traffic Management and Road Planning;
- Highway Designs;
- Bridge Designs;
- Bridge Assessment; and
- Land Acquisition and Shifting of Public Services.
Its primary responsibilities are to plan and design road and bridge
projects and proceed with acquisition of land and shifting of in-
frastructure public services to facilitate project implementation.
A substantial portion of the work executed pertains to foreign aid
projects. Total staff in this division is about 118.
(h) Construction and Maintenance Management Division. This office is
responsible for the routine and periodic maintenance works of the
road network. Road maintenance contractors under the direction of
the Executive Engineers are responsible for carrying out the work.
From January 1987, the predominant maintenance and improvement works
were subcontracted to the Road Construction and Development Company.
There are nine Provincial Directors--one for each province--who are
assisted by about 170 engineers. The total number of staff in this
division is about 720 staff plus 617 staff in the mechanical
workshops.   In addition, a Project Coordinator (with supporting
staff) is also assigned to this division on an interim basis as part
of the road rehabilitation component included in the Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project, IDA Credit 1883-CE. The
Road Construction and Development Company is attached to this
division for organizational purposes.
Proiect Director's Office.   The functions of this office are
attached to the Construction and Maintenance Division. It includes
42 staff located at Kandy to coordinate the Victoria and Kotmale
projects, as well as Colombo-Kandy Road and Gatambe-Kandy bypass.
(i) Proarammin; Division. The staff positions for this division are
included RDA; however, the staff and work performed is accomplished
at the level of State Secretary of Highways. The division employs
six staff--a Director and Assistant Director of Programming, one
engineer, and three support staff. Its functions are to prepare
budgetary plans and monitor progress of RDA activitLes, and progress
and financial reporting to the Ministries of Planning and Policy
Implementation and Finance.



-30-                          AMM_
Pags 4 of '
7.         Tho Table on page 32 outlines the various RDA offices and the number
of staff asdigned to each. The organization of RDA ia shown as Chart 1 of the
Staff Appraisal lport. As of December 1989, RDA staff totaled aproxiuately
2,708; howmwsr, this nuS r Is expected to be decreased to about 1,916 when the
Provincial Cosuclls assim full responsibilitity for upkeep of the roads and
bridges delegpted to the.



-31-
Amnex 
Page 5 of 6
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
ghwayib     and Axide N=tork
Roads
Province          City         Paved   Unpaved    Total        Bridges
-----------kms------_
Western           Colombo            5,551.01  7,516.33  13,067.23   1,022
Caipaha
Kalutara
Central           Kandy             4,928.68  7,245.06  12,173.74      757
Matale
Nuwara Eliya
Southern          Galle             3,134.13  5,609.61   8,743.74      557
Matara
Hambantota
Northeastern      Jaffna            5,735.52 11,959.52  17,695.04   1,055
Mannar
Vavuniya
Mullaitivu
Batticaloa
Amparai
Trincomalee
Northwestern      Kuruunegala       2,973.67 12,151.13  15,124.80      443
Puttalam
North Central     Anuradhapura      2,271.63  9,604.47  11,876.10      337
Polonnaruva
WVA               Badulla           3,153.60  4,223.06   7,376.66      341
Monoragala
Sabaragamuwa      Ratnapura         3,004.33  5,291.81   8,296.11      800
Kegalle
Sub-total                    30,752.57 63,600.85  94,353.42   5,262
Kahaweli Authority, and
Land Commissioner Department                            3,022.87*
Total                                                   97,376.29   5,262
* (Statistics on paved or unpaved is unavailable)



-32-
Page 6 of 6
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Total RDA Staff
(February 1990)
Professional      Support
Office                      Staff           Staff    Total
Office of the Chairman       )
Office of the General Manager)       7             52        59
Administration Division       )
Programming Division                 3              3         6
Finance Division                    10             50        60
Internal Audit Division              3             13        16
Training Division                   56              4        60
Project Director's Office           20             22        42
Research and Development            21            152       173
Division
Construction Management and         28             17        45
Contracts Division
Engineering Services Division       91             27       118
Construction and Maintenance
Management Division              310            410       720
Mechanical Workshops                 19           598       617
Total Staff                        568          1,348     1,916



-33-
nffs^ 2
Page 1 of 6
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Detailed DescriutMon of grks
1.   The project in its final form includes the following roads, totalling 417.2
km (see Table 3.1):
(a)   The A2 road, Colombo to Hambantota (225 km), divided into the
following subsections:
- Noratuwa to Galle                           101.0 km
- Galle to Matara                              44.0 km
- Matara to Dickwella                          21.0 km
Dickwella to Hambantota                      59.0 km
(b)   Three road sections (51.5 km), which branch off the A2 and lead
inland from the coast in the Southern Province . These are:
- Hatara to Akuressa                           21.0 km
- Iatara to Hakmana                            24.0 km
- Tangalla to Belliatta                         6.5 km
(c)   A number of road sections (135 km) in the Western Province, situated
in the eastern and north-eastern suburbs of Colombo, namely:
- Kaduwela to Hanwella                         12.5 km
- Toppu-Dankotuwa-Giriulla                     32.0 km
- Peltyagoda to Kadawatha                       8.0 km
- Dehiwela to Haharagama                        7.6 km
- Navinna to Mirihana                           3.4 km
- Hunupitiya to Hendala                         4.0 km
- Katubedda to Piliyandala                      4.7 km
- Wattala to Nahara                             7.2 km
- Katunayake to Nittambuwa                     26.0 km
- Biyanwila to Ganemulla                        3.0 km
- Seeduwa to Udugampola                        12.0 km
- Isurupaya to Pannipitiya                      6.0 km
(d)   Three short road sections (5.7 km) leading from the A3 road to
Negombo town. These are:
- Negombo to Giriulla                           1.6 km
- Chillaw Roaa, Negombo                         1.3 km
- St. Joseph Street, Negombo                    2.8 km



-34-
AhnMZ
Page 2 of 6
2.    The present condition of all the above roads has many things in comon:
(a)   the pavements are approaching failure, or have already failed, and
roughness measurements (in 1988/89) are generally of the order of
3500 to 6000 mm/km;
(b)   pavement edges have deteriorated or failed, resulting in progressive
roadway narrowing;
(c)   verges are deformed, in many cases to quite an unacceptable extent,
causing pavement drainage problems, and they are not serving their
intended purpose as usable road margins;
(d)   in almost all cases, pavement widths are inadequate and, with the
existing right-of-way restrictions, it is likely that many will
continue to be inadequate, even after rehabilitation;
(e)   road-side drains have, in many instances, disappeared or have been
reduced in section to an ineffective size. Through urban areas they
are blocked and damaged;
(f)   many cross-drainage structures are blocked or damaged and it is very
difficult, at this stage, to predict their structural soundness;
(g)   the effective  road platform  (pavement plus vezges)  width  is
generally reduced by the presence of overhead line poles, which, in
many cases, are adjacent to the road pavements; and
(h)   the almost complete lack of bus-stop lay-bys, emergency parking
areas and pedestrian/bicycle paths is the general rule, leading to
confusion and obstruction of the traffic on the road pavement,
particularly in urban areas.
3.   More particular comments on the present condition of the project roads are:
(a)   over a significant proportion of the Dickwella to Hambantota section
of the A2, the pavement has failed structurally, causing fairly deep
deformations of a wave-like pattern. These areas need replacing;
(b) the Toppu to Giriulla and Katunayake to Nittambuwa sections,
although having some right-of-way restrictions, can generally be
rehabilitated to acceptable pavement and shoulder widths;
(c)   the Matara to Hakmana road, in several quite extensive sections
(including  those  recently  reconstructed),   will  require  a
considerable amount of embankment widening and pavement raising
through rice fields (flood areas);



-35-
£flI
Patg 3 of 6
(d)   many sections of the A2 from  Colosbo to Hambantota, and in
particular from Galle onwards, are quite close to the se and the
rehabilitation design will have to take account of the existing or
planned coast protection works; and
(e)   on many of the road sections in the Western Province and Negov6o
township, as well as on the Noratuwa to Kalutara section of the A2,
existing traffic is likely to cause serious problems to the
rohabilitation operations.   The Road Development Authority is
planning to design a temporary traffic control sche.m as part of the
temporary works, including lane divisions, barriers and traffic
lights, and to make it part of the Contract Drawins.   The
cooperation of the Traffic Police sbould also be requested;
4.   In order to take account of the above conditions and to keep costa within
reasonable bounds, RDA has laid down the following design prameters;
(a)  Deian Sged
Rural Areas       65-70 kph
Suburban Areas    50 kph
Urban Areas       30 kph
Lower design speeds have been adopted where:
Mi)      it is not possible to provide the minimue transitional
length required;
(ii)     excessive raising of the outer edge result  from using
the correct design speed;
(iii)      access problems are created; or
(iV)      there is inadequate width of right-of-way to provide
proper embankment geometry.
(b)   Sunerelevation and Crossfalls
No superelevation is to be provided on curves in the following
locations:
(i)     where there are bridges; or
(ii)      in built-up areas, where provision of superelevation
would create access problem  to adjolinng buLldlgs.
Otherwise,  aximun superelevation is to be 5S. If exstint  crossfall is
greater than 5%, the new crossfall is to be the sam   s that existing, up
to a maximum of 6%.



-36-
Annex -2
Page 4 of 6
Cambers are to be varied between 2%-4% to minimize quantities of
regulating course. Shoulder crossfalls are to be 5%, except they shall be
3% at upper edge of superelevation.
(c)   Shoulders are to be raised to new level of pavement and shaped to correct
crossfall.
For roads paved with Regulating Course and Asphalt Wearing Course
(Rehabilitation level R+A), shoulders are to be lm wide, except where
there are right-of-way restrictions, where widths may be reduced to a
minimum of 0.6m.
For roads paved with Regulating Course only (Rehabilitation level R),
shoulders are to be 0.6m wide generally.
In towns, some roads may already be paved from one side to the other
between side drains, with no separate shoulder, in which case
rehabilitation will be carried out over the entire width. These areas
will be identified in advance and designated as such in the drawings and
cross-sections before tendering.
(d)   Pavement Re air/RehabilLtation. The rehabilitation levels for the project
are to be:
Roads surfaced with Reg-ulating Course only (Rehabilitation level R)
Mi)      Pavement  edges  to be  repaired,  where  necessary,  using
aggregate base material compacted into a layer minimum 200mm
thick and 400mm wide, top of layer to be level with top of
existing pavement;
(ii)      Existing pavement to be widened where necessary to make
finished pavement conform with minimum width requirements for
class of road using method as in i. above;
(iii)      Potholes to be repaired by cutting back to sound material,
squaring off edges and filling with bituminous material;
(iv)      Where total pavement failure has taken place, it will be
removed and reconstructed using base material as specified;
these areas will be identified in advance and designated in
drawings and cross-sections before tendering;
(v)      Bituminous regulating course of minimum thickness 30mm is to
be laid over entire pavement surface and finished to best
possible standard to serve as wearing course; this may have to
be laid in several layers to correct crossfalls and
superelevation within limits defined above;



-37-
Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
Roads surfaced with Regulating Course and Asphalt Wearing Course
(Rehabilitation level R+A)
(M)      All as in (i) above plus surfacing entire rehabilitated
surface with asphalt wearing course 40mm thick.
Bridge Rehabilitation/Reconstruction
5.    The project includes the repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction of the
following bridges (see Table 3.2 for details):
(a)   On the A2 road from Colombo-Galle-Hambantota-Wellawaya:
Nos. 45/5, 51/1, 54/4, 56/2, 92/2, 94/1, 112/1, 116/3, 119/1, 121/3,
144/2, 159/2 and 163/3.
(b)   On the Katunayake to Nittambuwa road:  Nos. 6/1, 11/1, 13/1 and 1/1.
(c)   On the Matara to Hakmana road:  Nos. 8/8, 12/6 and 13/1.
(d)   On the Hunupitiya to Hendala road:  No. 2/2.
(e)   On the Matara to Akuressa road:  No. 8/5.
(f)   On the Wattala to Mahara road:  No. 42/2.
(g)   On the Kirindiwita to Ganemulla road:  No. 1/3.
6.    The existing bridges in the project are a mixture of steel truss, steel
beam and reinforced or prestressed concrete beam construction.   Structural
members and deck slabs are generally severely corroded, damaged or overloaded.
Foundations are concrete or timber piles, concrete caissons or spread footings.
7.    The rehabilitation method for each bridge will be determined from the
findings of the detailed site investigation and engineering survey. Depending
on the location of the bridge and other existing factors, the following methods
of reconstruction or rehabilitation will be adopted:
Reconstruction
(a)   Inadequately strong foundations for abutments and piers will be
demolished and replaced by new concrte piles, caissons or spread
footings. New abutments will generally be immediately behind, and
new piers will be located away from the existing structures.
(b)   Abutment and pier substructures will be of mass concrete.
(c)   Beams will be standard or custom-made prestressed concrete.
(d)   Decks will be of reinforced concrete.



-38-
Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
(e)   Where possible, construction will be carried out half the width at
a time. Traffic will usa the old bridge while half the new bridge
is constructed alongside, and will then use the new bridge while the
old is demolished and the other half of the new bridge is completed.
Where this method is not feasible, a temporary bypass or alternative
crossing will be provided.
videning
(a)   Additional  foundations  for both  abutments  and piers will be
constructed beside the existing foundations which will have been
proved through detailed investigation to be still in good condition.
These new foundations will generally be of the same type as the
existing. Where existing foundations, piers or abutments are to be
re-used, detailed investigations will be carried out to verify and
reconfirm the results of previous inspections and a report
guaranteeing the structural integrity of the structural components
being re-used will be issued by RDA before contractors are invited
to tender for such contracts.
(b)   New substructures, beams and decks will generally be of the same
type of construction as above.
Redecking
(a)   This will either be carried out as a separate operation or in
conjunction with widening. Existing decks, including supporting
beams, will be removed and replaced with prestressed concrete beams
and reinforced concrete decks. There will be no modifications to
foundations  or  substructures.    The  guaranteeing  of  existing
foundations and substructures will also apply in this case, as
above.
Environmental Precautions
8.    Provisions will be incorporated into the contract documents to ensure
adequate environmen-al safeguards in respect of:
(a)   rehabilitating borrow pits, quarries and spoil tips, where these are
opened specifically for this project;
(b)   storage areas, especially those for diesel fuel and bitumen;
(c) sanitary arrangements in offices, yards and on site;
(d)   avoiding pollution of watercourses and groundwater; and
(e)   disposal of pavement and other material removed during construction.



-39-
Annsx 3
Page 1 of 5
SRI LA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Sggyt on Road User Charoes
Terms of Reference
A. Introduction
1.        The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) intends to undertake a road user
charge study to establish the appropriateness of: (i) the charges by way of
taxation, duties, etc., levied on different classes of road vehicles; and (ii)
the relationship between such charges and the costs of developing and maintaining
the road system to a suitable degree.
B. Objectives
2.        The main objective of the study is to review the taxes paid by road
users of the inter-urban network to determine whether the taxation system could
better reconcile the multiple aims of economic efficiency, equity, revenue
generation, energy conservation, and administrative simplicity in revenue
collection. In this connectSon the study should ensure that the forms in which
taxes are specified and the administrative mechanisms by which they are collected
do not materially misdirect the decisions of transport users and government
agencies in the allocation of scarce resources.
RevLew of the Hijbay System
3.        The consultant should collect information on the national and major
state highway systems, including, but not restricted to: (i) current design
standards for roads and bridges; (ii) inventory by homogeneous sections
specifying present geometric standards, serviceability indices, weight and size
restrictions on bridges and roads; (iii) research studies conducted in the
country concerning road behavior under different conditions of terrain, axle
loads, traffic, climate, soils, etc.; and (iv) Government's plans for road
construction and maintenance for the next 5 years.
Motor Vehicle Population
4.        A major problem in basic data is the lack of an accurate current
estimate of the active vehicle fleet using the highway system. Because of delays
or gaps in forwarding information on the number of annual vehicle licenses, the
Department of Registration of Motor Vehicles (DMRV) does not have a comprehensive
and current data base on this critical variable. Various estimates are made on
the number of vehicles on the vehicle register, the revenue licenses issued each



-40-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
year, deregistered vehicles, uninsured cars, the breakdown by vehicle type, and
the like. There is an urgent need to streamline a system of motor vehicle data
collection, compilation, storage and retrieval to obtain accurate information on
vehicle population and to estimate road user revenues and cost allocat.ons.
Road Traffic Demands
5.        A projection should be made of the likely development over the next
15 years of road traffic in Sri Lanka, identifying freight and passenger volumes,
type of commodities transported, spatial distribution of traffic, likely
utilization of containers, etc.
6.        Projections  should be  made  on  the basis  of  several plausible
assumptions to be identified by the study and in consultation with the Transport
Studies and Planning Center (TSPC) and the planning units in the Government of
Sri Lanka.
Economic Evaluation of Different Vehicle Alternatives
7.        The consultant should conduct an economic evaluation of alternative
vehicle designs with the aim of permitting modern vehicles to operate in Sri
Lanka. For example, a vast body of experience collected world-wide indicates
that the utilization of large vehicles reduces considerably the cosc per ton-km
of transporting goods and passengers, but this economic saving should be weighted
against the incremental capital and maintenance cost of the larger vehicles and
the improvements to roads which their use could impose on the economy as a whole.
Also, improvements in fuel efficiency might entail a significant initial capital
cost which should be compared with future savings in fuel consumption. The
suggested criterion to evaluate different proposals is the minimization of the
present value of the total transport costs, at the opportunity cost of capital
which in Sri Lanka could be assumed at 10%.  The consultant should evaluate
alternatives under a reasonable number of different operating conditions
(terrain, geometric standards, congestion, traffic mix, commodity transported,
etc.).
!inal Recommendations
8.        The consultant should make the final recommendations on the  optimum
vehicle fleet mix based on economic, engineering, marketing, availability of
credit, legal, administrative and managerial criteria. It should be recognized
that a restructuring of the vehicle fleet and the possible related improvements
in the highway network may take considerable time to materialize, and both should
be done concurrently to permit full utilization of the advantages of modern
units.   The consultant should prepare a detailed implementation program
specifying phases and intermediate targets for its development. For example, the
first phase of the implementation program may be limited to a major corridor of
the country where enough experience could be collected and the results applied
to the rest of the country during the second phase.



-41-
Areaz 3
Page 3 of 5
C. Seogg of VotX
9.        With the aims of economic efficiency in view the consultants shall,
for the current situation:
(a) estimate the costs attributable to road use;
(b) allocate these costs to the principal categories of vehicles;
(c) estimate the total taxes paid by each vehicle category and compare
them to the corresponding road use costs; and
(d) propose changes in the forms of taxation that would enhance the
efficiency of the transportation system.
10.       To clarify the scope of the study, it should be stated that the
Government wishes to draw a distinction between road use charges and general tax
revenues. Road use charges 11 are to be construed as payments to the Government
related as closely as possible to the sum of: (a) costs incurred by the
Government in providing and maintaining the road infrastructure and (b) the costs
that each user imposes on other road users by accelerated road damage and
congestion. All taxes not designed as road use charges are presumed to be for
general revenue purposes. They may, like Business Turnover Tax (BTT), be levied
on all productive activities with the aim of raising revenues while distorting
productive efficiency as little as possible; or they may be levied on luxury
consumption items with the aim of redistributing income. Many of the present
taxes are not clearly identified with one or other of these objectives, so that
it is difficult to judge their effectiveness and the consultant will have to
decide in which category such taxes are to be classified.
Estimation gf Costs Attributable to Road Use
11.       Principles of economic efficiency require that the road use costs to
be charged to users include at least all the identifiable variable costs (short-
run marginal costs).  These are normally defined as the variable portion of
routine and periodic road maintenance, and congestlon costs, occasioned by
trafficking.
12.       As for the costs of providing future capacity (road strengthening,
geometric improvements, and new construction), it is considered a matter of
government policy whether part or all of such costs should be recovered from
present road users. Policy on this question of cost-recovery will be shaped by
concern to provide relative prices to transport users which reflect relative
costs of the different modes of transport (where costs are defined on a
comparable basis). To help the Government make better-informed decisions on this
2/   The term Oroad use charges" is used here instead of the more commonly found
term "road user charges" to avoid any ambiguity in their definition.



-42-
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
subject, the consultant should conduct sensitivity analyses that show the impact
of alternative cost recovery policies on the level of user charges and relative
prices of different modes of transport.
13.       A similar analysis should be conducted to show the effect on road use
charges on an optimal level of road maintenance, as distinct from the present
level of expenditures.
Allocation of Costs to Vehicle Categories
14.       The consultant should allocate the road u e costs defined above to the
different vehicle categories, in accordance with .he criterion of causality.21
In so doing, attention should be paid to the ax! configuration of truck types
currently used in Sri Lanka and alternative conLigurations to which Sri Lanka
could switch in the future.
Comnarison of Road Use Costs and Taxes Paid
15.       By comparing the road use costs imposed on the system and the total
taxes paid by each category of vehicle, the consultants should identify which
categories are under-charged and, for the remainder, what is the breakdown
between road use charges and general tax revenues.
Pro2osed Chantes In Forms of Taxation
16.       It is possible that taxes paid by large trucks do not fully cover the
cost of road damage that they incur.   If the analysis confirms this, the
consultant should propose appropriate taxes to rectify the situation, with
particular attention to encouraging axle configurations which minimize total
transport costs. Also, the consultant should propose appropriate taxes for the
vehicle types travelling over the network and in some cases, those taxes could
be used as incentives (or disincentives) for operators to use certain vehicle
types. The consultant will make recommendations on the total amount of taxes to
be paid by each vehicle type, which is a matter to be decided later by the
Government of Sri Lanka.
17.       Where the analysis reveals that efforts by road users to avoid or
reduce taxes in their present form are substantially reducing the efficiency of
transportation, appropriate changes should be proposed. Each should be supported
by an assessment of 'heir foreseeable impact on the efficiency of the
transportation system and on the level of tax revenues paid.
18.       Finally under this heading, the consultant should propose any changes
2/ In this connection, past research in the United States, Brazil and
elsewhere on road deterioration and the respective effects of traffic,
climate and aging will be reviewed.



-43-
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
they believe will significantly reduce the administrative cost of collecting road
user taxes without prejudice to economic efficiency or the level of revenues.
Recommendations for Imoroved Data on Motorization
19.       After review of the existing data and the system of data collection
on vehicle population, the consultant will recommend improved procedures to
compile accurate data on vehicle population. Their recommendations will include,
inter alia, means to strengthen the functions of DMRV, field offices and other
relevant agencies involved in the compilation of motor vehicle data.
Additionally, the consultant will identify means to enforce deregistration of
vehicles, and prepare a strategy of implementing the recommended scheme under
this heading.
Sunervision of Studs by Government
20.       The study will be conducted under the supervision of TSPC in
association with several government agencies concerned with highways, motor
vehicles and policies on pricing.
Data. Local Services and Facilities to be Provided by the Government
21.       The Government shall provide the consultant entrusted with the study
with all available data on:
(a) present pricing and transport regulations and such changes to these
as are currently being contemplated by the Government;
(b) transport costs and revenues, including national and local taxes;
(c) the operations and accounting systems of the Government agencies and
local  authorities  responsible  for  transport  maintenance  and
administration;
(d) previous studies sponsored by the Government on transportation and on
development that will have a bearing on the proposed study; and
(e) such data on fiscal and financial policy which would materially assist
the study.



-44-
Annex4
Page 1 of 3
SRI LRAM
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Domestic Contracting rndustry Study in the Road Subsector
Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.        During the current Five-Year Plan, a considerable number of road and
bridge rehabilitation projects will be executed through government financing/or
foreign assistance. Successful implementation of these projects will largely
depend on the capabilities of the construction firms engaged.
2.        With the general objective of developing a more efficient domestic
contracting industry in the road subsector, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
requested IDA's assistance in undertaking a study on the development of the
domestic road contracting industry. GOSL therefore intends to engage consultants
to investigate, examine and highlight the constraints the domestic road
construction industry has been facing and to suggest measures for its development
and how best to introduce international practices.
3.        The short-term objectives of the study focus on the institutional
environment and include-
(a)  establishment of a permanent information system for collecting road
construction industry statistics on a routine basis, particularly
aimed at providing data for indexing public sector construction
contracts and relating them to construction costs (inputs/outputs);
(b)  establishment of a consolidated registry of road and bridge works
contractors; and
(c)  recommend areas where GOSL would need to draft new legislation to
introduce modern and equitable procurement and contracting procedures.
4.        The medium-term objectives of the study focus on improving the
performance of construction enterprises and include:
(a) identification of the major constraints which adversely affect
efficient operation of road construction enterprises; and
(b) development of specific action plans aimed at resolving the key
constraints identified in (a) above.



-45-
4
Page 2 of 3
Scope of Consultants& Services
5.        The consultants will carry out the following tasks:
(a) examine and evaluate in general terms the existing domestic road civil
engineering contractors in Sri Lanka, their capital investments,
organizational set-up, personnel, construction methods, equipment,
previous experience, quality as well as volume of their previous
construction work, and assess the business environment in which they
work;
(b) assess in general terms the national demand for road works and road
associated structures for the next five years in particular, and for
the period of the proposed plan in general, and highlight the
requirements for a reasonable development of the road construction
industry;
(c) identify the office or committee XI to coordinate actions in all
matters related to, and for maintaining a dialogue with the industry,
with the aim of defining its responsibilities and the resources
required to discharge them, and to draft a plan for its
implementation, including any necessary enabling legislation;
(d) prepare a framework for a road contracting industry information system
and related data bases which would centralize collection, analysis and
publication of statistics, particularly in respect of cost indices to
be used in price adjustment, and to propose an action plan for its
establishment;
(e) suggest ways and means for establishing in the RDA a consolidated
registry of contractors and recommend guidelines for membership which
should depend on, inter alia, experience, reliability, permanent
suitable qualified professional staff and financial strength;
(f) analyze the institutional difficulties and constraints which affect
the industry and inhibit it from develoring; and
(g) suggest remedial measures and specify the action to be taken by GOSL
in particular to:
(i) identify the minimum equipment needed by a contractor in a
specified activity, taking into consideration those operations
where labor-intensive methods are technically sound and cost
effective with the appropriate blend of equipment;
(ii) assess the financial needs of the companies such as:
f  One option may be to set up a small cell supervised by an Inter-Ministerial
Committee.



-46-
Annex 4
Pag. 3 of 3
a. minimus working capitol;
b. advance payment;
c. bonds and bank guarantees; and
d. foreign currency to cover purchase of equipment
and spare parts:
(iii) analyze the existing facilities for hiring out equipment and in
particular the forthcoming equipment leasing operations in the
Ministry of Highways.
(h) prepare a draft recommendation of measures which will help GOSL extend
to the industry incentives in respect of duty and taxation such as
those applied to other industrial activities;
(i) make recommendations on any improvements needed to procurement and
contracting procedures, standard tender documents and general
conditions of contract with the objective of limiting unnecessary
contractual risks, eliminating Lipediments to the strengthening of the
industry, stimulating its growth and elevating its competence and
professional standing.
(j) propose a detailed action plan for improving the efficiency of road
construction enterprises including technical assistance to be provided
to contractors, and draft terms of reference for the consultants and
for the GOSL personnel who will supervise the implementation of the
action plan.



-47-
hnnns S
Page 1 of 4
TEIRD ROADS PROJECT
Project Manaeement and Monitorlna Unit Advis=
Terms of Reference
BacK=nd
1.        Compared to other countries of South Asia, Sri 'anka has a relatively
extensive and well-developed road network, which evolved l.argely to serve the
needs of plantations for bringing their produce to the ports. Presently Sri
Lanka's overall road network totals some 97,000 km, of which 33,000 km are paved
and the balance are gravel or earth roads.
2.        Most roads were built many years  ago and have since had  few
improvements, while roadside development has encroached into the original right
of way over long sections. A number of bridges are structurally deficient as
well as too narrow for traffic and there are lengths of roads throughout the
country where pavement failure is imminent.
3.        Due to a combination of circumstances, including unforseen traffic
growth, both in volume and loading, some inadequate designs, and insufficient
budget over the past years, the condition of the national trunk routes has
deteriorated. Much of the network now needs a major rehabilitation effort to
restore it to a level at which its road sections can be maintained by normal
routine maintenance procedures.
4.        Recognizing this need the Government of Sri Lanka  (GOSLj  with
assistance from the International Development Association (IDA) and the Economic
Development Cooperation Fund (EDCF) of Korea has identified, and will be
implementing a project for the rehabilitation of selected road sections and their
associated structures on the national trtuik routes in the western and southern
provinces of Sri Lanka.  The project will executed by the Road Development
Authority (RDA), Ministry of Highways, under the direction of the Director,
Contracts Management (CM).
5.        The project consists of the following components:
(a) maintenance and rehabilitation of 420 km of Class A & B trunk roads
to be performed under 5 contracts, tendered on an international basis;
(b) repair, rehabilitation or (and) reconstruction of 24 bridges, all
located on dhe selected road sections to be performed by local and/or
foreign contractors;



-48-
A5
Page 2 of 4
(c) urgent repairs, rehabilitation and limited new construction of
roadways, pavements, drains, retaining walls and cross-drainage
structures damaged by floods during 1989 to be performed mainly on a
force account basis;
(d) procurement of vehicles, microcomputers, miscellaneous office
equipment, and supplies to enable the Contracts Management Division
(CMD) of RDA to monitor and control contracts more effectively;
(e) consultancy services for design and supervision;
(f) technical assistance to the CMD; and
(g) for three special studies, covering the domestic road contracting
industry, standards for materials and designs for corstruction and for
road user charges.
Ob1ectiye
6.        The Government of Sri Lanka intends to engage a Project Management
Advisor (experienced in project and contract management including pavement
designs) with the objective of ensuring that:
(a)  all components of the project are carried out in accore 'ce with the
agreements entered into between the Government and IDA and between the
Government and the EDCF of Korea;
(b) all civil works and studies are carried out in compliance with the
designs and documents agreed between the Government and the donors;
and
(c) two counterpart senior engineers from RDA are provided with adequate
on-the-job training in methods of project and contract management.
Scope of Services
7.        The Advisor will undertake the monitoring and coordination of all
project related activities under the direction of the Director CMD to ensure that
all activities are implemented in a timely and cost-effective manner.
8.        The Advisor will set up, with the assistance of the two counterpart
engineers from RDA, suitable project monitoring, control and coordination systems
and procedures which would enable the Director CMD and, through him, RDA's
maragement to expedite decisions and actions to speed up project implementation.
Specifically decisions and the Advisor will be required to:
(a) compile, such information as is necessary for RDA to follow-up work
programmes and check that their execution is within the established
time schedules and design and cost parameters;



-49-
Anmex S
Page 3 of 4
(b) review Consultants' work proposals, designs, drawings, tender and
contract documents etc., advise on modifications and recommend follow
up actions and approvals;
(c)  review the necessary documents for variations to the works and
recommend appropriate action by RDA;
(d) review in consultation with the consultants supervising the works,
design   modifications   considered   necessary,   monitor   their
implementation and performance and report to RDA on their cost and
time effectiveness;
(e) set up and maintain a project data and information storage and
retrieval system to record all relevant communications between parties
to a contract, actions needed by other agencies, all quality and cost
details and variations to the works as they occur;
(f) set up and maintain "as built' drawings, documents and cost data
storage and retrieval filing system;
(g)  attend routine projecc related meetings between all parties concerned,
maintain records and minutes and follow up on actions requiring
immediate attention by RDA;
(h) compile, review and evaluate monthly project reports and prepare the
necessary quarterly progress reports (based on Consultant's monthly
progress reports) for IDA and other lending agencies in a timely
manner which shall include intex alia details of physical and
financial status of each contract, area(s) of potential problems or
delays and recommend actions and solutions;
(i) carry out regular inspection oi work sites and advise the Director CMD
on action deemed necessary;
(j)  ensure maintenrnce of project accounts and timely preparation of
interim evaluation and financial cost information on all ongoing
contracts;
(k)  regularly cdack project accounts to ensure appropriate actions are
taken in a timely manner and in conformity with requirements of IDA
and other lending agencies;
(1)  plan a  programme yearly project implementation schedules and budgets
for carrying out all project related works, designs, studies, etc.;
(m) advise RDA on setting priorities of activities to be undertaken during
each year of project implementation;



-50-
^Aesz 5
Page 4 of 4
(n) advise and assist RDA on selection of consultants in obtaining the
approval of their terms of reference and assisting in negotiation/
administration of their contracts;
(o) advise RDA on matters relating to designs including pavement designs
and implementation options during the execution of works;
(p) assist RDA regarding invitation of bids for civil works (or requests
for proposals from consultants)and awarding of contracts to ensure
that all actions are in accordance with guidelines of IDA and other
lending agencies;
(q) visit work sites to monitor and evaluate project progress and make the
necessary recommendations to RDA to ensure that all necessary actions
are taken in a timely manner and that works are executed on schedule
and established performance standards are met;
(r) develop, install, test and implement a computer-based project
monitoring and budgetary control system to enable early detection of
potential problems in the execution of contracts, for immediate
corrective action to be taken; and
(s) ensure the timely preparation of completion reports on each completed
major project activity and/or component.
9.        Training of the RDA counterpart staff is a component of the Advisor's
duties considered to be equally as important as the above mentioned tasks. In
particular the advisor will undertake training of the staff assigrad by RDA
office in the procedures involved in planning, monitoring, controlling and
carrying out high level supervision of contract works.
10.       The Advisor will include in his proposal a detailed plan of his
approach to this aspect of his duties and should submit a full listing of
equipment, including appropriate computer software which he considers will be
required to successfully ach' q--r the objective of transferring the necessary
skills and "state of the art     .mology to his RDA counterpart staff.



-51-
1tge 1 of 7
THIR ROAD  HOE
Terms of Refrenee
hakS&Xgd
1.        Compared to other countries of South Asia, Sri Lanka has a relatively
extensive and well-developed road network, which evolved largely to serve the
needs of plantations to bring their produce to the ports. Presently Sri Lanka's
overall road network totals some 97,000 ko, including some 33,000 km of paved
roads and the balance are gravel or earth roads.
2.        Most roads were built many years ago and have since had few
:mprovements, while roadside development has encroached into the original right
of way over long sections. A number of bridges are structurally deficient as
well as too narrow for traffic and there are lengths of roads throughout the
country where pavement failure is imminent.
3.        Due to a combination of circumstances, including unforseen traffic
growth, both in volume and loading, some inadequate designs, and insufficient
budget over the past years, the condition of the national trunk routes has
deteriorated. Much of the network now needs a major rehabilitation effort to
restore it to a level at which it can be maintained by normal routine maintenance
procedures.
4.        Recognizing this need the Government of Sri Lanka  (GOSL) with
assistance from the International Development Association (IDA) and the Iconomic
Development Cooperation Fund (EDCF) of Korea will be implementing a project for
the rehabilitation of 420 km (ineluding bridges culverts etc) of the national
trunk routes in the Western and Southern Provinces of the country. The project
will be executed by the Road Development Authority (RDA), Ministry of Highways.
5.        The project components for whieh supervision consultancy services are
required consist of the following components.
(a)  Rehabilitation of 320 km of roads in four contract packages. (Note
that Contract-l for 100 km approximately is being financed by EDCF and
is excluded from the scope of these TOR.) See Appendlx I for details.
(b) Development of skills within the Road Development Authority,
partieularly in the supervision of civil works contracts.



-52-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
Obiectives
6.        The Government  of Sri Lanka intends to engage consultants with the
objective of ensuring that the civil works of the project are carried out   in
accordance with the requirements of the various contracts and in compliance with
the designs and documents for the works and that the RDA personnel are provided
with training in methods of contract management and supervision.
Scope of Services
7.        The  Consultant,  acting  as  the  Engineer's  Representative,  will
undertake the supervision of the project contracts packages under the direction
of the Road Development Authority. The Director of Construction Management and
Contracts Division (CM&C) will be appointed as the Engineer for the Contracts.
8.        It is expected that the first road rehabilitation contract in the
consultancy scope (Contract-2) will be awarded in the second quarter of 1991 and
other contracts will be awarded at later dates. The period of performance of the
road rehabilitation contracts will be between 36 and 40 months. Prequalification
of contractors under International Competitive bidding conditions has commenced.
International and Sri Lankan contractors who are eligible and have prequalified
under IDA procurement guidelines will be invited to participate in bidding for
Contract No. 2.  Further prequalification may be undertaken to select suitable
bidders for Contracts 3, 4 and 5.
9.        The Consultant will set up a suitable site supervision organization
to ensure that the works under each contract are completed in accordance with the
documents. Specifically, the Consultant will be required to:
(a) provide such information as is necessary for the Contractor to set out
the works and check that this setting out is correct;
(b) review the Contractors' work proposals, working drawings, etc. for the
Contract, advise modifications where necessary and approve the
proposals in consultation with the Engineer;
(c) review the Contractors' works program and, where necessary, request
revisions of these to account for the current status of the works;
(d) agree with the Contractor on systems of measurement for interim
certificates and carry out the necessary measurements, calculations
and certifications for such certificates;
(e) make recommendations to the engineer on the Contractor's claims for
additional payment, extensions of time and other matters, based on the
Consultant's interpretation of the Contract Documents, the relevant
site conditions and the Contractor's detail. submissions;
(f) prepare the necessary documents for any variations to the works,
negotiate these with the Contractor and submit the agreed Variation
Order to the Engineer for approval;



-53-
Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
(g)  through Resident Engineers, inspectors and other staff as may be
required, supervise the day to day operations of the Contractor to
ensure compliance with the contract;
(h)  main:ain detailed diaries of relevant events and activities;
(i)  operate  a site material  testing laboratory  facility  to ensure
compliance of materials and completed works with the Contract
Specifications. Carry out deflection analysis of the various stages
of the road pavement works to determine any modifications to the
pavement that are required and generally ensure that the final
pavement will meet the design criteria;
(j)  if required, determine in consultation with the Engineer the pavement
designs to be included in any test sections, monitor construction and
performance and report on the effectiveness of the trial pavements.
(k)  set up and maintain a correspondence  and document storage and
retrieval system to record all relevant communicatitns between the
parties to the contract, including that with the Engineer and
Engineer's Representative, all measurement and quality control details
and variations to the works as they occur;
(1)  maintain "as built" drawings and documents;
(m)  call and keep minutes of routine site meetings between the parties to
the contract;
(n)  prepare  monthly progress  reports  for each  contract  in  a form
acceptable to RDA and IDA. These reports will include, as a minimum,
details of the physical and financial status of each contract, details
of delays and particular problems with suggested solutions and the
budgetary effect of these;
(o)  carry out final inspections of the works and recommend the issue of
completion certificates;
(p)  monitor the works through the maintenance period and take appropriate
action;
(q)  check the Contractors' final accounts and certify them correct for
payment; and
(r)  prepare completion reports in a form acceptable to RDA and IDA.
10.       In setting up the management and cost accounting systems, it is
anticipated that the consultant will make appropriate use of microcomputer-based
methods compatible with RDA's facilities in the CM&C Division.



-54-
Anmes 6
Page 4 of 7
11.       If required, the consultant in addition to his site duties will
undertake the following tasks:
(a) review with RDA forthcoming contract packages in the light of
experience on ongoing works, in particular the outcome of the trial
pavement sections, and recommend necessary amendments and design
revisions;
(b) assist in the preparation of prequalification questionnaires and in
the prequalification and procurement process as necessary;
(c) participate in analysis of the prequalification submissions and
prepare a report summarizing the evaluation and nominating the
contractors who have been prequalified. In doing this, the consultant
will be required to undertake such additional investigations into the
capabilities of possible bidders as may be necessary;
(d) review jointly with RDA the Invitation to Bid and bid documents.
(e) assist in the analysis bids and participate in the bid evaluation and
recommendation of contract award processes; and
(f) supervise the contract works in the same manner as set out above.
12.       In preparing the proposal, the Consultant will divide the consultancy
scope into two parts. The first part will include all those activities described
above as applicable to Contract 2. The second part will add the additional
resources required to undertake the supervision of Contracts 3, 4 and 5. The
financial proposal will be prepared similarly.
13.       If the RDA decides to proceed with Contracts 3, 4 and 5 at the
scheduled time, then RDA may direct the Consultant to mobilize the additional
resources required for the supervision of these contracts. In the event that the
work in Contracts 3, 4 and 5 are deferred significantly or are canceled then the
scope of the consultancy services will be limited to that required for Contract
2 and for Items 11(a) through (e) above if applicable. The agreement between the
RDA and the Consultant will be drafted to reflect award of contracts at the
intervals shown in the implementation schedule. See Appendix II.
Time Schedule
14.       It is anticipated that a contract for the Consultancy will be awarded
in April 1991 and the Consultant will commence his assignment in May 1991.
Provided that Contracts 3, 4 and 5 works commence as presently scheduled, the
estimated termination date for the consultancy is the end of the completion of
Contract 5 which would be in 1998.



-55-
AMUe 6
Page 5 of 7
Assistance to be provided by RDA
15.       The RDA will undertake to:
(a) nominate personnel to act as technical assistants to the consultants;
these officers will be responsible for routine contact between the RDA
and the consultant and will be responsible for ensuring that the
services proceed in accordance with the consultancy contract and
conform to the requirements and policies of the RDA; and
(b) undertake to assist the consultant to obtain visas and other
privileges where applicable for his expatriate personnel.
16.       The RDA may also require that the Consultant include in his teams
engineers and technical staff from the RDA.  These individuals will not be
substitutes for the Consultant's own staff but will be responsible to the
Consultant as though they were such.
17.       Each construction contract includes the provision and maintenance, by
the contractor, of vehicles, laboratory and survey equipment, computers and
furnished office space. The RDA will provide these at no cost to the consultant
for the duration of his services. However, the consultant shall include in his
proposal a list of facilities and equipment he considers necessary to adequately
supervise the works and provide detailed costs for these. In the event that the
RDA is unable to provide the items mentioned above, or accepts that additional
or different equipment is required, then the consultant shall provide these on
a reimbursable basis. At the conclusion of the consultancy these items will be
handed over to RDA.
18.       Training of local personnel, both of the consultant and the RDA, is
a component of the consultancy and is considered to be equally as important as
the supervision of construction works.   In particular the Consultant will
undertake training of RDA's staff in the procedures involved in planning
designing and supervision of maintenance works carried out by contract. The
Consultant should make provision for training 5 personnel from RDA.
19.       The Consultant will include in his proposal a detailed plan of his
approach to this aspect of the consultancy, including a breakdown between formal
and site training and a full listing of the facilities and equipment which he
considers will be required to successfully achieve the objective of developing
these skills within the local staff organization.
20.       The Consultant will provide personnel for each component of the
consultancy who have a wide experience in theAr particular fields and who, in the
case of expatriate staff, have worked on similar projects preferably outside
their own home countries.
21.       Since the scope of the consultancy involves some techniques relatively
new to Sri Lanka, it is anticipated that expatriates will fill some if not all
the key senior positions. However, wherever possible, the Consultant should make
maximum use of available Sri Lankan nationals, by associating with a local
consultancy firm which has access to such staff.



-56-
Amx 6
Page 6 of 7
Terms of Reference for the SuMersiton Consultant
Details of Contract Packages
(a)  Cntact1                              Moratuwa to Galle - Length: 101 kIs
This contract is not included in the
consultancy scope and is included for
information and sake of completeness
only.
(b)  Contract 2                           Katunayake to Nittambuwa, Toppu to
Giriulla, Biyanwila to Ganemulla,
Seeduva to Udugampola and three
strees in Negombo.
Total Length: 84.3 km
(c)  Contract 3                           Calle to Matara
Matara to Akuressa
Matara to Hakmana
Total Length: 89.0 km
(d)  Contract 4                           Matara to Hambantota
Tangalle to Beliatta
Total Length: 86.5 km
(e)  Contract 5                           Roads in Colombo Area
Total Length: 56.4 km



-57-
Pags 7 of 7
AvDtII
Terms of Reforence for the 3erMv1sion Consultant
Schedule
(a)  Appointment of Consultants            April 1991
Commencement   of   Consultancy       May 1991
Services
(b)  Award of Contract 2                   June 1991
Construction Period                   September 1991 to March 1995
(c)  Award of Contract 3                   July 1992
Construction Period                   October 1992 to March 1996
(d)  Award of Contract 4                   July 1993
Construction Period                   October 1993 to December 1996
(e)  Award of Contract 5                   January 1993
Construction Period                   April 1993 to September 1996



Annex 7
-58-                                       Page 1 of 1
SRI LANK
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Estimnted Disbursemmnts
(US$ milIion)
Profile X
IDA Fiscal                         Quarterly       Cumulative      Cumulative   ------------------
Year       Quarter Ending   Disbursements    Disbursennts          X          Country   Sector
FY91    March 31, 1991                 0.0              0.0          0.0
June 30, 1991                  2.4              2.4          6.0          2.0      2.0
FY92    September 30, 1991             0.5              2.9          6.8
December 31, 1991              0.5             3.4           8.0          4.0      6.0
March 31, 1992                 0.6              4.0          9.4
June 30, 1992                  0.9              4.9         11.5          9.0     10.0
FY93    September 30, 1992             0.9              5.8         13.6
December 31, 1992              1.2              7.0         16.5         16.0     18.0
March 31, 1993                 1.4              8.4         19.8
June 30, 1993                  1.4              9.8         23.1         24.0     27.0
FY94    September 30. 1993             1.2             11.0         25.9
December 31, 1993              2.4             13.4         31.5         32.0     34.0
March 31, 1994                 1.7             15.1         35.5
June 30, 1994                  2.1             17.2         40.5         40.0     41.0
FY95    September 30, 1994             2.1             19.3         45.4
December 31, 1994              2.2            21.5          50.6         48.0     48.0
March 31, 1995                 2.3             23.8         56.0
June 30, 1995                  2.4             26.2         61.6         56.0     56.0
FY98    September 30, 1995             2.3             28.5         67.0
December 31, 1995              1.9            30.4          71.5         63.0     63.0
March 31, 1996                 2.1            32.5          76.5
June 30, 1996                  1.9            34.4          81.0         71.0     69.0
FY97    September 30, 1996             1.9             36.3         85.3
Decwber 31, 1996               1.3            37.6          88.5         78.0     76.0
March 31, 1997                 1.7            39.3          92.5
June 30, 1997                  1.1            40.4          95.0         86.0     86.0
FM98    September 30, 1997             1.0             41.4         97.5
December 31, 1997              0.5            41.9          98.5         94.0     96.0
Mrch 31, 1998                  0.6            42.5         100.0
June 30, 1998                  0.0            42.5         100.0        100.0    100.0



-59-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
SRI  AK
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Proiect Relporting Reauirements
1.         At the conclusion of each three-month period, the Road Development
Authority (RDA) will prepare a progress report covering the work done on each of
the components of the project to-date and detailing actual and anticipated
progress, actual and estimated costs for the work completed and disbursements
from the credit compared with those estimated in the appraisal report. The
report will highlight causes for delays, if any, with measures proposed to
overcome them, and it will anticipate any changes that appear to be necessary in
the project completion date, the credit closing date or the project costs. The
reports will also include the results of traffic counts and pavement and soils
surveys taken to confirm designs and design estimates and economic evaluation,
and will detail any changes in design, cost, estimates or economic evaluation
that result. Details will be given of contracts for works, goods and services
that have been awarded, invited or received during the reporting period, with
reasons for any changes that have been made in the project estimates on time
processing and contract implementation. Two copies of the quarterly report will
be sent to IDA through the Bank's office in Colombo within six weeks of the end
of each reporting period.
2.          Within six months of the completion of the project, RDA will submit
to the Association, a Project Completion Report on the execution and initial
operation of the project, its costs and the benefits derived or expected to be
derived from it, an assessment of the perZormance by consultants, contractors,
RDA and by the Association of their respective obligations and the accomplishment
of the purpose of the credit. Details of the contents and requirements of the
Project Completion Report will be discussed and agreed a year before the
completion of the project,



-60-
Annex 9
Page 1 of 30
SRI LN
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation--AssuMptions and Methodologv
A. Traffic Levels and Comiosition
1.          Traffic growth in the southern part of Sri Lanka where the project
area is located has been suppressed to some degree by the civil unrest in the
area, which was especially prevalent in 1987 and 1988. However, the situation
has improved considerably in the early months of 1990, with tourist traffic and
hotel occupancy in the project area progressing rapidly toward normal levels.
2.          Recent traffic classification counts have been carried out on each
of the project road sections by RDA. Of the 26 road sections, the most recent
counts on 13 sections were carried out in 1989, on 11 sections in 1988 and 2
sections in 1987. The classification counts were conducted for 12 hours on each
of 8 of the road sections and for 24 hours on the remaining 18 sections, to gain
an indication of traffic composition by vehicle type.   In each case the
classification  count  was  accompanied  by  a  seven-day  machine  count.
Classification and machine counts have also been carried out on most of the roads
in previous years.   The locations of the various counts,  their dates and
durations, and the resulting estimated traffic volumes by six vehicle types, are
shown in Table A4.1-1. The volumes shown as Average Daily Traffic (ADT) have
been adjustea for weekly variation on the basis of the machine counts, anI as
there is little monthly or seasonal variation, this in effect represents the
Average Annu41 Daily Traffic (AADT) and can be factored up by 365 to represent
annual volumes.
3.          One-day, 1--hour traffic classification counts were carried out by
Moratuwa University (MU) staff on two days in December 1989 at seven locations
on the project roads, as a check on the reliability of the RDA counts.
Additional classification counts were carried out by Transport Studies and
Planning Center (TSPC) staff at nearby locations as a cross-check on the MU
counts. The RDA count volumes were increased from the years of the counts to the
end of 1989 at a growth rate of 5% per year in the comparison of the RDA and MU
counts.
4.          There are some significant differences between the RDA and MU counts,
with the weighted average of the RDA counts being about 17% higher than the MU
counts.  This can be attributed to a number of factors, including the time
periods between the counts and the civil unrest in the south of the country
during this period, simple inaccuracies in the counts, and incidents such as the
traffic accident which blocked the road for a number of hours near one of the
counting stations.



-61-
Aumex 9
Page 2 of 30
Adjustments to the RDA Traffic Counts
5.          Adjustments to the RDA traffic counts were made incorporating the
following factors:
(a)   Galle Road, Km 22:  the RDA counts, adjusted to 1989, are 1.27 times
the MU counts. The MU counts are only 64X of the machine count,
while the RDA count is a more reasonable 81X (the remainder being
mostly motorcycles and animal- drawn vehicles.) In Table A4.1-2 the
MU count has been increased to 80X of the machine count.
(b)   Galle Road, Km 34:  no adjustment except rounding to the nearest
hundred vehicles.
(c)   Calle Road, Km 42:  due to the errors detected in the first four
hours of the MU counts, the AADT numbers have been reduced to 80X
of the machine counts.  The adjusted traffic volume is close to the
RDA counts.
(d)   Galle Road, Km 105: the MU and TSPC counts are very low compared to
the RDA and machine counts.  An accident blocked the road for a
number of hours during the MU and TSPC counts, and clearly reduced
the volume counted by MU during the 16-hour count period.  At the
same time, the RDA count is high relative to the machine covnt. The
MU count has been adjusted to 80X of the machine count.
(e)   Seeduwa-Udugampola Road: the MU count is lower than the RDA and TSPC
counts and is low in relation to the machine count. The RDA count
is high in relation to the machine count. The MU count has been
increased to 802 of the machine count.
(f)   Dankotuwa-Giriulla Road: the machine counts are high relative to all
other counts, but the other counts are relatively consistent. The
MU count has been increased to 2,000 vehicles, an increase of about
5X, but still about 3X below the RDA count.
(g)   Katubedda-Piliyandala Road: the machine counts is low relative to
all other counts, and the RDA count is high relative to the MU and
TSPC counts. No adjustment was made to the MU count other than
rounding.
6.          Following these adjustments, the weighted average volume shown by
RDA is 52 higher than the MU counts, which appear to represent the actual
December 1989 volumes. Thus, for all roads, the RDA volumes have been reduced
accordingly. The resulting estimated 1989 traffic volumes for each of dhe six
vehicle types in the RDA classification were further adjusted to five vehicle
types using the TSPC vehicle definitions in order to align them with the
classification used to calculate vehicle operating costs.   The resulting
estimated traffic volumes on the project roads as of December, 1989 are shown
in Table A4.1-3.



-62-
Arnez 9
Page 3 of 30
Traffic Forecasts
7.          To obtain an indication of past growth rates in transport, traffic
growth rates, the growth of the vehicle fleet, increases in road-related fuel
consumption, growth in population and income and their relationship to traffic
growth, and the rates used in other studies were analyzed. The results of this
analysis forms the basis of traffic forecasts for the opening year and the
subsequent period.
Traffic Growth Rates
8.          The available data on traffic growth rates on the project roads show
a wide variation in the growth rates in those areas where more than one count
had been carried out at a single location. The growth rates appear quite high,
but the variations among the different roads, and some of the more extreme
results, suggest that the counts in the earlier years ara not sufficiently
reliable to provide a useable indication of specific traffic growth rates.
The Vehicle Fleet
9.          The size and composition of the active vehicle fleet for the years
from 1975 to 1985 were estimated in the Transport Sector Planning Study (TSPS),
which used the number of annual licenses issued, and other fleet information,
to adjust the registered fleet to take account of vehicles thought to be still
registered but  no  longer active.1'   These  estimates  indicate  that  the
registration statistics overstate the size of the active vehicle fleet, primarily
because vehicles are not usually "de-registered" when they go out of service
and that the annual licencing statistics somewhat understate the size of the
active fleet at any given time because some proportion of the vehicles are
unlicensed. This is particularly true in the case of the number of buses in the
fleet. However, the growth rates in the number of vehicle licenses issued, shown
in Table A4.1-4, do provide a reasonable indication of the growth of the active
fleet.
10.         The growth rates are shown for three periods: 1975 to 1988, 1980 to
1987, and 1982 to 1987. The period to 1982 is not considered indicative of a
long-term growth rate because of two factors: the liberalization of the economy
in 1979, which resulted in a rapid increase in vehicle imports, and the opening
of the bus transport industry to private operators, which resulted in a rapid
increase in the import of small to medium-sized buses.  In 1988, the civil
disturbances in the south of the country, combined with the ongoing civil problem
in the north and northeast, could have had the effect of reducing the growth
rates to levels below what they otherwise might have been. Thus, the 1982 to
1987 growth rates are probably the most indicative of what the actual rates would
be under the normal circumstances. During this period, the weighted growth rate
for all vehicles is 7.62 per year.
I/  Transport Sector Planning Study, Volume 4, p. 6-2



-63-
Armex 9
Page 4 of 30
11.         Vehicle licensing data for cars  trucks and buses while leaving out
motorcycles, farm tractors and three wheelers, indicate a weighted average growth
rate of 8.7X per year during this period. If the growth rate from the lowest
growth period is selected for each vehicle type, the weighted average growth in
vehicle licenses is 6.41 per year.
12.         The civil disturbances in the north and northeast resulted in
considerably reduced demand for bus transport "a these areas, and a lower
nationr'. average growth than the 7.90 average rates estimated in the TSPS
report.Al    On balance, however, the statistics would appear to support a
national average growth rate in the ordear about 61 per year.
Fuel ConsumDtion
13.         Data on the annual sales of petroleum fuels (petrol and diesel) used
in 'inland transport' include both road and rail. Considering the redtction in
rail service resulting from the civil disturbances in the north and east, the
growth rates including rail would understate the actual growth rates in fuel
consumption on the roads.11 For this reason, the consumption data were adjusted
to remove the estimated rail consumption of diesel fuel.  The original and
adjusted consumption data, and the estimated rates of growth in consumption of
road fuels, are shown in Table A4.1-5.
14.         The annual growth rates for both fuels show considerable fluctua-
tions, to the extent that it is difficult to discern useable trends on a year-
by year basis. This is partly a function of the onset and degree of the civil
unrest, first in the north and east, then in the south, and partly a function
of a series of significant price changes. There may also be some degree of
variation attributable to statistics errors. However, the longer-term rates
appear more reasonable. The weighted average growth rate for petrol and diesel
consumption combined in the period 1975 to 1984 is 7.91 per year, and in 1975
to 1988, 5.41 per year.
Other Indicators
15.         A number of other studies have provided indications of past growth
rates and of expected future growth, including the following:
(a)   The Trunk Roads Maintenance Project postulated that traffic growth
would be related to population and income growth, with an income
elasticity of demand between 1.5 and 2.0. A continuation of the
historic road traffic growth rate of 6X per year was considered
2/     TSPS, Vol. 3, pp. 5-2 and 5-3.
Railway Statistics show that both train kilometers and locomotive
kilometers have declined since 1981, with particularly sharp declines
in 1988.



-64-
Anniz 9
Page 5 of 30
appropriate, and consistent with population growth, income growth
and an income elasticity of demand for transport of about 1.5.11
(b)   The TSPS estimated that total traffic would grow at about 7.1X per
year (Vol. 1) and that the demand for bus travel would grow at a rate
of about 1.1 times the rate of growth of the Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). The GDP was expected to grow at about 5.2X per year, and bus
traffic at 5.71 (Vol. 3). The vehicle fleet was expected to grow
at 6X per year, and a roan traffic growth rate of 6X was used for
the preparation of the proposed highway maintenance program (Vol.
4).
(c)   The ADB Second Road Improvement Project report based the estimates
of passenger vehicle traffic growth on the growth of population and
GDP, using an assumed income elasticity of demand of 1.2.  This
resulted in growth rates ranging from 4.6 to 5.9X per year depending
on the area involved.11 Truck traffic was assumed to grow at the
same rate as GDP.
Forecasting Method
16.         General traffic growth rates are first estim ted on the basis of past
growth rates in traffic, vehicle licenses, fuel consumption, and forecast growth
in population and income. The general rates are estimated for four periods: 1990
to the opening dates of the roads, then for increments of seven, seven and six
years thereafter, to cover the assumed 20-year life of each rehabilitation
project. These rates, which decline in each succeeding period after the opening
of each project, are the same for all roads. The general rates are then modified
for the individual roads where appropriate, on the basis of the socioeconomic
characteristics of each area.
17.         In preparing the forecasts it was assumed that the railway would
continue to carry the same proportion of the total traffic as in 1986; the latest
year for which comparisons have been made. The greatest impact of the railway
would be in the case of the commuter passenger service south of Colombo, which
runs parallel to some of the Galle Road sections included in this project. It
was estimated that the railway carried about 34,000 passengers per day on its
most densely-travelled link in this corridor in 1986. If rail traffic were to
increase to its previous peak (1979) of 50,000 passengers by diverting the
passengers from buses, the bus traffic on Galle Road parallel to most densely-
travelled link would have declined by about 5%.61 Bus traffic in this area
i/        Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick & Partners, Trunk Roads Maintenance Project
Final Report. 1985, p. 161.
DHV Consulting Engineers et. al., ADB Second Road Improvement Proiect,
Phase I Final Report, 1987.
Derived from the Transport Sector Planning Study, 1988, Vol. 5, pp. 6-
16 et. seq.



-65-
Annex 9
Page 6 of 30
accounts for about 351 of total AADT; therefore an increase of 471 in rail
passengers gained by diverting passengers from buses would reduce total road AADT
by less than 2X. It therefore seems unlikely that the results of the analysis
will be sensitive to any reasonable range of increase in rail transport gained
by diverting traffic from the roads.
Forecast Traffic Growth attes
18.         The forecasts relating to the provinces in the current project area
are shown in two scenarios: the continuation of the civil disturbances
(Scenario 1) and the ending of the civil disturbances and return to normal
(Scenario 2).  The Scenario 1 forecasts were used in the sensitivity tests
incorporating reduced initial traffic volumes and reduced growth rates.
19.         The Scenario 2 forecasts growth rates in GDP by province range from
a low of 2.81 to a high of 61, with a weighted average of 5X per year. Since
traffic growth is generally at a higher rate than the growth in GDP in developing
countries, and since this trend has been confirmed in the case of bus travel in
Sri Lanka, an initial overall growth rate of about 61 per year is a reasonable
expectation.
20.         The Scenario 2 rates of growth in per capita income range from 3 to
51 per year, with a weighted average of about 51. The forecast weighted average
population growth in the project area for the period after 1991 is 1.14 per year.
If a low income elasticity of demand for transport of 1.2 is assumed, this would
result in a traffic growth rate of about 61 per year. The growth in the vehicle
fleet and in fuel consumption, plus the rates used in other studies, all tend
to support a general growth of about 61 per year.
21.         Three steps were taken to maintain a conservative bias in the
forecasts. First, although the evidence appears to support an initial general
growth rate of at least 61 per year, this rate was applied only to those roads
where the socioeconomic factors indicated an above average growth potential.
Other roads were assumed to have an initial growth rate of 51 per year. Second,
a growth rate of 31 between 1990 and the opening year of the project was applied
to all roads with a below-average growth potential and 41 to the roads with an
above average growth potential, even though a more rapid growth could be expected
in the recovery period following the generally-depressed traffic levels of the
past year or two. Third, the initial average growth rate is assumed to prevail
for only the first seven years following the open ing of each project road,
declining by one percentage point (i.e. by 17 to 201) for the second seven years,
and again for the final six years. Thus, the general growth rates in the four
periods (1990 to opening year; first seven years; second seven years, and final
six years), are 3 to 41, 51, 41 and 31 respectively.
22.         These general growth rates were then modified to take account of
cases having higher than average growth potential, but using a maximum initial
rate of 61 per year. The cases having higher growth rates, and the reasons, are
as follows:



-66-
Arez 9
Page 7 of 30
(a) Project I-1, Moratuwa-Kalutara: high urban pop-lAation; major towns
with high growth and greater potential for industrial development.
(b)   Project I-3, Ambalangoda-Galle: development of Galle Harbour, Export
Promotion Zone and osxpansion of the tourist industry.
(c)   Project I-4, Katunayake-Nittambuwa: expansion of the International
Airport activities and the Katunayake Industrial Zone.
(d)   Project I-6,  Biyaiwila-Ganemulla:  Katunayake  IPZ and proposed
construction of the Colombo Katunayake Expressway.
(e)   Project 1-7, Seeduwa-Udugampola: important link between Colombo
Katunayake and the proposed Colombo-Katunayake Expressway. High
growth of population and urban settlements due to IPZ and tourism.
(f)   Project 11-1, Galle-Matara: Galle Harbour development and EPZ;
expansion of tourist industry and development of manufacturing
industry, especially in light engineering.
(g)   Project II-2, Kaduvela-Hanwella:   consequent to the opening of
Katunayake Bridge, becomes a connection to the Kandy Road; also
development of industries due to improved access.
(h)   Project II-3, Peliyagoda-Kadawatha: high rate of urban expansion,
and construction of the proposed Katunayake Expressway.
(i)   Project II-4, Dehiwela-Maharagama: expansion of urban complexes of
Dehiwela-Mt. Lavinia and Haharagama. Important access to link A4
and A2.
(j)   Project II-7, Hunupitiya-Hendala: high rate of urban growth and the
construction of the proposed Colombo-Katunayake expressway.
(k)   Project II-9, Katubedda-Piliyandala: high urban growth in Moratuwa
and Piliyandala areas with the expansion of the Moratuwa University
and the Arthur Clark Center.
(1)   Project 11-18, Isurupaya-Pannipitiya:  expansion of urban settle-
ments in Sri Jayawardenapura, and relocation of government offices
in the same area.
23.      The forecast opening-year traffic volumes and subsequent growth rates
are shown in Table A4.1-6.



-67-                                                          Annex 9
Page 8 of 30
TABLE 4A.1-1
TRAFFIC MEYS
GROUP I (Designed Roads)                          Traffic Survys
-Historic Grwt
Tyve nd Diration                        Traffic Volue                Rate (1 Per Yr.)
Location          
Project                                 ot           Class. Hach.   0 - D           Light Iledius  eav  Uwge llediu  Total 2-Point 3-Point
Amber           Road Link             Strve     Yew  Cm Cou rtCot  Survey  Caws Trucks Trucks Trucks hies  Suss  ADT   Period  Period
.. _. .. . i. _.... _ _ . - _ - -   
(I)    (2)  l3)    (4)       lS)     (6)  (7)    181   (9)   (10)   lll)   1212   113)         (14)
(Ka.)         (I.) (Days)
1-1 AC   Horatuva - Kalutara            23        86     12   7               3218   334  1477    20   941  2611  8601
(Ks. 1945)                35        85    12   3  09/25-27.  1833   190   U1           12   536  1487  &898
35       87           7              1918   701   1158    33   523   1475  5807          8.9S
35       89           7              2533  926  1528   4          690 19       7668   14.9%    11.9%
39       87           7              2267   829   1368    39    618  1743  686S
42        80    16   1       07/02   2345   341   563       16   25        0   "45
42       84    12    4  06127-30   1602   586   967         28   *36  1232  4850         2.2t
42       87    12    7               314    793   497   898    755  1815  7M2           17.71     8.5%
1-2 AC  Kalutra - Amalaoda              53        85     12   3   10102-04   1409   462   295         3    382  1083  3634
(Ks. V85)                  63        8i    12   3  07/23-25    787   437   279           3    534   934   2974
73       85    12   2   10/10U11   843   359   229           5   315   639  2390
74       87     12   7                790   289   477    14   215   608  2393
74       89    12    7                929   339   560    16   253   714  2812            8.4%
78       80    16   3  0219-21    662   262   168            0    351      0   143
1-3 AC   Abaaluod - Ga1le               105       80     16   1       05/11    730   313   200        0    513      0   1756
(Ka. 86-117)              105       87    12   7                1001    364   60       17   273   770  3030         8.1%
105      89    12   7                1299  475  78          22   354   99   3931        13.9%    9.4%
1-4 K   Katueyake-Veyangoda -            5        87    12    7                45    350   323    27    269   48    1939
Nittamuw'                       5        89    12   7                 60    436   402    34    335  604   2414          11.6%
1-5 R    toppu - Daotwa -               48        87    12   7                 345   216    453       0    108   173  1294
Giriulla                       48        8      12   7                370   231   486        0    116   185   1389       7.3%
4U       89      12   7               550   34    723        0  172    275  206        8.7n    26.3%
14 K    Bivarils - 6neG ulla             3        88    12   7                 371    196   109       0   218    262   1156
3       89      12   7               542   287    159       0    319   383   1690    46.1%
1-7 RC  Seed"  - ULagola                 4        85    12    7                170    35    52        0     96    SS   409
4       88      12   7               435    48    169       0    242   169  10N       37.5%
1-8 RC   btara - Hmae                    4        89    12   7                1020   113   397        0    567   397  2493   134.3%    57.1%
(Tale 44.1-1 contltljed an next oel)
_   _  __- _                  _- ==2 S:S 



Annex 9
-68-                                                         Pag;19 of 30
Table A4.1-1 (Continued)
GOR9  11                                           Traffic SUveys
........  ----                                                    Historic Growth
(Roads Not Yet Designed)                                 Type and Duration                        Traffic Volume                Rate (% rxr Yr.)
Location                                                                     ------  --- - -_       - -
Project                                  ot           Class.   ach.   0 - 0          Light Medius Heavy  Large Medius Total 2-Point 3-Point
NPumber          Road Lirt             Survey    Year Count Count  Survey   Cars Trucks Trucks Trucks 8uses Buses  ADt   Period   Feriod
(1)     (2)    (3)    (4)      (5)     (6)   (7)    (8)    (9)    (10)   (11)   (12)   (13)      (14)
(K1.)         (Hrs.) (Dars)
II-1 AC Galle - Matara                   141       84     24      4             545    129    317       1    232   419   1643
(Km. 118-162)                161       88     24      7             543    335    349      1   208   470   1906         3.8S
160      86      26      2             908    238    358      3    465  38    2355
II-2 AC Kadwela - Hanela                  9        81     24      3             120     36    179      9      73     59   477
9        87     24      7             669    202    99S     51   406    326   2650      33.1%
II-3 AC Peiiyagoda - Kadawathe            6        81    26       3            7209   1712  2244    114   1598   2929  15806
6        86     24      7            6708  l593   2089    106   1487   2726  14709    -1.4%
6        87    24       7            9930   2358  3092    157  2201   4035  21M         4.0%       5.5%
11-4 AC  Dehiuela - Maharagama (8)        3        83     24      3             650    122   214        7   251    478   IM
3        86     24      7            1325    248    437     14    511   975  3510       26.8%
3        88     24      7            1382    259    456     14   533   1018  3662        2.2S    16.3t
11-5 AC  St. JoseDh Street (8)           1.5       83    24       4            2120    922   1132      26   263   1001   5465
1.5       88     24      7            2769   1204   1479     34    344   1307   7138      5.5%
11-6 AC Navinna - firihana                2        80     24      2             545    174      85      0     36    183   1023
2        88     24      7            1543    494    239      0    103    517  2896      13.9%
II-7 AC Hinoitiya-Uattala -              1.5       83     24      3            1160    175   315        7    416    496   2569
Hendala (8)                     1.5       88    24       7             1096    165    297      7   393    469   2426    -1.1%
1.5      89      24      7            1693    255    459     10   607    724   3749      54.5#    6M5
11-8 AC Chillav Road                     1.5       83     24      3            2048    652    805      23    126   456   4110
1.5       88     24      7            2860    910   1125     33    176   637   5740       6.9%
11-9 AC  Katubedda-Piliandeals           1.5       81     24      3             195     87     45      25     32     69    453
Road (8)                        1.5       86     24      7             1377    616    321    176   224    684   3199    *7.8S
1.5       89     24      7            1040    465    243    133    170   366  2617    -8."%    23.3%
II-10 RC Matara - Dickwella              180       88     24      7             413    193    323       2    204    460   1595
11-11 RC Dickwelia - Hambantota          224       88     24      7             580    268    365       8    208    390   1818
(Km. 183-241)               224       89     24      7             451    208    284      6    161    303   1414   -22.2%
II-12 RC Matara - Akuressa                8        83    24       3             166    104    131       2     72   123    598
8        88    24       7             298    186    235      3    130    221   1072      12.4t
11-13 RC Uattala - Wlahara Road (B)       3        88     24      7             576    194    528       0    114    182   1594
11-14 RC Negombo - Giriulla               3        81     24      3             195    132    238      10    85    115   775
3        87     24      7             333    224    405     17    144    196   1319      9.3t
3       89      24      7             551    372    671     28    239    324   2186     28.8%    13.8%
II-16 RC Beliatta - Tanralla              4        86     24      7             119     75    92        0    276    36     927
5        88     2i      7             153     79    147      0    266    268    912
5        89     24      7             143     74    138      0   249    251   855    -6.2%
11-17 RC Kirindivita - Ganeulla           1        88     24      7             188    97    181        0    326    329   1120
II-18 RC Isuwaa - Paniditiya              2        88    24       7             934    359      78    119    135    122   1747
Note:   The  vth rates used In the actual analysis are considerably lover in those cases vhere the adjusted rate is above 6% vithout
an adeauate exolanation



Annex 9
-69-                                                          Page 10 of 30
TAkLE A4.1-2
COMPARISON OF ADJUSTED TRAFFIC ESTIMATES: RDA & tlOUTUTWA ULIVERSITY
RDA      1989
1989     RDA            tloratuwa   1989
ADT &   Counts    RDA   Counts/   RDA
Date    Total   Adj'd   Rel. to    aine  Iechine  Counts/
Counting      of       ADT      Mor.  fMoratuwa   Counts  Counts Machine
Location       Agency       Count              ADT       (1)       (2)             Counts
Galle Rd. km 22  RDA              86    8601      9957
Moratuwa   Dec. 89     7850    9900        1.01    12356    0.80      0.81
Galle Rd. km 34  RDA              87    6864    7568
Moratuwa   Dec. 89    7511    7500         1.01     8535    0.88      0.89
Galle Rd. km 42  RDA              87    7902    8712
Moratuwa   Dec. 89   10661    8700         1.00    10818    0.80      0.81
Galle Rd. km 105 RDA              89    3933    3933 (3)
Moratuwa   Dec. 89    2039      3100       1.27     3922    0.79      1.00
Seeduwa-         RDA              88     1063    1116
Udugamwola Road  Moratuwa    Dec. 89      777     1000       1.12     1204    0.83      0.93
Dankotuwa -      RDA         .    89    2064      2064
Giriulla Road    lloratuwa    Dec. 89    1901     2000       1.03     3422    0.58      0.60
Katubedda-       RDA              87    3164      3488
Piliyandala Road moratuva   Dec. 89    *303?    3D00         1.16     3324     0.90     1.05



Annex 9
-70-                                                       Page 11 of 30
TABLE AM 1-3
ESTIMATED END-1989 TRAFFIC VOLUMlES
Estimated Traffic Volu e, December 1989 (AADT)
Car     Small
Project                                              4WD     & Med.   Large    Light    Heavy    Total
Nuber            Road Link                          Picku    Buses      Bus     Truck    Truck      AADT
-----,  ... . . . . .. . . . . ..              -- --    ....
GROUP I (Desioned Roads)
I-1 AC   Moratuwa - Kalutara                         2412     1855       657     1743      636      7303
1-2 AC   Kalutara - Ambalangoda                       885      680       241      639       233     2678
1-3 AC   Anbalangoda - Galle                         1237      951       337      894      326      3744
1-4 RC   Katunayake-Veyanoda - Nittambuwa             575      575       319      642       188     2299
I-5 RC   Topou - Dankotwa - Giriulla                  524      262       166      735       281     1966
1-6 RC   Biyanwila - Ganemulla                        516      364       304      363        62     1609
1-7 RC   Seedwa - Udugampola                          435      169       242      169       69      1066
1-8 RC   Matara - Hakmna                              971      378       540      332       1S4     2374
GROUP II (Roads Not Yet Designed)
11-1 AC  Galle - natara                               543      670       208      541       144     1906
11-2 AC  Kadwuela - Hanvella                          702      343       427      830       480     2782
11-3 AC  Peliyagodb - Kadamatha                     10426     4237      2311     4398      1490    22861
II-4 AC  Dehivela - Maharagm   (B)                   1382     1018       533      529       200     3662
11-5 AC  St. Joseph Street (B)                       2769     1307       344     2080       638     7138
11-6 AC  Navinna - Mirihaa                           1543      517       103      636        98     2896
11-7 AC  Hnoitiya-Jattala - Hedala (B)               1613      690       578      502       188     3570
II-8 AC  Chillaw Road                                2860      637       176     1576       491     5740
11-9 AC  Katubedda-Piliyandala (B)                    991      348       161      580       221     2301
11-10 RC tlatara - Dickvella                          413      460       204      386       134     15'
11-11 RC Dickvella - HaIbantota                       430      289       154      358       116     1347
II-12 RC iatara - Akuressa                            298      221       130      325        99     1072
11-13 RC Wattala - Mahara Rod (B)                     576      182       114      507       215     1594
II-14 RC Negoabo - Giriulla                           525      309       228      732.    288       2082
II-15 RC Hambantota -  elellaiaya                     250      163        98      183        59      753
II-16 RC Beliatta - Tangalle                          136      239       237      148        54      814
11-17 RC Kirindivita - Ganeaulla                      188      329       326      204        74     1120
II-18 RC Isuruaya - Pann}iptiya                       934      122       135      405       151     1767



-71-                                                       Annex 9
Page 12 of 30
TABLE A6. 1-4
VEHICLE UCENCES ISSUED: ALL VEHICLES
notor-   L6cd
Year    Cars   Buses  Trucks  cycles   Veh.    Other   total
1975   58204    6205    17823   10805    15519        235  108791
1980   81218    52a8   38163    59374   32051          72  216158
1982   78655    8398   42298    76938   37685         128  24102
1985    80000   14400   70400   103300   42000        100  310200
1986   110812   12965   66165   102437   49016        140  341535
1987   114387   13383   68299   105741    50597       144  352551
1988   122716   14358   73273   113441    54281       155  378224
Estimated Growth Rstes
1975-88     5.9n     6.72    11.52    19.82    10.It   -3.22    10.12
1980-87     5.0S    14.22     8.7%     8.6S     6.7S    10.46     7.22
1982-87     7.8S     9.82    10.12     6.62     6.12     2.42     7.62
VEHICLE LICENCES ISSUED: CARS, BUSES AND TRUCKS
Year    Crs   Buses  Trucks   Total
1975   58204    6205   17823   82232
1980   81218    5280   38163   124661
1982   78655    8398    42298   129351
1985   80000    14400    70400   164800
1986  110812   12965   66165   189942
1987   114387   13383    68299  196069
1988   122716   14358   73273  210347
Estimted Growth Rates
1975-8      5.92     6.72    11.52     7.52
1980-87     5.02    14.22     8.72     6.72
1982-87     7.8S     9.8S    10.1l     8.7t
Swces:  TVs$ Vol. 4 P. 6-2, Dewrtment of Registration
of Rotor Vehicles, and Ctonsultants' estimates.



-72-
Annex 9
Page 13 of 30
TABLE A 1-5
COSIWTION OF PETROLEIM PROOUCTS
(11etric Tons)
Product                1975   1976    1977   1978   1979    1980   1981   1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   1988
1. Petrol
Swer Petrol                69813  77612   89336  112961  108678  107691  109028  114217  117N90  118831  121578  130263  140067  ISJ158
Reglar Petrol              252U   23653   22155   17033   6668    -         -           -       -       -           -       -       -
km.al Growth: Petrol                 6.3S   10.3*   16.6S  -11.*   -6.5S    1.2%   4.8*    2.9S    1.1S    2.3S    7.1S    7.5   12.8S
2. Diesel
Total Diesel              265515 257557 261988  308792 36960  397710 420912 466459   67272  495721  502052  503313 516255 518292
Less: Railway diesel
Loco. KI. (000)         13460   12389  10261   12651   12083   11933   11763   11272   9021   9277   9665   9199   9388   6963
Est. Koer  etric ton    322    322    322    322    322    322            350    346      296    290    285    351    366    300
Est. rail cons. (1)     43251  39869  33021  60069   38885   38402  33S88  32742  30665   31982  33166  26207  25826  23146
Est. Road Corstion        202266  217688 228967  268723 310519  359308  387324 631852  6A2307 43739  468888  *771u6 490629 695146
Amuul Growth: Diesel                 7.6S    5.2S   17.65   15.6S   15.7I     7.8S   11. 5   2.6*    L. 8    1.1S    1.8S    2.8S    1.0*
3. Petrol + Diesel        360572  35e622  373479  638786  664550 505401  529960  578811  590262 614552  623630  633576 656302  676307
kal Growth: P + 0                    5.3S    6 .1    17.5    5.9*    8.8*    4.9*    9.2S    2.0$    .1S    1.5#    1.6S    3.6S    3.0D
Periodic Groth:          1975-8      9.7S        Periodic Crowth:        1975-84     5.8*        Periodic Grwth:         1975-86     7.9%
Diesel                1975-88     7.1*           Petrol               1975-88    4.0*         Petrol + Diesel         1975-88     5.6*
(1) ktual rail consmetion fig*s m   avilable for 1Q81 to 1988. Locomotive kilometers war year wre available for all years.
Avere locomtive kilometers wr ton of diesel were calculated from 1981 to 1988 and used to estimate ceortion from 1975 to 1980.
Sources: Ceylon Petrolea CwoMtion ar Cotdltants' estitates.



Annex 9
-73-                                                Page 14 of 30
TA8LE A. 1-6
TRAFFIC FORECASTS
Estimated Traffic Volume, End of Ooening Year AADT)            Forecast Gro.th rates
Owen-    Car    Small                                                   (Percent er Year)
Project                                           ing      IUD    b ftd.  Large   Lisht   Heavy   Total           1990 to   Years   Years   Years
DAber           Road Link                         Year   Pickup  Buses    Bus    Truck   Truck          AADT    On. Yer  1- 7  8 - 14  15 - 20
GO  I (Designed Roads)
1-1 AC  Mloreatva- Kalutara                       1S95    3052    2347        831    2206       804     9241         4.0%     6.0%     5.0%     4.0%
1-2 AC  Kalutara - Ambalangoda.                   1995    1056       812      288      763      278    3198          B.O%    5.0%      4.0%     3.0%
1-3 AC  Abalanoda - Gaile                         1995     1477    1136       402     1067      389    4471          3.0%     5.0%    6.0%      4.0%
1-4 RC  Katunayake-Vevangods - Nitta a            195       727      727      40       812      238     2909          4.0%    6.0%     4.0%     4.0%
1-5 RC   ToDou - Dankotuwa - Giriulla             1995      663      332      207      930      355    2488           4.0%     5.0%    4.0%     3.0%
1-6 RC  Biyanwila - Ganenulla                     1995      653      461      384      460       78    203            4.0%    6.0%     4.0%     4.0%
1-7 RC   See4a - odugabvola                       1995      551      214      306      188       87     1346          4.0t    6.0%     4.0%     4.0%
I-8 RC    atare - Hakaw                           1997   .1230       478      684      420      195    3008            0%      5.0%    4.0%     3.0%
RW 11  (Rods Not Yet Designed)
LI-1 AC  Galle - Matara                           1"?       688      596      254      685      182    2415           3.0%     5. 0%   6.0%     4.0%
11-2 AC Kaduelo  - Hanswlla                       1996      924      451      562    1093       632     3661          4.Ot    6.0%     5.0%     4.6C
Il-3 AC Pelvyagso   - Kadatha                     1996   13720      5575    3041    5787    1960    30083             4.0%     5.0%    4.0%     4.0%
114- AC  Dehivela - llharagama (8)                1996    1819    1339        701      696      264    6819           4.0%    6.0%     5. 0%    4.0
11-5 AC St. Joseoh Street (8)                     1995    3504      1654      *35    2631       807    9032           4.0%     5.0%    4.0%     3.0%
11-6 AC Navina -  lirihan                         1996    200        680      135      837      129    3810           4.0%     5.0%    A 0%     3.Ot
11-7 AC ftwitiya4bttala - Hendala (B)             1996    2122       908      761      660      247    4698           4.0%     6.0%    5.0%     4.0%
11-8 AC Chillaw Rod                               1995    3619       806      m       1994      622     7262          4.0%     5.0%    4.0%     3.0%
II-9 AC Katutedda-Piliyandala (B)                 1996     130       458      212      763      291     3029          4.0%     6.0%     5.0%    5.0%
11-10 RC Matars - Dickuella                       197       523      583      259      486      169    2020           3.0O     5.0%    4.0      3 5.0%
II-l1 RC Dickwella - tlambntota                   1997      544      366      195      454      147    1706           3.0%     5.0%    4.0%     3.0%
11-12 RC latara - Akuressa              *         197       377      280      164      411      126    1358           3.0%     5.0%     4.0%     3.0%
II-13 RC Uabtala -  Wa  Road (8)                  1996      758      239      150      667      283    2098           4.0%     5.0%    4.0%     3.0%
11-14 RC Negoubo - Giriulla                       195       664      391      288      927      36      2634          4.0%     5.0%     4.0%    3.0%
11-16 RC Beliatta - Ta ll                         1997      173      303      300      187       68     1032          3.0%     5.0%    4. 0%    3.0%
11-17 r 'irindivita - Gmuielo                     1996      267      433      429      268       97     1474          4.0%     5.0%     4.0%    3.0%
II-18     si ways - Panrioitiya                   1996     1229      160      178      554      198    2299           4.0%     5.0%     5.0%    4.0%
I The irth rates to forecast the traffic from
December, 1989 to the opening year s taken as
4% for the roads in the Vestern province and 3t
for Sothwrn  Nrth-est and Uva orovinces.



-74-
Annex 9
Page 15 of 30
B. Vehicle Oierating Co0t8
Introduction
24.         The proposed project consists almost entirely of the resurfacing of
the roads to reduce road roughness. They generally do not include any sig-
nificant upgrading of the roads beyond their existing standards, although minor
widening is included in some cases. Most of the road sections are located in
relatively flat country where gradients and curvature tend to be moderate. The
cost calculations therefore concentrate on the effects on vehicle operating costs
of reducing the roughness of the road surfaces.
Basic Vehigle Operating Costs (VOCs)
25.         The vehicle operating cost technical relationships used in the
analysis are derived from the Transport Sector Planning Study (TSPS) Final Report
dated January 1988. This report used 11 vehicle types (including motorcycles)
to represent the vehicle fleet, and presented estimated vehicle operating costs
for paved roads in "good" condition (defined as a Bump Integrator roughness of
3,8C3 mm/km.) in flat to rolling terrain.  The 1986 costs shown in the TSPS
report have been adjusted to reflect 1990 values, and are presented in three
tables.  Table A4.2-1, "1990 Vehicle Operating Costs: Basic Data' shows the
physical and operational characteristics of the vehicles selected to represent
the vehicle fleet in Sri Lanka. Table A4.2-2, "1990 Vehicle Operating Costs:
Unit Costs' shows the financial and economic unit costs of the vehicles, fuel,
tires, and ether components of the costs of owning, maintaining and operating
a vehicle. Table A4.2-3, "1990 Vehicle Operating Costs per 1000 Kilometers',
shows the costs per 1000 kilometers by vehicle type. These costs represent the
estimated 1990 financial and economic costs, and exclude the time costs of all
passengers and of the drivers of non-commercial vehicles.
Economic Costs
26.         The economic costs were derived primarily by deduction of transfer
payments such as taxes and duties from the financial costs. The motor, tire and
parts dealers provided the current amounts of taxes and duties actually paid on
the vehicles, parts and tires. The economic costs of fuels are based on an
assumed average crude oil price of US$ 20 per barrel and the current exchange
rate of approximately Rs. 40 - US$ 1. Overhead costs are reduced from the cor-
responding financial costs to remove the estimated tax and duty content, which
is small because the overhead costs consist primarily of labor costs.   For
automobiles, 60 percent of depreciation costs are assumed to be distance-related
while for commercial vehicles depreciation is assumed to be wholly related to
the distance travelled. A residual value of 10 percent of the new value of the
vehicle is assumed.
27.         The vehicle operating costs were then consolidated into five vehicle
types for calculation purposes and to correspond to the available traffic data.
The vehicle mix and average annual kilometers used for this purpose were derived
from TSPS but were adjusted on the basis of a discussion with the Registrar of



-75-
Annex 9
Page 16 of 30
Motor Vehicles.21 The resulting vehicle operating costs are shown in Table A4.2-
4.
Vehicle Operating Costs and Road Roai'meas
28.         There has been little empirical testing of the relationships between
road roughness and VOC in Sri Lanka, so the approach used here is based on a
review of the relationships used in three studies carried out in Sri Lanka plus
the results of a number of studies done elsewhere. The sources include the
following:
(a)   the Sri Lanka Transport Sector Planning Study (TSPS), which was
completed in 1988. The relationships used in this study are based
on the results of research carried out by the Transport and Road
Research Laboratory (TRRL) in Kenya and the Caribbean;
(b)   the report of the ADB Second Road Improvement Project, completed in
1987. In this project, the economic feasibility of applying asphalt
overlays to 18 road sections with a total length of 390 kilometers
was evaluated, using a model developed or adapted by the consultants
who carried out the study;
(c)   the Staff Appraisal Report on the Second Road Rehabilitation Project
(Ln. 2517 CE), dated March 1985. The relationships used in this
study consist of a constant percentage increase in VOCs for each
increment of 300 millimeters per kilometer (mm/km) of roughness,
based on the results of studies in the Philippines and Sri Lanka;
(d)   the report on the Road User Cost Study in India issued by the Indian
Central Road Research Institute, dated 1982; and
(e)   the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III), draft
version, March 1985.
29.         In each case, in order to make the different sources comparable, the
relationships between VOC and roughness were calculated in the form of a set of
indices for each representative vehicle type, with VOCs at a road roughness of
2000 mm/km equated to 1. They do not take full account of the effects of speed
reductions resulting from factors other than roughness. The indices for the ADB
study, derived from a simplified summary table shown in the report, are based
on a level tangent road with average daily traffic of 3,000 vehicles, and do not
include the effects of speed reductions resulting from road curvature and grad-
ients.
30.         The results of the comparisons, shown in Table A4.2-5, indicate some
differences among the sources. It was decided to adopt the average of four of
the sources: the ADB, the Bank and TSPS results, which had been applied
specifically in Sri Lanka, and the India results, on the assumption that
2/ TSPS, Volume 4, p. 6-5.



-76-
Annex 9
Page 17 of 30
conditions in India would be similar to those in Sri Lanka. The inclusion of
the HDM-III results had little effect on the selected values, which are also
shown in Table A4.2-5. The indices were then applied to th vehicle operating
costs from Table A4.2-4 to derive the values for VOC related to road roughness,
shown in Table A4.2-6.
31.         A number of sources were reviewed to identify road roughness formulas
which would take account of the structural characteristics of the individual
roads, the relationships between roughness and vehicle axle loads, and the time
since the last periodic maintenance, and which could be applied without the need
to run a full, complex road maintenance model.   There were essentially two
possibilities available: the Transport and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL)
approach and the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards (HDM III) approach.
32.         A version of the TRRL formula was applied in Sri Lanka in the ADB
Second Road Improvement Project.81 The formula was based on TRRL Report No. 673,
and estimated the road patching required due to cracking and potnoles on
pavements with structural strength numbers between 2.75 and 3.25.
33.         This formula does not take account of the specific structural number
of each individual road section, nor of the time since the last periodic
maintenance.   An alternative formulation which takes account of structural
strength and estimates roughness more directly in millimeters per kilometer is
shown in TRRL Laboratory Report 1057, but still does not take account of the time
since the last periodic maintenance.91
34.         The version of the HDM III approach considered most suitable for this
project shows the following relationship for flexible pavements without extensive
cracking:l
RI(t)       - [RIO + 725 (1 + SNC)-4 " NEA(t)] eol0s53t, where
RI(t) & RIo - roughness at times t and t - 0, in m/km IRI;
NE4(t)      - cumulative equivalent standard axle loadings to time t, in
million ESA per lane, since construction or the last
overlay;
t           - age of pavement since overlay or construction, and
SNC         - the modified structural number.
1/      Second Road Improvement Project. Phase I Final Report.  Prepared by DHV
Consulting Engineers et. al. for the Government of Sri Lanka and the
Asian Development Bank, July 1987, pp. 6-7.
i/      L.L. Parsley and R. Robinson, TRRL Laboratory Report 1057, Tihe TRRL Roa
Investment Model for Develon_ng Countries (RTIM2), 1982, p. 18.
William D.O. Patterson, Road Deterioration and Maintenance Effects: The
Highway Desien and Maintenance Standards Series, World Bank, 1987, p.
304 et. seq.



-77-
Annex 9
Pag 18 of 30
This model takes account of the specific structural number of each individual
road section and of the time since construction or the last overlay, and it was
found to provide better predictive results than the TRRL's RTIM2 model. Using
the model, there is a unique roughness progression on each road, depending on
the opening-year roughness, the traffic volume and mix, the age of the pavement
and the structural strength of the road.
Road Rou ghness Progress.ons
35.         Axle Loads. The progression of road roughness over time is dependent
on the volume of traffic using the road, expressed in terms of the number of
passes of axles of different weights.   The axle weights are expressed in
"Equivalent Standard Axles' (ESA), calculated as follows:
ESA - (axle load in kilograms/8160)4-55
36.         Axle load survey data have been derived from a number of studies and
from recent surveys carried out on some of the project roads by RDA. Table A4.2-
7 shows the sources of the data, the estimates of axle loads made in the various
studies, the axle loads for the range of vehicle types used for the calculation
of vehicle operating costs for fully-loaded and empty vehicles, and the values
selected for use in the economic analysis. ll
37.         The axle load estimates by vehicle tyve are multiplied by the number
of vehicles of each type on each section of the project roads in each year of
the analysis, in order to derive the 'cumulative equivalent standard axle
loadings  to time t,  in million ESA per lane".   The ESAs  represent the
contribution of each vehicle type to the progression of road roughness. The
average of the ESL factors derived for the economic analysis (avetage ESI, per
vehicle) is approximately 0.408, compared with a country-wide average of 0.379
estimated in the TSPS.
38.         Roughness Measurements. Detailed roughness measurements using a bump
integrator were carried out by RDA on all of the project roads in 1988.  These
measurements were supplemented by the observations of RDA and TSPC consultants
in 1989. RDA also carried out supplementary measurements and estimated the 1990
roughness on all of the project roads. The results are shown in Table A4.2-8.
39.         Roughness Forecasts 'With' Project.  The application of the HDH III
formula requires as one of its inputs the time (term 't' in the formula) since
construction or the last overlay. The roads generally have not had overlays at
specific periods, but the maintenance carried out over the years could be
considered to have had an effect similar to an overlay at some time in the past.
To approximate this past year, traffic was 'backcast' to estimate the cumulative
equivalent axle loads for each past year. An opening roughness in the 'year of
last overlay' was assumed, at 2,000 mm/km for the roads designated for asphaltic
conzrete surfaces ('R+A' roads) and 3,000 mm/km for the roads designated for
ll/     Only one empty vehicle is shown, to illustrate the insignificant axle
loading of empty vehicles.



-78-
Page 19 of 30
regulating course surfacos ("R" roads). These estimates, along with the 1988
roughness measurements described above and estimates of the modified structural
numbers provided the necessary inputs for the application of the formula to
estimate the usquivalent year of last overlay" for each of the project roads.
The formula could then be applied to each road, using the 1988 measured roughness
as the RI. term; the axle load forecasts shown in Section 4.2 as the NE term; the
structural numbers shown in Section 8.2 as the V;-t 'erm and the equivalent year
of last overlay as the "t" term. This procedure vvs used to forecast the rough-
ness from the measured value in 1988 to the estimated values in the various
opening years of the roads.
40.         The equipment used in the RDA Bump Integrator tests was calibrated
on the basis that new asphaltic concrete in Sri Lanka had a roughness of 2,000
=rkm. This value, which was also used in the ADB study referred to earlier,
has been used in this study for the roads to be surfaced with asphaltic concrete.
A value of 2,800 rn/km has been used for the roads to be surfaced with an asphalt
regulating course. The progressions of road roughness on the rehabilitated roads
start with thesoe values and are determined thereafter by the application of the
HDM III formwla.
41.         The timing of the periodic resurfacing of the roads following
rehabilitation is also considered a function of the strength of the road and the
cumulative axle passes since rehabilitation or the last resurfacing. These are
both represented in the formula for the progression of roughness, so the reaching
of "trigger" roughness levels for each type of road (R+A, and R) was adopted as
an appropriate criterion for determining the timing of resurfacing. The trigger
levels of roughness wero set at 2,700 rn/km. for roads surfaced with asphaltic
concrete and 3700 for roads surfaced with the regulating course only, with the
roughness after resurfacing declining to 2,200 and 3,000 om/km. respectively.
42.         RuhbUss Forecasts :without" Project.   Road roughness in the
"without project" case also progresses at a rate determined by the strength of
the road tnd the cumlative axle passes. However, the engineering judgment is
that the roughness in this case does not decreise with the application of a
periodic resurfacing. Instead, it is assumed that this periodic resurfacing in
the "without" case will only slow down the rate of deterioration, and that
roughness will then increase at a more linear rather than exponential rate. The
formula for the progression of roughness has therefore been modified to a more
linear form for the "without" case to provide a rough approximatlon of the
progresslon of roughness under these assumptions.1    It is also assumed that,
in the "without' case, the roads deslgnated for an asphalt concrete surface will
not exceed a maximum roughness of approximately 6,500 rn/km. over the time period
covered by the analysis, and that the roads designated for a regulating-course
surface will not exceed 7,000 q /km. This is relatively consistent with previous
studies. It ia also supported by the observation that the highest measured
roughness on any of the project roads in 1988 was 6,010 an/km, whiLch suggests
I2/     The effect of applying the more comson assumptlon of a reduction in
roughness following periodic resurfacing In the "without case was
tested and found to have little effect on the results.



-79-
zI
Page 20 of 30
that, under the currant maintenance regime, repairs tend to be carried out at
or before the time this level of roughness is reached.
10.4.2.5  £r  x
43.         This system calculates a unique roughness progression for each road,
depending on the beginnig roughness, road strength, time since last overlay,
traffic mix and axle loads, and cumulative axle passes over time.  It is
therefore difficult to eompare the resulting progressions with the more
generalized approaches used in some of the othor studies. However, a general
comparison with other studies indicates that this system is reasonably consis-
tent with the progrossdons applied in other studies in Sri Lanka and elsewhere,
and it has the major advantage of taking account of the unique characteristies
of each road and traffic flow.



-80-                                                   Annex 9
Page 21 of 30
TALE A4.2-1
1990 UEHICLE OPERATING COSTS: BASIC DATA
Mledium Lare
Car    4 ND  Pickwo  Minibus    Bus        Bus  Truck A Truck B  Truck C Truck D
Mlitsu-   Tatal
fake                                Nissan  Nissan   Nissan   bishi  Ashok/   Isuzu  nitsu,   Isuzu   Isuzu
Mlodel                    SLX 1.3  Patrol    5023    Urvan    Rosa   Isuzu  HTRll4   FU13  NKR552  NPR596
tapwcity ISeats/kg)             5       6    1500         10       26       50    7000    14000    2500    4250
Gross Vehicle Ueight (kg)    1230    2450    2550       2750    5200   11000   12500   21400    4400    7000
Engine size (lc)             1270    3246    2289       1900    3298    5785    5785   14816    2771    3856
Fuel TyDe                  Petrol  Diesel  Diesel   Petrol  Diesel  Diesel  Diesel  Diesel  Diesel  Diesel
Fuel Cons. (lt/l00OC.a         80      110      100      130      150      270      280     350      140      180
Oil Cons. (lt/lOWb)           0.5      0.7      0.7      1.0      2.0      4.0     4.0      5.0      2.0      2.0
Swe Parts (% of econ.
veh. Price w   10O0 ke)      0.30    0.25     0.25      0.30    0.15    0.10    0.15    0.15    0.20    0.20
Lifetime Sares Cost (S         36       50      50        96       72       96       75      90       6l      6(
Uorkshoo Labor Hours
(hours/l000hi                 4.0       5        4       5.0      6.0    10.0      8.0      8.0      5.0      5.0
No. of tires titted             4        4       4         4        6        6       6       10        6        6
Average Tire life(OOOs kg)   30.0       30      30      30.0    30.0    55.0    50.0    50.0    30.0    30.0
Vehicle life (years)           10       10       8         8        8       12       10      10        8        8
Capital Recovery Factor(l)  0.163    0.163   0.1W      0.187   0.187   0.147    0.163    0.163   0.187    0.187
Averae amunal km (000)       12.0       20      25      40.0    60.0    80.0    50.0    60.0    40.0    40.0
(1) Assuses o>rortunitv cost of capital of 10 wer cent.
Sources: ColoIbo motor dcaiers, TRRIL and Brazil studies, Consultant's estisates.



Anex 9
-81-                                           Page 22 of 30
TA8LE PA.2-2
1990 VEHICLE OPEPAtL"IG COSTS: UNIT COSTS
(Rts)
HWe!     Lrge
WI1T COSTS- FINANCIAL         Car    4 1    Pikup   Minibus    Bus         Bus  Tru'e.: A  Truck B Truck C  truck 0
_.        ...,.._..-.......... .  ................... ............. 
Nev vehicle less tires     S50000  986000  613000    550000  8ISOM   1220000  78001  200000    58000   610000
Fuel Der liter              20.00     9.85     9.85     20.00    9.85      9.85     9.85     9.85     9.85     9.85
0il oer liter                  28       28       28        28       28       28       28       28       28       28
Tire Icover & tube)          2500    4600    3800        2900     5000    9490    8000   11200    3Q00    S090
Workshot labor per howr      54.0    56.0    54.0        54.0    54.0    5S.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0
Crew wages wr month             0    2028      2028      2376    4362      7860    4620    4620    4180    4180
Insumceper year              2400     3600    3000       3000    6000    6600    6000    6000    6800    4800
Arrual licence fees           500    3000    1200        2500    2760      1950    3000    3000    1200    200M
. Direct overheads Per yewr       0     5000    5000o       5o0    7000    10000    10 l000   100       s0 
Mldium   LUre
UNIT COSTS- ECONOlIIC         Car    4 ID   Pickup   Minibus    Bus        Bus  Truck A  Truck B  Truck C Truk 0
Nov vehicle less tires     270000  542000  490000    385000  650000   980000  625000  1600000  460000  49000D
Fuel Der liter                7.32    6.78     6.78      7.32    6.78      6.78     6.78     6.78    6.78      6.78
Oil oer liter                26.6    26.6    26.6        26.6    26.6    26.6    26.6    26.6    26.6    26.6
Tire (cover & tube)        1450.0  2668.0  220.0   1682.0  2900.0  5504.2  4640.0  6496.0  2262.0  29M0.0
Uor*shoo labor per hour      54.0    54.0    54.0        56.0    54.0    54.0    54.0        5.0    54.0    54.0
Crew  ges  er wnth              0    2028      2028      2376    4362      7860    4620    4620    4180    4180
Insurance oer year           2400    3600    3000        3000    6000    6600    6000    6000    4800    4800
Direct overheads per Yr         0   4807.7  4807.7    4807.7  5769.0  9615.4  9615.4  9615.4  4807.7  4807.7
Sources: Colombo motor dealers, Ceylon Petroleum Cororation, Ceylon Tire Corooration, SLCTB, Private bus W  truck
operators. Registrar of Notor Vehicles. Central Bank of Sri Lwef, Govuent Gazette, Consultant's estimates.



-82-                                                Anne  9
Page 23 of 30
TABLE A.2-3
n1990 WICLE WUTIN6 COSTS PEo 1000 KlLIEIE
(R s per 1000 kilwters)
Iedits Large
flNICIAL                    Car    410   Pidw    inib        Bus     Bus  Tru  A truck S Truck C Truck 0
Fuel I Oil               1614.0  1103.1  100M.6   2628.0  1533.5  2M.5  2870.0  3587.5  1435.0  1U9.0
Tires                     3.3   613.3   506.7    386.7  1000.0  1035.3   960.0  2240.0   780.0  1000.0
Sowe Parts               1174.5  1964.8  1776.3   1674.8  1413.8  1421.0  1359.4  300.0  133.0  1421.0
lMork*o Labor             216.0   270.0   216.0    270.0   324.0   540.0   432.0   432.0   270.0   270.0
Dert,ciation             2750.0  U37.0  2758.5   1546.9  1528.1  1143.8  14.0  1652.   1631.3  1715.6
Interest                 1725.4  2783.8  1377.9    772.7    5.0   870.1   80.9  107.0   814.8   857.0
Crew ses                    0.0  1216.8   973.4    712.8   872.4  1179.0  1108.8   924.0  125.0  1254.0
Insuriace                 166.7   150.0   100.0    100.0    83.3    62.5   100.0    83.3   100.0   100.0
Licence Fees               41.7   150.0     8.0    100.0    46.0    24.4    60.0    50.0    30.0    50.0
Overheads                   0.0   250.0   200.0    125.0   116.7   125.0   200.0   166.7   125.0   125.0
Total cost/lOOD km        01.6 12938.8  8961.4   8316.8  7675.7  9172.5  9375.0 13653.2  777. 1  8621.6
edui   Large
E; 5C                       Car    4 MD  Pi*w   flinihus    Bus      Bus  Truk A  TruS TrUck C  tnick D
Fuel A Oil                598.9   764.4   696.6    978.2  1070.2  1937.0  200M.8  250a.0  1002.4  1273.6
Tires                     193.3   355.7   293.9    224.3   580.0   600.S   556.8  1299.2   452.4   580.0
So-e Parts                810.0  1355.0  1225.0   1155.0   975.0   9.0   937.5  2400.0   920.0   980.0
bork* Ldor                216.0   270.0   216.0    270.0   324.0   540.0   42.0   432.0   270.0   270.0
Deomiation               1350.0  2439.0  2205.0   1082.8  1218.8   918.8  1125.0  24Oi   1295.8  1378.1
Oowt. cost of coital      847.0  1530.2  1101.4    540.9   604.5   698.9   705.8  1505.8   646.3   688.4
Crev taes                   0.0  1216.    973.4    712.8   872.4  1179.0  1108.8   924.0  1254.0  1254.0
nswce                     200.0   180.0   120.0     75.0   100.0    82.5   120.0   100.0   120.0   120.0
Oeheads                     0.0   240.4   192.3    120.2    96.2   1202   192.3   160.3   120.2   120.2
Total cost/ilOWO         4215.2  8351.6  7023.7   5159.2  5841.0  7056.8  713.0 11727.2  4079.0  6464.3
Based an med roa vtit S rou    of 3800 unb. in flat to rollim terrai
Soirce: hrvious Tables



Annex 9
-83-                                             Page 24 of 30
TALE 1A.24
BASIC VEHICLE OEIUIIN6 COSTS, 1990
(Econmic Costs in Rs. wr 1000 kb.)
Tnruks
Sall   fed.   Large
Cost Item         Car    4   Pickw       tus     Bus    Bus        A       t       C       0
Fuel & oil        598.9   764.4   6*.6   978.2  1070.2  1937.0  200M.8  2506.0  1002.4  1273.6
Tires             19.3   355.7   295.9   224.3   580.0   600.5   556.8  129.2  £52.4   S80.0
Sre Parts         810.0  1355.0  1225.0  1155.0   975.0   980.0   937.5  2400.0   920.0   980.0
lorkso Libor      216.0   270.0   216.0   270.0   324.0  50.0   432.0   452.0  270.0   270.0
DOeciation       1350.0  2439.0  2205.0  1082.8  1218.8   918.8  112S.0  2400.0  1295.8  1378.1
OCC               847.0  1530.2  1101.4   540.9  60.5   698.9   705.8  IS0.3   66.3   688.4
Crew  sWe           0.0  1217.0  973.6   712.8   872.3  1179.0  110.8   924.0  1254.0  12I.0
Inswice           200.0   180.0   120.0   75.0   10D.0   82.5   120.0   100.0   120.0   120.0
Overlead            0.0   240.4   192.3   120.2   96.2  1U0.2   192.3   160.3   120.2   120.2
Total            4215.2  8351.8  7023.9  5159.2  S809  7056.8  7183.0 11727.2  6079.0  666.3
Est. *     53.0G   15.8S   31.3t   25.1*   74.9*  100.08   75.7*   24.3*   50.0%   50.0t
Mtd. Avg., Rs/1000 km.     5746                    5670    7057            826             6372
Bae  on aed rod  ith 8I rou0wess of 3800 Wb. in flat to rolline temin.
Swce: owious tables



Ann"x 9
-84-                                            Page 25 of 30
TABLE 4.2-5
C01rARISON Of VOC INDICES FROM DIFFERENT SOURCES
CAR                                                      PICKUP/LIGNT TRUCK
111    (21     151    (4)      (5)    (6)    (7)               (1)     12)    (3)    (t)    15)    t61         (7)
Avg.                                                           Avg.
Roughness                 Uorld                    Avg.   1. 2.                           world                    Avg.   1. 2.
(Misk)     AD8    TSPS    Bt    INDIA HOX III    All    386                ADB    TSPS    Bk    INDIA HI III    All    386
2000    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
3000    1.02    1.06    1.09    1.07    1.03    1.05    1.06           1.01    1.05    1.08    '.03    1.06    1.06    1.06
6000    1.06    1.17    1.19    1.15    1.09    1.13    1.16           1.04    1.13    1.16    1.06    1.12    1.10    1.10
5000    1.11    1.34    1.29    1.22    1.13    1.22    1.24           1.09    1.25    1.26    1.10    1.19    1.17    1.17
6000    1.17    1.54    1.61    1.31    1.19    1.32    1.36           1.14    1.40    1.34    1.13    1.31    1.26    1.25
7000    1.26    1.73    1.53    1.39    1.28    1.$3    1.47           1.19    1.56    1.6    1.17    1.62    1.35    1.33
LARGE BUS                                                     HEAVY TRUMK
(1)    (2)    (3)      (4)    (5)      (6)    (7)              (1)     (2)    (3)      (4)    (5)      (6)    (7)
Avg.                                                           Avg.
Roughness                 Woeld                    Avg.   1, 2,                           World                    Avg.   1, 2.
(mike)     AD8    TSPS    Bat   1MIA HO III    All    3 & *                ADS    TSPS    Byt   INDIA MMf III    All    3 6 6
2000    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
30      1.03    1.07    1.08    1.03    1.04    1.05    1.05           1.02    1.05    1.09    1.03    1.10    1.06    1.05
.000    1.08    1.20    1.16    1.05    1.07    1.11    1.12           1.07    1.12    1.19    1.07    '.18    1.13    1.11
5000    1.14    1.39    1.26    1.08    1.11    1.20    1.22           1.13    1.23    1.29    1.11    1.29    1.21    1.19
6000    1.21    1.56    1.35    1.11    1.14    1.27    1.31           1.19    1.36    1.41    1.16    1.39    1.-0    1.27
7000    1.28    1.68    1.46    1.14    1.20    1.35    1.39           1.25    1.62    1.53    1.21    1.49    1.38    1.35
511. IIEDIJ BUS                                               SELECTED INDICES
(1)    (2)    (3)              (5 1)   (6)     17)
Avg.                           Sall
Rfou ss                    orWld                   Avg.   1, 2,        Ro*ss             I rled.  LUrge   Light   Heavy
(mIke)     AD8    TSPS    But    IIA  NMf III    All    3 5 6          (./1k)      Car    Bus     Bus    Truck   Truck
2000    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00           2000    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
3000    1.01    1.06    1.08    1.03    1.04    1.04    1.04           3000    1.06    1.06    1.05    1.06    1.05
6000    1.06    1.18    1.16    1.05    1.12    1.11    1.11           000    1.16    1.11    1.12    1.10    1.11
5000    1.09    1.35    1.26    1.08    1.19    1.19    1.19           5000    1.24    1.19    1.22    1.17    1.19
6000    1.14    1.51    1.35    1.11    1.31    1.28    1.28           6000    1-36    1.28    1.31    1.25    1.27
7000    1.19    1.61    1.46    1.16    1.62    1.36    1.35           7000    1.47    1.35    1.39    1.33    1.35



-85-
Annex 9
Page 26 of 30
TAELE PA.2-6
VOC RELATED TO ROAD RO(SS
VOC 2000-000 m/ks.
Road Roughnesslyehicle Opewating Cost Indices
--------- -------------------                                               (Rs Per 100 bk)
Car    Small                                                 Car    Small
Roughness   4WD   & Med.   Large   Light   Heavy             Roughness  4tU     & Wed.   Large   Light   Heavy
(rn/km)  Picku      Bus      Bus    truck    Truck           (/ks)  PicktD    Bus         Bus    truck   Truck
2000    1.000    1.000    1.000    1.000   1.000             20O      5112    5173    6381    5856    7546
2400    1.024    1.016    1.020    1.016    1.020            2400    5234    5277    6483    S950    7647
3000   1.060    1.040    1.050    1.040    1.050             3000    5418    5432    6636    6091        7924
3200   1.076    1.95t   1.064    1.052    1.062              3200    5500    5506    6725    6161    8014
380    1.124    1.096    1.106    1.088    1.098             3800    5746    5670    7057    6372    8286
!000   1.140    1.110    1.120    1.100    1.110             4000    5827    5794    7082    6442    8377
4800    1.220    1.174    1.200    1.156    1.174            4800    6236    6208    7491    6770    8860
5000   1.240    1.190   1.220    1.170    1.190              5000    6339    6311    7593    6852    8980
5600    1.288    1.226    1.256    1.202    1.222            5600    6584    6498    7823    7039    9222
6000    1.360    1.280    1.310    1.250    1.270            60ED     6952    6777    8167    7320    9584
7000   1.540    1.350    1.390    1.330    1.350             7000    7872    '191    8614    7789   10188
Source: Table A4.2-5, vith values betmeen even               Soure: Roughness/VOC indices avlied to the
thousand r/ks derived by interolation.                            economic vehicle oeating costs
shon in Table A4.24.



Annex 9
-86-                                                Page 27 of 30
TAE A4.2-7
AuE LOwDS (I)
Truck, 2-Axle
Truck.    ESL
Smll   Rled.   Large    13-T    10-T   6.5-T            Three-  Factor
Swrce   Descriltion          Cu      Van    Bus       u      Bus     Load    Load    Load   Emptr   Axle    (2)
I  At noral lel loads        0    0.01    0.01    0.02    0.67    8.28    3.08    0.98    0.01    1.69
I  Uith 201 overload                              0.02    O.7              6.96    2.16              3.6
1  Aver  vehicle                                   0.02    0.68            3.05    0.96             1.61
1  Veighted by traffic       0   0.001   0.002             0.68                    0.392 ----   0.001   0.379
2  Single vehicle                 0.11             0.04    0.42             -        2.93 ----    24.8
3  Single vehicle                          -        0.24   -                                0.01
3  Utighted by veh loa  (3                                0.337    -- 1.152 -              0.008    2.02
-- 0.235 --
4  RDA Ser, Ratulsu               0.90    0.ao  0.00    0.20    -   0.60 -          0.10    0.10 0.1-1.3
4  RDA Siey, oos                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    -1.00--    0.10    0.00    0.00
6  RMA Swver. KatMed.-Pilnd.   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    -   1.50             0.10    0.00
5  TSPC, loaded vehicle      0       0       0   C.O05    0.6      7.37    2.76    0.38   0.006    2.22
Selected avra          Cr             Small
vehicle type usd       61w           I red.           Lrge             Trck            Truck
in this nlysis,        PU              &us               s             A  S            C & D
aswidng v9. loads.  -                 -                -               -
0.00           0.015            0.40             2.50            0.60            0.408
Notes:                                                                        (6)              (6)
(1  neasu-ed in eouwlvalent stadrd ODk  (18,000 i bt) sinele axle loads (ESM). ES a (axle load in k1/8160V4.55.
(2)  Usinm an a        cvra u 0Atry-vi* traffic mdx, ESL/Laieller s ADT x E  factor x 3651;.
(3)  This sowce  aes aile load vill sta ebout th se over the design life of the rue.
(6)  Based onorotionso  truck A   , and C &, sho minSorcel, D. 6-5.
1. Louis Bersg  Int. et. al., Trmot Sctor Plaug Sti, 1988, Vol. 6, op. 8-23 to 8-29, & 9-23. Using oower factor
t.55. Not based an a sweif itc aw.
2. Scott lilson Kirhtick et. ei., Tr,m*t rads  inteumwce Project, 1985, p. 78. Pwer factor 6.55.  fe-site srveY at
dAulla (A6 & AQ9; wihed 396 vehiles.
3. OWV et. cl.. A SSed  broblurwent ufroject, 1987, Co. 3-26 to 3-33, & 3-U to 3-. Srye of 6 sites; weighe
850 vhicles.
*. RDA ale load sns at btml  (kU*e Ad. la. 9) on 19 Feb. 88 (1679 veicles); Boos (km. 109) on 15 Seot. 87 (729
vehicles) ond on tte KtlediaPiliyndla Ad. (321 vehicles). The sPle incluied only 15 trutcs ith 3 or more axles
so Is nMt  nclusiw in tW  ru.
5. TrsC: theretical axle loa  for vwou  vehicles boad on foAl ESA x (axle load in kg/816011.55, as sholn on the
folloeig ge.
(Table AI.2-7 continwed on next oage



-87-                                                    Annex 9
Page 28 of 30
Table MA.2-7 (contlied)
TSPC Estmetes
Est. Avg. Load
Distribution (I)
Axle I           Axle 2           Axle 3
GW     Axle I  Axle 2  Axle 3                      ----------                        Total
(kg.)     (t)      (S)     (t)    (kg)    ESA       (kg)    ESA      (kg)    ESA       ESA
Loaded linibus       1800      52%    4*8               936   0.000       864   0.000        0   0.000   0.000
Loaded heaiut Bus    4160      a0t      60%            1664   0.001    2196   0.005          0   0.000   O.00S
Loaded lg  Bus    11000        40%      60%            U400   0.060    6600   0.381          0   0.00C   O.U4
Loaded Truck A      12500      32%      68%            1000   0.039    8500   1.204          0   0.000   1.213
Loaded Truck B      21400      23%      37%      10%   1922   0.100    7918   0.872    8560   1.243   2.216
Leaded Truck C       110       47%      53%            2068   0.002    2332   0.003          0   0.000   0.005
Loaded Truck 0       700D      32%      68%            2240   0.003    4760   0.086          0   0.000    0 009
Emty Truck A         1500      53i      17%            2385   0.004    2115   0.002          0   O.OW    0.006
Truck, 13-ton load  18000      30%      70%            5400   0.153   12600   7.219          0   0.000   7.372
Truck, 10-ton load  140        30%      70%            1350   0.057    10150   2.699         0   0.000   2.756
truck, 6.5-ton Id.  IO0        35%      6S             3500   0.021    6500   0.355          0   0.0   0.377
(ESA: (axle load in kg/8160] 4.55)
()    ad on a smle frea the RDA xile load irvey (Source 4).
gzm  i    _  _                          S .=:====w              m:::ZuZgaZ



Annex 9
Page 29 of 30
TALE A&.2-8
ROAD RWUHI(SS MEASUREMIENTS AND ESTIIIATES
GRrYJ I
RDA CE
1.1 A. C. OVERLAYS (AC)                                                         Rough- Dec.89   T5C   RDA Est.    Est.
-- -------------                                            Meas-                ness  Rough-   Roug-  1990    10
ured     Date of  Prog.1 Inss         ness   Rough-  Rough-
Project                                            Lergth  Rough-    leasure-   Year    Per         Est.    mess    ness
NUmber              Road Lirk                       (Km)    ness        atnt   (mm/ke)   Prog.  IDec. 89) (k/k)  (m"/k)
(1)     (2)         (3)      (4)      (5)      16A1     (7)     (8)
1-1 AC    noratuwa - Kalutara (Km. 1945)             28.0    3150    10.06.88       300     3600        3600  QO00       S
1-2 AC    Kalutara - Ambalangoda (Xs. 46-85)         60.0    3600   08.02.88        300    4175      S900    3900        S
1-3 AC    Ablangoda - Galle (Km. 86-119)             33.0    2950   08.02.88        300    3525    34OO    3700          S
1.2 REGIJATIW3 CMRSE (RC)
14 RC     Katunayake - Vevanoda - NittWxa            26.0    463    05.10.88        200      880             5200        S
i-3 RC    ToPDU - Dankotuw  - Giriulla               32.0    4500    06.10.88       200    4750    4750    SOO0          S
16 RC    Biyanvila - Ganemulla                        8.6    5500    13.10.88       200    5750               5500       S
I-7 RC    Seedw   - Udumoola                         12.0    5250   06.10.88       2M0      5480    5000    5250         S
1-8 RC    flatara - Hakdana                          24.0    5380    28.09.88       200    5630               400        5
Notes
Colum  4: the roughnss orowession  er Year.is basd on the values shwm in Awmndix 10.1. Table 2:
roads vith traffic ) 3000 ADT * 300 emlkyr.; trattic (z 3000  200 nlalyr. (an xroximately).
Colun 5: rougMhess estiated on basis of sesaued roughess (Col'nn 2) and estimted  wrogression (Colmu  ).
Column 6A: rough estimtes basd on brief visual inspectioms carried out in Deceder 1989.
Colum 7: roughess ferecast for 1990  ade by RDA.
Colun 8: results of review by the fA Coordinating Eineer (S  Sae as Colum 5 I/or 7).
(Table M.2-8 contiued on next  mge



-89-
Annex 9
TA8£ A4.2-8 (Continued)                                    Page  30  of  30
ERD CE
Rough- Dec.89          RDA Est.   Est.
2.1  A. C. OVERLAYS (AC)                                   Meas-               ness  Rough-             1990    1990
----------- - --------- -                                  ured      Date of  Prog./  ness      RDA-   ROUgh-  Roug-
Project                                           Length  Rough-   fleaswre-   Year    Per  Measw        ness    ness
amber               Road Link                      (Ke)    ness       nent   (m/ik)  Po.  Nov. 89  (m/kml  (u/ku)
.. .. _ .. .  . _...........____________
(1)     (2)         (3)     (4)      (5)      (68)    (7)      (8)
11-1 AC    alle - tiatara (Km. 118-162)           44.0    3910   08.02.88       200    Q290              4500       S
11-2 AC  Kadila -  uIunella                       12.5    5830   01.10.88       300    635S              5830
11-3 AC  Peliyasoda - Kadavtha                     8.0    3350   12.10.88       30      3875             4000
11-I AC  Dehivela - flaharagama (8)                7.6    4960   03.10.88       300    5485              5800
tt-5 AC  St. Jne.)h Street (8)                     2.8    5080   05.10.88       300    5605    5060    6300
11-6 AC  Navinna - Mlirihana                       3.4    5380   03.10.88       300    5905              6300
11-7 AC  Hnwitiya-lattalt-Hmdala (B)               4.0    5350   01.10.88       300    5875              5350
11-8 AC  Chillav Road                              1.3    5260   05.10.88       300    5785    5120    6300
11-9 AC  Katubedda - Piliyandala Road (B)          4.7    6010   03. 10.88      30      6535             6300
2.2 RECIJLATING COURSE (RC)
11-10 RC  Metara - Dickwella ((m. 163-1831         21.0    5070   01.10.88       200    5300              5200    530
11-11 RC  Dickwella - Hambantota (Kn. 183-241)
(Km. 183-220)                        38.0                                                   52C1
(Km. 221-241)                        21.0                                                  5200
Totals, Km. 183-241               59.0    4700   26.03.88       200    5050              5200    5
11-12 RC  latara - Akuressa                        21.0    5070   01.10.88       200    5320              5200
11-13 RC  Uattala - latra Road (B)                  7.2    5970   12.10.88       200    6220      820    5970        S
11-14 RC  Negombo - Giriulla                        1.6    5100   05.10.88       200    5350    4700    5200
11-15 RC  Hantota - Uelaraa (Ke. 240-322)         82.0    4700   13.06.88       200    50W               700    6000
11-16 RC  Beliatta - Tangalla                       6.5    5200   26.03.88       200    5550              5200       S
11-17 RC  Kirindiwita - Ganeeulla                   3.0    5200   13.10.88       200    5450              5200
II-18 RC   1swnaya - Pnipitiya          .           6.0    5700   20.10.88       200    5930              5700
Notes
Column 4: the roughness Drogression war Year is based on the values shon in AvpeDaix 10.1, Table 2:
roads vith traffic ) 3000 AOt: 300 0/ka/yr.: traffic (: 3000: 200 .lkm/yr. (avroximately).
Coluw 5: r*tess estinated on basis ot neasured rou*ress (Column 21 and estimted wroression (Colm 41.
Colum 68:  eassremts carried out by RDA in November £989.
Colun 7: roughness forecast for 1990 made by RDA.
Colm  8: results of revie by the RDA Coordirating Engineer (S  Se as Column 5 3/or 7).



-90-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
SRYE LABIA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documnts and Data Available in the Project File
A.   SZLECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES OF THE SECTOR OR SUBSECTOR
Al -  Transport Statistics (Sri Lanka), 1988
Prepared by: Transport Studies and Planning Centre, Inter-Ministerial
Committee for Coordination and Planning of Transport
A2 - Standard Specifications for Construction and Maintenance of Roads
and Bridges, 1989
Prepared by: Rvad Development Authority, Ministry of Highways
A3 - Second Road Improvement Project, TA No. 792-SRI, July 1987, Phase
I Final Report
Prepared by: DHV Consulting Engineers, The Netherlands (in
association with Resources Development Consultants Ltd, Sri Lanka)
A4 -  Engineering Services Report--Management Aspects, April 20, 1990
r-repared bys International Engineering Consultants Association
(Japan), in association with Resources Development Consultants
Limited, Sri Lanka, sponsored by the Overseas Economic Co-Operation
and Road Development Authority
D.    SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO PROJECT
B1 -  Draft Feasibility Report, April 1990
Prepared by: Road Development Authority
B2 -  Engineering Design Report, Volume 1, February 1990
Prepared by: Asphaltin (Pvt) Ltd., Sri Lanka
Package 02: Colombo-Galle Road (Km 68 to Km 120)
Printouts giving: existing and designed centreline levels, designed
crossfalls, designed edge elevations and designed carriageway widths
at each cross section, February 1990
Package 02t Colombo-Galle Road (Km 68 to KM 120)
Printouts giving; (a) asphalt wearing couzse; (b) bituminous bound
regulating course; (c) aggregate course for edge widening,
Feburary 1990



-91-
A* ex 10
Page 2 of 2
B3 - Repor   Concerning Institutional and Project Mnag8ement Issues,
November 30, 1989
Prepared byt M. Dalton, Consultant
84 - Appraisal Mission of the Export-Import Bank of Korea (Government
Agency for the EDCF), Minutes of Discussions, May 8, 1990
B5 -   Detailed Economic Evaluation Worksheets  (computer print-outs,
including diskettes)
C.    SELCTED WORKING PAPERS, T      SBLES, DRAWINGS AND IAPS
Cl - Road Development Authority, Approved Cadre - February 1990
C2 -  Draft Corporate Plan, 1989-1993, Road Development Authority
C3 - Passenter and Freight Traffic - Sri Lanka Government Railway
(RDA/ES/T/TRS), May 3, 1990
C4 -  Road Roughness Data on Kandy-Jaffna Road and Colombo-Horana Road
(RDA/ES/TIWB III), April 26, 1990
CS -  Bump Integrator Result Sheet, May 4, 1990
Road Development Authority
C6 - Project Cost Table Details (computer print-outs, including diskettes)
C7 - Patching of Pot Holes Using Premix
C8 - Public Investment Programue - 1990 to 1994, April 2, 1990
C9  - Road Mileage Table - 1978
C10 - Pavement Rehabilitation Operations
Cll - Passenger and Freight Traffic Statistics, 197S - 1988
C12 - Construction, Improvements and Maintenance of Highways, Bridges,
Causways, Culverts and Airfields
C13 - Government Capital Expenditure, 1988-1992
Government Capital Expenditure, 1989-1993
Economic Overheads
C14 - Packages 1 and 4: Pavement Design, Construction Costs and Bills of
Quantity. Pavement Evaluation Data Sheet
Prepared by: Engineering Consultants, Ltd., Colcabo, Sri Lanka



-92-
Table 1.1
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Passanger and Freight Traffic
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982     1983      1984     198:      1986     1987      1988
A. Passenger Traffic
(Billion Passenger-Km)
Railways    a/      3.7       4.1      3.8       3.0      3.1      2.5       2.3      2.1       2.0      2.0      1.8
SLCTB/RTBs         20.4      22.2     22.7      18.5     18.7     16.3      15.6     14.5      15.1     16.0     15.4
Private Buses         0       0.6      2.6      6.9       9.4     13.3      13.6     14.0     14.2      14.4     14.5
Private Cars        1.3       1.2      1.0       1.0      1.7      2.0       2.2      2.4      2.6       2.8      3.1
25.4     28.1     30.1      29.4     32.9     34.7      33.7     33.0      33.9     35.2     34.8
B. Freight Traffic
(Million Ton-Kms)
Railways          280.6    279.7    206.3    218.8    216.8    223.8    262.6    231.9    204.0    195.0    176.0
Roads             ,90.0    588.0    761.0    805.0    873.0    884.0    920.0    919.0    932.0    948.0    954.0
870.6    947.7   967.3  1,023.8  1,089.8  1,107.8  1,182.6  1,150.9  1,136.0  1,143.0  1,130.0
a/ The drop in passenger-kss from 1983 was mainly due to the curtailment
of long-distance services to the North and East.



SRI LAWA
TMIl RODAS PRDJWr
Voheil. Realstrationr by Cla. -t V.h,l.
SD           lof9             1982           166             1969           1low            19"6           1967             196
v*hlm              lb.    S      ii". I           MD.            No.             "D.     S      NO.     S       NO.     S      N.      S         . 
lbS.' Care       110,678  6.5   126,266 84.01  11,1r6  32.'S   8,68s  81.43  141,780 29.91  1406.67 28.61  185,24 27.5   147,88? 26.39  149,00D * 25.43
Sbtorcyclee       79,606 25.91    96,61 26.11  107,543 2B.95  121,840 27.91  138,2  29.2S  161,878 831.01   17,717 38.2S  21,441 86.51  226,100   8 6.51
Due"              907,82  6.25    2,092  6.26   26,172  6.83   s0.439  7.01   84,661  7.SS   s8,809  7.45   40,214  7.15   87,064  6. SS    6.600 * 0     .S 3
Trudk.             s,es  16.73    63.479  1.1S   69.706 17.43   77.714 17.65   85.701 18.11   92,780 17.31   95,580 16.91   92.968 15.95   79,400 * 18.31
Trecr-Traile r     1,245  0.43     1,246  0.8s    1,248  0.35    1,2S2  0.31    1,252  O.81    1,258  0.26    1,2t8  0.25    1.253  0.2S    1,100 *  0.25
Subtotal    276,811 e8.83   810,924 88.61  86,827 84.26  860.097 84.41  401,996 64.71  442,252 65.01  479,968 64.9e  492,62  84.41  492.400 * 63.95
Othr Veh;clee as
Emrgfecy Vehecice    967  0.31     1,78  0.81    1,117  0.31    1,148  0.81    1,179  0.25    2,828  0.4S    6,259  1.1i    9,566  1.61   11,170    1.91
Lad  Tractors     87.s88  11.25    40,681 11.01   48,8s8  10.91   47,616 10.91   51,278 10.86   54,8816 10.31   58.080 10.31   s9,990  10.318   6,936   10.41
Land TraPlero     17,206  S 1S    18.145  4.91   18.646  4.71   19.887  4.41   20.07s  4.26   20.618  4.01   21.195  3.71   21, 25  3.73   22,045    3.61
____  ______   ................... _   ....__ __ ___  ________
Subtotal     88,783 16.71    59,904 16.21   68,802 15.83   68,121  15.61   72,582 15.81   77,797 15.01   6S,484 15.1S   91,3838 15.6S   94,151   16.13
TO" a            8s4,24 100.021   70,628 100.01  399,629 100.01  4SF.218 100.0  474,52B 100.01  520,049 100.01  *505,452 100 -%  584,006 100.01  5866,51  100.01
n        -         _      -       -      -        -      -       _      -        -      -       -   -           -      -_      -       -_%
*  The fircrer are corrected to includ de-registratiooe.
*e  Fi;r cginie, dbulancee, hearan., etc.
Source: Department af Registration of Motor Vehicles.



bu  i9ue t_ . tP    euiJurlrdtt it_ mu ttu   i   Tim
Psuwlegs         z       R.O.A.                        tCumi Is              Lust Om.mstt                          dsssbes             7To. bus (ta )        *              8
I__mw     teoul    Pk"d      UPSO"d    ToW       hp    _    M        Total  _uvod  _aved    Totl    PTtd    thtW_               Tot TI     T      PW
t_ra            1,464.48   Nitl    1,44.48  1,si.04   8.U1   1,9i6.19   2,=.*.  8,892.84  7.963.         78854  1.526.   1,664.7?  81181.0   7.818.2"  13.067.23   13.65    s.6
i' t.l          1.412.    Mil    1412.t32   1.95.49   579.74  2.i.il        66.5t4  2.60.61  S.8l.4f    97.87  4..71  e           I  42.W.t  7,245.06 12,173.74   12.0    5.
_d.             1,146.tl8  t1til #GI    1146.m8   l.7    608t.08  1,766.48  76.t6  4.317.80  5.4.10        8.47    419.08      '     *.U4.U1   5,60.     6.743.74    9.27    8.3i
_               Z,*9b.,  £.27.40   mit    2.87.60  1.M.,i   74.47  2,611.8    1.67.64   9.041.40 1o."844 6".Yi  2.18.25  2.11.    87.  1196.t2  17.M.04   1s.73    S.A
Ib..*jV.uta4.s    1.M.n   tti    1.M2.8   1.84.84   41.70  2.08.81    37.1111, ll.18.   11.444.28         64."    864.06      WA.S  2,9I.47  12.151.13 15,124.60   16.08    *.15    It
mm ds Cgstgml     512.40   NFit     62.40  1.210.29   M5.?  1,745.96        71.08  8,ne 6.79  8,707.3    11V.91   4J.2.4    84.92  2,271.6  9,60.47  11,1176.10   12.5       2.41
UVA               92.9t    Nil      97.1  1,062.77   489.0   1,802.43     287.7   1,894.40  I.63.88    95.19  2.18.40  S,1.9  8,8.60  492.06   7,376.46    7.32    S6.8
_      _bonuoous  1,041.97    ;I    1,041.97    664.64   277.06  1,142.70  748.61  2.34.28   2.96,.01    m.9L  2,7M0.42  3.114.4*  8.04.818  S.291       6,29.11    6.79    $.15
_  _  _  _  _   _          _        _         _         _         _         _       _ _    _ _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------ - ----- _
7Tom$          10,442.42   Nil   10,442.42 10,79t4.77 4,66.73 18,861.80   7,.00.24 48,t.52  82,s248.s7 2,506.14  18,66.40 16,5.74  O,76M2.37 63,600.26 *4.888.42  100.00  a2.89
ulizad               jau" lus  .s   os  o"u u aWt rad
Sri Luoks Platuties       lop
For." tStXea D_r
Itm_ti  Authewity 4 La_d Cmisuio.e Daer-taut
tBut Mbm rcod hi ImOruaot  Oft_e11  Dtwritr (409.87)  d Ltu Cmamisiomer'* Domrt.ut
he  nw* bour io lot Ow abovr teolosi_., *lec. thi Iuroeu*ioa 1c -ot svai lAble an a
Pravi*cial Imeim. lbs tout 1 ileoutesg sips ofeuds vaur- thmese e oresrnlst,os s amst
to ,2.8g7 ba.
Sgrti:   MA, Trtffic sd Pl_arltt  Dhitlett, FPbrwry 1"0.



Table 2.2
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADs PROJECT
Public Investment in Transuort (1981-1993)
(a) Total Investments
Z Change
Yar 1981-85 1982-86 1984-88 1985-89 1986-90 1988-92 1989-93 1988192-
Transpor   --------------------- (In current Re million) ------------------ 1989/93
Highways         1,069   3,395   2,741   4,965   4,294    9,203   10.140    10.2
vailways         1,683    1,201   2,762   5,191    5,329    9,675   8,971    -7.3
SLCTB/Rd.Tr.     1.402    1,136        0       54        7      596   1,899   218.6
Ports &
Shipping          695      687   1,170   1,076        712      758   3,644   380.7
Air
Transport          520    1,276    3,750   4,004   2,207    2,680    1,257   -53.1
---------_----------------_-----------------------------------_-__----------__--------
TOTAL          5,369    7,695  10,423   15,290   12,549   22,912  25.911    13.1
_--__________________________________________________________________________________
Total PIP       89,579  115,295  106,307  155,284  134,416  165,024  146,010   -11.5
_____---- ___________-- ___________________________________-- ________________- _  _______
Transport as I of
Total PIP          6.0      6.7      9.8      9.8      9.3    13.9    17.7
(b) Percentage Distribution
\ Year  1981-85 1982-86  1984-88  1985-89  1986-90  1988-92 1989-93
Trransport                                            -
Mode
Highways          19.9    44.1    26.3       32.5    34.2    40.2    39.1
Railways          31.3     15.6    26.5    33.9    42.5    42.2    34.6
SLCTB/Rd.Tr.      26.1     14.8      0.0      0.4      0.1      2.6      7.3
Ports &
Shipping         12.9      8.9    11.2       7.0      5.7      3.3    14.1
Air
Transport         9.7    16.6    36.0    26.2        17.6    11.7       4.9
TOTAL          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Sources  Public Investment (1981-85; 1982-86; 1984-8e; 1985-89; 3 6-90;
1988-92; 1989-93), National Planning Division, Ministry I Pinance
and Planning, Colombo, Sri Lanka.



SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Provisions/Expenditures on Roads
(SL Rs Million)
Year       1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985    1986            1987    1988       19B9
------------------------------------------------------------------- _--------__----------------------------------
Network  24.767  25,150 25,150 25,150 25,150 25.466 25,457  25,476  25.523   25,634  25.679   25,679
General                Budgeted    3.1    5.4    6.8    0.8    0.9    1.8    1.3    2.3            3.0      13.3      6.7      8.8
Admini stration        ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Actual      3.6    5.1    0.7    0.8    1.1    1.7    1.2    2.3            2.9      9.7      3.9       N/A
Maintenance of         Budgeted   56.0   81.6   95.2  140.0  154.1  172.6  179.5  416.0   350.5    260.0   260.0    260.0
roads,   bridges       -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
and culverts           Actual      70.0   97.8  122.0  134.3  153.6  176.2  370.4  116.1   219.1    246.7   224.8    260.0
Rehabilitation and     Budgeted   53.0  142.5  367.2  259.0  255.5  225.0  221.0  671.0   663.1    940.0   895.0  2,592.9
improvements of        ------------__--_________________________________________________-__________________________-_-__
capital assets         Actual    102.0  255.3  407.4  215.4  235.0  202.4  502.5  678.6   876.2    784.1   650.2  1,014.8
TOTAL                  Budgeted   112.1  229.5  469.2  399.8  410.5  299.4  401.8 1,089.3  1,016.6  1,200.0  1,161.7  2,861.7
------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__----------------------_-----------
Actual    175.6  358.2  530.8  350.5  389.9  280.7  874.1  797.0 1,098.2  1,040.5   878.9  1,274.8 a/
a/ Under-expenditure is due to delay in procurement of equipment financed by OECF.
NOTES: - General Adcinistration: Includes RDA and Ministry provision and expenditures
- Maintenance: includes recurrent provisions and expenditures for roads, bridges, culverts. causeways. etc.
- Rehabilitation/Improvement of Capital Assets: includes foreign-funded projects, i.e., construction, additions
to and 1mprovements of roads, bridges, structures, buildings and acquisition of plant and equipment.
SA r
Source: Road Developmet Authority, April 11990                                                                                                     0
t-



Table 2.4
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Road Develoiment Authority - Proposed Five-Year Expenditures
(SL Rs Million)
TOTAL - 1990-1994
Activity Type              1990     1991      1992     1993     1994                            Foreign
Total    GOSL        Aid
Preventative Maintenance           148.0    210.0    450.0    300.0    330.0          1,438.0  1,438.0       0.0
Repairs of Flood Damage             50.0      75.0     85.0     95.0    100.0           405.0    405.0       0.0
Surveys. Investigations and         12.0     27.4      15.0     15.0      15.0           84.4      61.4     23.0
Research and Developo.it 1/
Rehabilitation/Improvement:  2/
Roads/Pavements                1,127.6  1,117.0  1,606.5  1,431.5  1,381.5          6,664.1  2,494.1  4,170.0
Bridges                           29.0    137.5    220.0    245.0    220.0            851.5    851.5       0.0
New Capital Works 3/               525.0    288.0    152.0    800.0    360.0          2,125.0    647.5  1,477.5
Equipment 4/                       578.5  3,448.0    593.0    279.G        0.0        4,898.5  1,488.5  3,410.0
TOTAL                            2,470.1  5,302.9  3,121.5  3,165.5  2,406.5         16,466.5  7,386.0  9,080.5
1/ Includes surveys, investigations, feasibility studies and setting up of database
pavement/bridge maintenance management system.
2/ Includes IDA and ACB-financed road sections and associated structures.
3/ Includes proposed "Katunayake Expressway" and New Victoria and Kelani Bridges.
4/ Includes equipment to be procured under OECF program.
Source: Road Development Authority, April 1990



-98-
Table 3.1
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation Proare.
Length   Rw*gwmns   MODT  0b  crIpti1n        Contract
No.   Name of Road Link          Km     tM/I I/       2/    of Vork  3/        Package
1.    loratuwa-Kalutara           28.0      4.000     7.303       R+A          VB/3/1
2.    Kaiutara-Amabalangoda  *    40.0      3,900     2.678       R+A            B/3/1
3.    Anabalangoda-Galle     *    33.0      3.700     3.644       RM            VB/3/1
4.    Katunayake-Nittambuwa  *    26.0      5.200     2.299         A           3S/3/2
5.    Toppu-Giriulla              32.0      5,000     1,966        R            W3/3/2
6.    81yanw1la-6anemulla    *     8.6      5.500     1.609        R            V/3/2
7.   Seeduwa-UIdugampola     *    12 0      5.250     1.064        R            VB/3/2
8.    Natara-HaJmna          *    24.0      5.400     2,374        R            W3/3/3
S.    Galle-Natara                44.0      4.500     1,906       RA            VB/3/3
10.    Kaduwella-H.nvella          12.5      5.830     2.782       R+A           VB/3/5
11.    Pellyagoda-Kadawatha         8.0      4,000    22,861       R+A          V3/3/5
12.    Dehlvala-Nahragapa           7.6      5.800     3,662       RA            V3/3/S
13.    St. Joseph St. Negambo       2.8      6,300     7.138      RlA            V3/3/2
14.    Navinna-Nir1hana             3.4      6,300     2,896      RlA            V3/3/5
15.    Hunupit1ya-Hendala           4.0      5,350     3.570      RlA            VB/3/5
16.   Chillaw Road                  1.3      5.350     5.740       R+lA         3/3/2
17.    Katubedda-P111yandala        4.7      6.300     2.301      RlA           3/3/5
18.   Natara-Dickwella             21.0      5.200     1.595        R            VB/3/4
19.   Dickwella-Hembantota         59.0      5.200     1.347        R           3/3/4
20.   Natara-Akuressa              21.0      5.200     1.072         R           V3/3/3
21.   Vattala-lahara                7.2      5.970     1.594         R           V/3/5
22.   Negaubo-6ir1ulla              1.6      5.200     2.062         R            I/3/2
23.   Beliatta-Tangalla             6.5      5.200       814        R            V/3/4
24.   Klrlndlwlta1-G     alla      3.0      5.200     1.120         a           3/3/5
25.    Isurupaya-Pann1ipitya        6.0      5,700     1.747        R              W/3/5
* a Design completed
Notes: 1. As at end of 1989. Rounded to netrast 10.
2. As at end of 1989.
3. RlA - Regulating course plus asphalt wearing course.
R * Regulating/sealing course only.
Sou.ce:  RDA Fasibility Study. April 1990. Noratuwa University ad TSPC.



-99-
,Table 3.2
SRI
THIRD     ROJECT
Brlidg Ibhab1ltat1on Prosra
Rehb1il-          Bridge Dimesions
Bridge titton    --C-----------------------------    ontract
l0.    Nm  of Road Link           No.   Vorks         Length             width        Packal
1.     Noroatgmm-Klutres        aone
2.     Kalutara-AbAlangods   45/5           a    16.0 * I x 16.0   7.4 x 2 x 1.5   V3/3/2
51/1        A    4S.0 a 2 x 23.0   7.4 x 2 x 2.0   II13121
3.     hbala*wods-6ale          5/4          R    33.0 a 3 s 11.0   7.4 x 2 x Z.0   11/3122
56/2        V      8.0  2 x 4.0    7.4 x 2 x l.S    3/3/28
4.     Katunayake-Nlttuha        6/1 *     vh0    7.0    I   7 7.0   7.4 x 2 x 1.2    1/3/29
11/1       V+0   22.0 : x 11.0   7.4 x 2 x 1.2   3/3/29
13/1 *     V1+0    4.5 a   x 4.4   7.4 x 2 x1.2   110/3/29
1/1 ^      R    32.0 a 2 x 16.0   7.4 a 2 x 2.0   3l/3/23
S.     Tepou-1iriulla           NOne
6.     Blyala-Sa_1lla         1o
7.     Sadwa-Udgapola           None
S.     Natara-HdNmane            6/8       VO    13.0 a I x 13.0   6.8 a 2 x 1.2   3/3/29
6           R      S.0  a I x S.0   6.8 x 2 x 1.2   30/3/2S
1311        R      4.0 a 1 x 4.0   6.8 x 2 x 1.2  3V3/25
9.     Galle.lata-a             94/2 *       a     7.0 * I x  7.0   7.4 x 2 x 1.5   I/3/24
94/1 *      R     16.0 a I x lS.0   7.4 x 2 x l.S
10.     Kadumlla-Hamwella        NO1
I1.     Pei tygoda-Kadtha    Name
12.     Daht la         r        None
13.     St. Joseph St. Nemo   None
14.     Nevinna-H1riham          Nne
15.     uwtwitlya-liandal         2/2       V.0   16.0 a 2 x 8.0   7.4 x 2 x 2.0   3/3/29
I.     Chllaw Road              Nmne
17.     Katubdds-Piliyandla   Ne
1J.     Natra-Dckwella           112/1       R     16.0 a I t 16.0   7.4 X 2 x 1.2   3/3/25
19.     Dickmella-limbntota    116/3        V.0    5.2 * I x 5.2   7.4 x 2 x 1.2   H/3129
119/1       R    26.0 - 2 x 13.0   7.4 x 2 x 1.2   3/3126
121/3      V+O     6.r-1X  6.?    ?.4x2x1.2    3/3/29
144/2      V.      4.6 * I x 4.8   7.4 x 2 x 1.2   1/3/29
20.       tar-Aurwr                8/5      5h      7.0 * 1x   7.0   6.8 x 2 x 1.2   3S/3/24
21.     Vattala-Nhera              4/2       R    14.0 a I x 14.0   7.4 x 2 x 1.2   V5/3/27
22.     Nawbo-61rtulla           none
23.     Usitatta-Tnwil           Nne
24.     Kirindlwita-anualls        1/3       0    16.0 a I x 16.0   5.5 x 2 x 1.0   3O/3/29
25.      Iurupaya-Pannpltiya   Ne
26.     HmAhentota-Wslaaya       IS/2        V      4.4 *I x 4.4    6.8 x 2 x 1.2   31/3/29
163/3       V      4.0  a I x 4.0   6.8 x 2 x 1.2   W/3/29
* D Dsip cxlet.d
Iote:   1. R - Reconstrtcion. V a Widening. 0 * Redcking.
2. Cade for  id,e Dumistons:
Length: Total length (a) * No. of span x length of ech sp.
Vidth: Width of carriagway (a) x No. of foeotays time width of footways (a)
_arioe:  _ed   vl_ t Re    lr1ty



-100-
Table 3.3
SRI LANKA
THRD ROADS Pk,. FfCT
Cost of Vehicles and Eauiuaent
Estimated
Cost
Item                   Quantlty                SLRs
1600 cc Saloon Car with A/c                   3                 3,500,000
Microcomputer                                  3                  750,000
Photocopy machine with collating/
report production facilities                 1                  350,000
Electronic typewriter with
interface facility                          2                   300,000
Trip meter and Macintosh prcbe                 1                  300,000
(for investigations)
Office equipment and stationery for PMNU                          500,000
Survey equipment (complete set)
to be used by Highway Design Section
and by PMMU staff for checking purposes      1                1,000,000
TOTAL                                                           6,700,000



-101-
TABLE 3.4
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS FOR ROADS
Taxes
Package         Road Section         Length                     Costs                      Foreign      &
No.                                                SLRs m                 US$ m          Element  Duties
km   Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total           %        %
WB/3/1  Moratuwa-Kalutara              28.0   57.2   79.0  136.3   1.43    1.98   3.41    58.0%   15.3%
Kalutara-Ambalangoda          40.0   81.8  112.9  194.6   2.04   2.82   4.87    58.0%   15.3%
Ambalangoda-Galle             33.0   67.4   93.1  160.6   1.69   2.33   4.01    58.0%   15.3%
Total Base Costs           101.0  206.4  285.1  491.5   5.16   7.13  12.29   58.0%   15.3%
Physical Contingencies                10.3   14.3   24.6   0.26   0.36   0.61    58.0%   15.3%
Price Contingencies                   46.6   84.6  131.2   0.25   0.78   1.02    64.5%   15.3%
Total Civil Works                  263.3  383.9  647.3   5.66   8.26  13.92    59.3%   15.3%
WE/3/2  Katunayake-Nittambuwa          26.0   34.7   47.9   82.6   0.87    1.20   2.06   58.0%   15.3%
Toppu-Dankotuwa-Giriulla    32.0   42.7   59.0  101.7   1.07    1.47   2.54    58.0%   15.3%
Biyanwila-Ganemulla            8.6   11.5   15.8   27.3   0.29   0.40   0.68    58.0%   15.3%
Seeduwa-Udugampola            12.0   16.0   22.1   38.1   0.40   0.55   0.95    58.0%   15.3%
Negombo Township                1.6    2.1    2.9    5.1   0.05   0.07   0.13    58.0%   15.3%
St. Joseph St, Negombo         2.3    3.7    5.2    8.9   0.09   0.13   0.22   58.0%   15,3%
Chilaw Rd, Negombo             1.3    1.7    2.4    4.1   0.04   0.06   0.10   58.0%   15.3%
Total Base Costs            84.3  112.5  155.?  267.8   2.81    3.88   6.70   58.0%   15.3%
Physical Contingencies                 6.0    8.3   14.3   0.15   0.21   0.36    58.0%   15.3%
Price Contingencies                   37.1   61.3   98.4   0.33   0.66   0.99   62.3%   15.3%
Total Civil Works                  155.6  224.9  380.5   3.29   4.75   8.04    59.1%   15.3%
WB/3/3  Galie-Matara                   44.0   94.1  129.9  224.0   2.35   3.25   5.60   58.0%   15.3%
Matara-Akuressa               21.0   30.1   41.6   71.7   0.75   1.04   1.79   58.0%   15.3%
Matara-Hakmana                24.0   35.1   48.5   83.6   0.88   1.21   2.09   58.0%   15.3%
Total Base Costs            89.0  159.3  220.0  379.3   3.98   5.50   9.48   58.0%   15.3%
Physical Contingencies                13.8   19.0   32.8   0.34   0.48   0.82    58.0%   15.3%
Price Contingencies                   72.2  112.9  185.2   0.83   1.41   2.24    61.0%   15.3%
Total Civil Works                  245.3  352.0  597.2   5.16   7.38  12.54   58.9%   15.3%
WB/3/4  Matara-Dickwella               21.0   31.7   43.8   75.6   0.79   1.10   1.89   58.0%   15.3%
Dickwella-Rambantota          59.0   89.2  123.2  212.3   2.23   3.08   5.31    58.0%   15.3%
Beliatta-Tangalla              6.5    8.8   12.2   21.0   0.22   0.30   0.52    58.0%   15.3%
Total Base Costs            86.5  129.7  179.1  308.9   3.24   4.48   7.72   58.0%   15.3%
Physical Contingencies                13.0   17.9   30.9   0.32   0.45   0.77   58,0%   15.3%
Pr ce Contingencies                   60.6   94.6  155.2   0.70   1.18   1.89   60.9%   15.3%
Total Civil Works                  203.3  291.7  495.0   4.27   6.11  10.38   58.9%   15.3%
WB/3/5  Kaduwella-Hanwella             12.5   28.2   38.9   67.1   0.70   0.97   1.68   58.0%   15.3%
Peliyagoda-Kadawatha           8.0   30.4   41.9   72.3   0.76   1.05   1.81   58.0%   15.3%
Dehiwala-Maharagama            7.6   23.4   28.1   46.5   0.51   0.70   1.21   58.0%   15.3%
Nawinna-Mirihana                3.4    9.5   13.1   22.5   r.24   0.33   0.56   58.0%   15.3%
Hendala-Hunupitiya             4.0    9.0   12.5   21.5   2.23   0.31   0.54   58.0%   15.3%
Katubedda-Piliyandala          4.7   10.8   14.9   25.7   u..27   0.37   0.64    58.0%   15.3%
Wattala-Mahara                  7.2    9.8   13.5   23.4   0.25   0.34   0.58   58.0%   15.3%
Kirindiwita-Ganemulla           3.0    3.6    5.0    8.7   0.39   0.13   0.22   58.0%   15.3%
Isurupaya-Pannipitiya          6.0    7.7    10.6   18.3   0.19   0.27   0.46   58.0%   15.3%
Total Base Costs            56.4  129.3  178.6  307.9   3.23   4.46   7.70   58.0%   15.3%
Physical Contingencies                12.9   17.9   30.8   0.32   0.45   0.77   58.0%   15.3%
Price Contingencies                   45.3   74.6  120.0   0.41   0.82   X 23   62.2%   15.3%
Total Civil Works                  187.6  271.1  458.7   3.97   5.73   9.70   59.1%   15.3%
TOTAL BASE COSTS                     737.2 1018.1 1755.4  18.43  25.45  43.88   58.0%   15.3%
TOTAL PHYS. CONTINGENCIES             56.0   77.4  133.4   1.40   1.93   3.33   58.0%   15.3%
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES            261.9  428.1  690.0   2.51   4.85   7.36   62.0%   15.3%
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS            1055.1 1523.5 2578.7  22.35  32.23  54.58   59.1%   15.3%
DESIGN & SUPERVISION [1]             109.8  115.9  225.7   2.35   2.48   4.83   51.3%    4.0%
TOTAL ROADS       [2]   417.2 1165.0 1639.4 2804.4  24.70  34.72  59.42    58.5%   12.5%
Notes: 11] Includes Contingencies.
121 Figures may not total because of rounding.



-102-
TABLE 3.5
SRI LANKA
TIIIRD ROADS PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS FOR BRIDGES
Tsxes
Package  Bridge No. 6 Pd. Section                            Costs                    Foreign    6
No.                                              SLRra a              DS5U   m      Element  DOuties
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total        %       I
18t3221 5./1 X&luvara-Ambalargoda           15.6   15.6   31.3  0.39   0.39   0.78   so.0e   10.2t
Total Bast Costs                  15.6   15.6  31.3  0.39   0.39   0.78   SO.0*   10.2%
Phrsical Contingencies               2.3    2.3    4.7  0.06   0.06   0.12   50.0%   10.2%
Price Contingencio s                 3.3    4.7   8.0   0.01   0.04   0.05   58.2%   10.24
Total Civil Works                 21.3   22.6  44.0  0.46   0.49   0.95   51.5%   10.2%
WB/3/22 54/4 Abalangod-caile,                *.4    9.4  18.8  0.23   0.23   0.47   50.0%   10.2%
Total Bass Costs                   9.4    9.4  18.8  0.23   0.23   0.47   50.0%   10.2*
Phyaical Contingencies               1.4    1.4    2.8   0.04   0.04   0.07   50.0$   10.2%
Price Contingencies                  2.0    2.9    4.8   0.01   0.02   0.03   50.2%   10.2%
Total Civil Works                 12.8   13.6  26.4  0.28   0.29   0.57   51.5%   10.2%
16/3/23 1/1 Katunayeke-Nittambuwa           11.5   11.5   22.9  0.29   0.29  0.57   50.0t   10.2%
total Bas- Comte                  11.5   11.5  22.9  0.29   0.29   0.57   50.0%   10.2%
Physical Contingencies               1.1    1.1    2.3   0.03   0.03   0.06   50.0%   10.2t
Price Contingencies                  2.3    3.3    5.6  0.01   0.03   0.04   58.2%   10.2%
Total Clvil work.                 15.0   15.9  30.8  0.32   0.34   0.67   51.5S   10.2%
18/3/24 92/2 Call*-Hatara                    3.9    3.9    7.;  0.10   0.10   0.19   s0.0   10.2%
94/1 Celle-Hatara                    5.7    5.7  11.5   0 14   0.A  0.29   50.0%   10.2%
S/5 Matara-Akurossa                  2.1    2.1    4.2   0.e    0.05   0.10   50.0%   10.2%
Total Base Costs                  11.7   11.7  23.3  0.29   0.29   0.58   50.0%   10.2%
Physical Contingecies                1.2    1.2    2.3   0.03      03   0.06   50.0%   10.2%
Prlce Contingenoes                   2.7    3.6   6.3  0.01        G1   0.05   57.2t   10.2%
Total Civil Works                 15.6   16.S  32.0   0.33   0.35   0.69   51.4%   10.2%
VS/3/25 11211 Hatara-Diokvella               5.2    5.2  10.4  0.13   0.13   0.26   50.0   10.25
12/6 Matara-tlbunan                  1.6    1.6    3.1  0.04   0.04   0.08   SC.^%   10.2t
13/1 Natar.-Hakmana                  1.3    1.3    2.6  0.03   0.03   5 0    50.j%   10.2%
Total Baae Costs                   9.1    8.1   16.2   0.20   0.20       0   50.0%   10.2%
Physical Contingencie                1.2    1.2    2.4   0.03   0.03  (.* 50.0%#  10.2%
Pri,e Conttinge oies                 2.2    2.9   5.1  0.01   0.03         c   56.4<   10.2%
Total Civil Works                 11.5   12.2  23.7   0.25   0.26   0.51   51.4%   10.2%
163/3/24 119/1 bickvellr-Pntotr              8.3    8.3  le.7   0.21   0.21   0.42   50.0%   10.2t
Total Base Coste                   8.3    8.3  16.7  0.21   0.21   0.42   50.0   10.2%
Physical Contingecies                1.3    1.3    2.5  0.03   0.03   0.06   50.0%   10.2%
Price Contingencle,                  2.4    3.0    5.4  0.02   0.03   0.04   56.2%   10.2%
Total Civil Works                 11.9   12.6  24.6  0.26   0.27   0.52   51.4%   10.2%
14/3/27 4/2 Iateala-Wahbe                    S.2    5.2  10.4  0.13   0.13   0.26   50.0%   10.2%
Total Bast Costs                   5.2    5.2  10.4  0.13   0.13   0.26   S0.0%   10.2%
Physical Continrgcies                0.3    0.8    1.6  0.02   0.02   0.04   50.0%   10.2%
Priee Contingencies                  1.5    1.9   3.4   0.01   0.02   0.03   56.2%   10.24
Total Civil Works                  7.5    7.9  15.4   0.16   0.17   0.33   51.4t   10.2t
1W/3/28 45/5 Xalutara-icAangoda              5.7    5.7   11.5  0.14   0.14   0.29   50.0%   10.2%
56/2  Iaanod bG1-                    1.6    1.6    3.1  0.04   0.04   0.08   50.0%   10.2%
?otal Base Coats                   7.3    7.3  14.6  0.18   0.18   0.36   50.0%   '0.2%
Pbs.ileal Contingenctes              1.1    1.1    2.2  0.03   0.03   0.05   50.0%   10.28
PriCe Contingencies                  1.    2.4    4.1  0.01   0.02   0.03   57.2%   10.2%
TOta  Clvil Wlork                 10.2   10.8  20.9  0.22   0.23   0.45   51.4%   10.2%
163/3/29 11613 bickD ella- Hmabantoca        1.6    1.6    3.1   0.04   0.04   0.08   50.0%   10.2t
121/3 Dickvella-Hombantot,           1.8    1.8   3.6  0.05   0.05   0.09   50.0%   10.2%
144/2  Ckella-Nntotu                 1.3    1.3    2.6  0.03   0.03   0.07   50.0%   10.2*
1 9/2  N_notelly                     0.8    0.8    1.6  0.02   0.02   0.04   50.0%   10.2%
163/3 HIembrtota-elaaa0.6    0.6   1.3  0.02   0.02   0.03   50.0%   10.2%
*/3 'atar-%a|X|-lbl1k                3.6    3.6   7.3  0.09   0.09  0.10   50.0%   10.2%
6/1 getuneyake-o itt                 1.6    1.6    3.1  0.04   0.04   0.08   S0.0%   10.24
11/1 3atuayake-Nittalbtt             5.2    5.2  10.4  0.13   0.13   0.26   50.0%   10.2%
13/1 WAtunayake-_itta tuma           0.     0.8    1.6  0.02   0.02   0.04   50.0%   10.20
1/3 Klirndlita-4enmull             1.0    1.0    2.1   0 03   0.03   0.05   50.0%   10.2%
2/2 nhnPle-Bunqpittya                3.     3.6    7.3   0 09   0.09   0.18   50.04   10.2%
Totl Bas  Costs                   22.0   22.0  44.0   0.55   0.55   1.10   50.0%   10.2%
tPh  teal Contingenci                3.3    3.3    6.6  0.08   0.08   0.16   50.0*   10.2%
C eontingenls                        8.0    9.7  17.7   0 07   0.11   0.18   54.8    10.2%
Total Civil WIrs                 33.3   35.0  68.2   0.71   0.74   1.45   51.2%   10.2%
TOTAL  S   COSTS                    99.1   99.1  198.2  2.48   2.48   4.95   50.0%   10.2%
TOtA  PS. CWtnsclS                  13.   13 7  27.4  0.34   0.34   0.69   50.0%   10.2%
TOMAl IPICS CONTINGUECIES           26.2   34 2  60.4  0.16   0.33  0.50   56.6%   10.2%
TOa    eOUSTU aIN coss             139.0  147.0 286.0  2.99   3.15   6.14   51.4%   10.2%
outGI 6 sIPSIOII (13                12.9    3.4  16.3  0.28   0.07   0.3S   20.9%    4.0%
ToA  MInS   12J              151.9  150.4  302.3  3.26   3.23   6.49   49.t7   9.8S
Otess I11) Includes Contingecies.
121 Ftgures may wt total because of rounding.



-103-
TABLE 3.6
SRI LANKA
THIPD ROADS PROJECT
ESTIMATED TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Taxes
Component                                    Costs                     Foreign    G
SLRs m                US$ l         Element  Duties
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total        %
ROADS - Base Costs                  737.2 1018.1 1755.4  18.43  25.45  43.88   58.0%   15.3%
Pt.ysical Contingencies       56.0   77.4  133.4   1.40   1.93   3.33   58.0%   15.3%
Price Contingencies          261.9  428.1  690.0   2.51   4.85   7.36   62.0%   15.3%
Total Civil Works         1055.1 1523.5 2578.7  22.35  32.23  54.58   59.1%   15.3%
BRIDGES - Base Costs                 99.1   99.1  198.2   2.48   2.48   4.95   50.0%   10.2%
Physical Contingencies        13.7   13.7   27.4   0.34   0.34   0.69   50.0%   10.2%
Price Contirngercies          26.2   34.2   60.4   0.16   0.33   0.50   56.6%   10.2%
Total Civil Works          139.0  147.0  286.0   2.98   3.15   6.14   51.4%   10.2%
FLOOD *fEHABILITATION - Base Cost   67.2   22.4   89.6   1.68   0.56   2.24   25.0%    9.0%
Physical Contingencies         6.7    2.2    9.0   0.17   0.06   0.22   25.0%    9.0%
Price Contingencies           11.3    5.6   16.8   0.01   0.04   0.06   33.1%    9.0%
Total                       85.2   30.2  115.4   1.86   0.56   2.52   26.2%    9.0%
EQUIPMENT - Base Costs                3.8    3.8    7.6   0.10   0.10   0.19   50.0%   35.0%
Physical Contingencies         0.4    0.4    0.8   0.01   0.01   0.02   50.0%   35.0%
Price Contingencies            0.3    0.7    1.0   0.00   0.00   0.00   68.3%   35.0%
Total                        4.5    4.9    9.4   0.10   0.11   0.21   S2.0%   35.0%
TECHNICAL ASSISTANC)
Project Support                  92.3   96.4  188.7   2.30   2.41   4.72   51.1%    4.0%
Physical Contingencies         8.9    8.1   17.0   0.22   0.2C   0.42   47.9%    4.0%
Price Contingencies           26.2   34.3   60.5  0.20   0.36   0.55   56.7%    4.0%
Total                      127.4  138.8  266.2   2.72   2.97   5.69   52.1%    4.0%
Policy Development                6.3   25.2   31.5   0.16   0.63   0.79   80.0%    4.0%
Physical Contingencies         0.0    0.0    0.0   0.00   0.00   0.00   80.0%    4.0%
Price Contingencies            1.4    7.3    8.7   0.01   0.07   0.08   83.9%    4.0%
Total                        7.7   32.5   40.2   0.17   0.70   0.87   80.8%    4.0%
Total Technical Assistance      135.1  171.3  306.4   2.89   3.67   6.57   55.9%    4.0%
TOTAL BASE COSTS              1005.9 1265.0 2270.9  25.15  31.62  56.77   55.7%   13.4%
TOTAL PHYS. CONTINGENCIES       85.7  101.8  187.5  2.14   2.55   4.69   54.3%   13.2%
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES      327.3   10.1  837.4  2.89   5.66   8.55   61.4%   13.8%
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES            413.0  611.9 1024.9   5.04   8.20  13.24   60.1%   13.7%
Project Preparation Facility          0.0   20.0   20.0   0.00   0.50   0.50  100.0%    0.0%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         (1t  1418.9 1896.9 3315.8  30.18  40.33  7A.51   57.2%   13.4%
Notes: (1] Figures may not total because of rounding.



-104-
Table 4.1
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROAD  PROJfCT
Traffic Forecasts
Car    Small
Project                                     Opening  4WD   3 Ned. Large  Light HWavy   Tota1    1990 to  Years  Years  Years
llumber            Road Link                 Year  PickvA   Bus    Bus  Truck Truck   ADT       opn.year  1 - 7 8 - 14  15 - 20
GROUP I (Des1gi r   Roads)
1-1 AC    Moratuwa-Kalutara                 195   3.052   2.347   831  2.206   804    9,241         4.0%  6.0X    5.0   4.01
1-2 AC    KIlutara-hmbulangoda               1995    1.056     812   288    763   278    3.197       3.0%   5.0    4.0%   3.0%
1-3 AC    ubablangoda-6alle                  1995    1.477   1,136   402  1.067   389    4,471       3.0X  5.0%    6.0%    4.02
1-4 RC    Katunayake-Veyangoda-Nittatuwa   1995        727     727  404    812   238    2.908        4.01  6.0%    4.0X    4.01
I-5 RC    Toppu-Dankotuwa-Giriulla           1995      663    332   207    930  355   2.487          4.0X  5.0%    4.02    3.02
1^6 RC    Ilyanvtla-Ganenulla                1995      653     461   384    460    78    2,036       4.01  6.0%    4.0%    4.0X
1-7 RC    Seeduw-Udugampola                  1995      551     214   306    188    87    1,346       4.0%   6.0%    4.0%    4.02
1-8 RC    Natara-Hakmana                     1997    ..230     478   684    420   195   3.007        3.01   5.0%    4.0%   3.02
GROUP 11 (Roads Not Yet Designted)
11-1 AC    6alle-Natara                      1997      688     596  264    685   182    2,415        3.0%  S.X    6.0%   4.0%
11-2 AC    Kaduwela-Hmnmella                 1996      924     451  52  1.093   632    3,662        4.0%   6.0X    5.0%   4.0%
11-3 AC    Peliyagoda-Kadawatha              1996   13.720   5,575 3.041  5,787 1.960   30.083       4.0%   5.0%    4.0%   4.0%
11-4 AC    Dehiwela-aharagam                 1996    1,819   1,339   701    696   264    4.819       4.01  6.0%    5.0%   4.02
11-5 AC    St. Joseph Street                 1995    3,504   1,654   435  2,631   807    9,031       4.0%   5.0    4.0%    3.0%
11-6 AC    Novinna-Nirihana                  1996   2.030      680  135   837   129   3.811          4.0%   5.0%    4.0%    3.0X
11-7 AC  Hu upitiya-Wattala-Hendala          1996    2,122     908   761    660   247    4.698       4.0%   6.0%    5.0O    4.0X
11-8 AC    Chillaw Road                      1995   3,619      806   222  1,994   622    7.263       4.0%   5.0%    4.0%   3.0%
11-9 AC    Katubedda-Pillyandala Road        1996    1,304     458   212    163   291    3.028       4.0%  6.0X    5.0%    5.0O
11-10 RC  btara-Oickwella                    1997      523     583   259    486   169    2.020       3.0%   5.0%    4.02    3.0X
11-11 RC  D1ckwella-Hanbantota               1997      544     366   195    454   147    1.706       3.01   5.0%    4.01    3.0X
11-12 RC   Natara-Akuressa                   '997      377     280   164   411   126    1.358        3.0X  5.0%    4.0%   3.0X
11-13 RC  Vattala-Nahara Road IF'            1996      758    239   150    667   283    2.097        4.0%   5.0O    4.0X    3.0%
11-14 RC   Negambo-6iriull                   1995      664    391   2P8    927   364    2.634        4.0%   5.0%    4.0X   3.0%
11-16 RC   Bellatta-Tangalla                 1997      173     303  300    187    68    1,031        3.0X  5.0%    4.01    3.0%
11-17 RC   Kirtndiwita&-arnulla              1996      247     433   429    268   97    1.474        4.0%  S.0%    4.0%    3.02
11-18 RC   Isurupaya-Pannipit1ya             1996    1,229     160   178    534   198    2,299       4.0%   5.0    S.OX    4.02



sRI LAWA
'PM  RAD"S PROdECt
Eat imetd Ccnstruction Coet* wnd Sdchdle
C6TI0J COST Ms. 000)                      _4XC C38TRUCTM COST _ _EA_
Re d              or;do"            Ttra il                                                                   Open-
Projoet                                          L agth    -----             --------    --       ------                                                                      ;no
Number            RPAd Link                       (Km)     Fir.      Ecar.   Fi,.    Ecen.    fin.      Ecen.             1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    Yner
OROWi I ;00,0100
1.1  A. C. DVLA'VS (AC)
I-1 AC    Wratwo m    Kolutvrs (Km. 19-45)
CK  19.-26)                          8.0  136,300   115.446
(Km. 27-29)                          3.0                  0
(K-. 80-32)                          3.0                  0
0Ob. 33-S'                           4.0                  0
Tatals, Km. 19-4S                 28.0  136,300   115,446                   136.300  115,4t4            30.016  25.398  33,479  26,553         0       0    1994
1-2 AC    Kalutera - Ambelnaed  (Km. 46-SS)        40.0  194.600  164,a26  42.600  30,434  237,400  20S,261              52,848  44.717  56.94S   46,750        0       0    1994
1-3 AC    Aalergods - .1  1. (Km. 86-119)          33.0  164., 20  136,028  21,900   19,666    2.500  155,694            40,461   34,2S3  4.151  3S.810        0       0    1994            0
TOTAL AC                            101.0  401.500  416,301  64.700  5,.101  556,200  474,401             128,344  104,368  137.576  109.112      0       0
1.2  TLATIM COURSE (RC)
I-4 RC    Katuneya.. - Voy.rod  - Nlttamuwm        26.0   62,600   6e,962  38.000  34,124  120,S00  104.0'S                  0  33,306  33,306  37.471          0       0    1995
1-S RC    Top.u -    0     - Oir;vlks              32.0  101,700   S6.140                    101,700   '6,140                0  27,565  27,565  31.010          0       0    1995
I-6 RC   'diyanuila - Carn_wila                    6.6   27,300   23,123                      27,300   2S,128                0   7,39    7,399   S.324          0       0    1n9
1-7 RC    aedwa - WUeaols                          12.0  35,100   32.271                      30,100   32,271                0  10,327  10,327   11.017        0        0    1995
1-S RC   fttar* - ,1hanwa                         24.0   SS,600   70,609  13,00    11,674   96,6C00    2.46'                0        0  21.446  1I.146  26.395   16.497    1996
TOTAL RC                            102.6  33,.300  282.30S  51.000  45,798  384,300  S26,10                  0  76.S96  100,044  1066.69   26.395  16,497
TOTAL OtOUP I                       203.6  624,S00  698,606 115,700  103,899  940,600  602,504            123,344 162,967 237,620 2165.62  26.395  16.497
Al       ZOO1UE  SMUISWAJm.
0'
p.-
0*
I.3



SRN LWA
Ebt_ted Coeztjbettin Coat,ad Schadul 
CRGT%Xm COSt CR.. 000)                                   ECmC CI61X7I1'   COST yVWE
_ _ _ __a_ _ _ _ _ B_ _ _ _                                              ______     ___id_e"       C_-
Ro_ar              1eod Lirn                    (K.)     Fin,      oon. F.in.    Eoo        Fis.     ECOM.             191l   1992    1993    1         199s    19"     Yeer
P n Ort D aignad)
2.1 A. C. IVIAYS (AC)
Il-l AC  as.11 - _ota. (Km. 119-1O)             44.0  224,000  1890.2   19.200  17.242  243s200  206.s70                0       0   3.8512  45.s33    Ur,'  :.3C       1996
11-2 AC  K    ladueaIa - lbaeIlta               12.3   67,100   56.04                     67, 100   5.634               0  19,823  13,072  11,87  13U,2                1 199
II4 AC  Paliyeoda - Idwatha                      e.0   72.800   61,238                    72,200   61,238               0  20.21  14.06$  L2.246  14.065          0    l996
11-4 AC  DOhiela - ltharogea  (B)                7.6   48,ao0  41,060                     4S,S00   41.080               0  1s.397   9448   S.216   9,44S          0    199
11-5 AC  St. _eah Sttet (8)                      2.8    8,900    7.828                     8,90     7,sa8               0   2.4-2   2.412   2.714        0        0    1995
11-6 AC  Rovinna - Mirshana                      3.4   22,800   19.058                    22,S00   19,086               0   6,480   4,203   3,812   4,23         0    196
II-7 AC  l;t    iy-Vattalanl (8)                 4.0   21,500   18,211   7,800   6.sss   28,00   24.766                0   8,420   s,696  4*.s9    5.696        0    1996
11- AC  Chilow Road                              1.8    4,200    3.473                     4,100   3S473                0   1,111   1.111   1,250        0        0    19s9
11-9 AC  Katabedda - Pi Iiyadela Road (B)        4.7   25,700   21,768                    28,700   21,768               0   7,401   5.007   4,SS4   3,007         0    1996
TOTAL AC                           8s.3  494,60   416,926  26,600  2s.797  321.100  442.723                0  79.9es   1090,26  94.446 117,921  42.394
2.2 RELATIC CLStO  CRC                                                                                                                                                               0%
11-10 RC  fta.. - Oletwol Is (Kf. 168-103)       21.0   7s.600   64,023  10.400   9.os9   86,000   73S,72                0        0       0  23.470  23.474  28.434    1997
11-1 RC  Dickwells - liomantoto (Km. 186-241)
(Xs. 18220)                        38.0
(Km. 221-241)                      21.0
Totala, VA. 163-241              56.0  2U2,300  179.618  26.000  2s.340  288,00  203,166                 0       0       0  65,013  63.013  73.140    197
11-12 RC  ROtara - Aw..e.                        21.0   71,7o    60,780   4,200   3,772   7s,900   64,52                 0       0  16,770  14.190  20.40  12,900    1906
11-13 RC  Wattals - fhAr Road (8)                 7.2   23,400   19,620  10,400   9,239    3,8000   29.139               0   9.914   6.707   s.882   6,707         0    1"6
11-24 RC  Nasonbo - Ciriulla                      1.6    6,100    4,320                     5.100    4.820               0   1.382   1,.82   1.5s5        0        0    19s9
13-18 RC  soI iOtte - Tongella                    6.5   21,000   17,787                    21.000   17.787               0       0        0   5.692   5,692   6.403    199
11-17 RC  Kirindivita - OaneaulI                  8.0    8,700    7.29   2.100   1.686   10,800    9.25s                 0   3,147   2.129   1.851   2,129        0    1996
11-t1 RC  l-arup2. - Pont.;itiya                  6.0   18.300   15.300                    18.300   13.500               0   5.270   3.565   S.100   3,5S 3        0    199
TOTAL RC                          125.3  438,100  369.377  58,100  47,634  489.200  417,061                 0  19.713  80.533  120.712 127.225 116.657
TOTAL UP U1                       213.6  980.700  766,85  79.600  71.481 1,010.300  659.784                 0  99,649 139,579 215.138 243,146 160.252
.  . ~   ~    ~    l.
TOTAL, eOM  I 4 II                  4*n.2 1,76S,SOO 1.486,909 196,300 17S,379 1.9s0.e00 1,66e2,2e        123.344 2e2,s16 ST7,200 ao,tW   27t,S41 176.74e              ; 
0l
t.J



-107-
TABLE 4.3
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROECT
Results of Econric Evaluation
Project                                         ERR      8/C      NPV
Number             Road Link                    (1)      (2)      (3)            Overall Rate of Return (%)
GROUP I                                                                          6roup 1                32.6
-------                                                                          6roup it               33.1
All AC Roads          34.3
1.1  A. C. OVERLAYS (AC)                                                         All RC Roads           31.0
-----------------------                                                          Full Project           33.1
1-1 AC   Noratuwa - Kulutara (Km. 19-45)         48.8     9.23  1209.83
1-2 AC   Kalutara - Anbalangoda (Km. 46-85)      20.5    2.34   301.99
1-3 AC  Ambalangoda - Gsalle (Km. 86-119)        23.5    3.16   380.67
1.2 REGULATING COURSE (RC)
__________ _______ _______
1-4 RC   Katunayake - Veyangoda - Nittambuwa     34.4    3.65   354.93
1-5 RC   Toppu - Dankotuwa - Giriulla            36.5    3.82   347.00
1-6 RC   Blyanwila - Ganemulla                   39.2    3.78    90.28
I-7 RC   Seeduwa - Udugaqmpola                   28.8    2.77    76.16
1-8 RC   Natara - Hamonana                       38.2    4.47   349.09
GROUP 11
2.1 A. C. OVERLAYS (AC)
_______________________
11-1 AC Salle - Natara (Km. 118-162)            21.2    2.42   332.06
11-2 AC Kaduwela - Hanwella                     33.7    3.94   219.73
11-3 AC Peliyagoda - Kadawatha                  65.9   17.76  1189.45
11-4 AC Dehiwela - Naharagama (B)               36.0    4.98   187.90
Il-S AC St. Joseph Street (B)                   98.1   13.91   150.06
11-6 AC Navinna - hirihana                      30.9    3.79    59.47
11-7 AC Hunupittya-Vattala-Iendala (B)          33.5    4.45    95.97
11-8 AC Chillaw Road                            86.4   11.96    55.21
11-9 AC Katubedda - Piliyandala Road (B)        30.7    3.76    70.07
2.2 REGULATING COURSE (RC)
11-10 RC hatara - Oickwella (Km. 163-183)        30.2    2.94   184.19
11-11 RC Dickwella - Hambantota (KIm. 183-241)    26.4    2.56   408.56
11-12 RC Natnra - Akuressa                       23.0    2.18    98.17
11-13 RC Wattala - Nahara Road (B)               25.4    2.64    58.89
11-14 RC Negcamo - Giriulla                      41.7    4.17    20.28
11-16 RC Beliatta - Tangalla                     21.9    1.90    22.30
11-17 RC Kirindiwita - Ganenulla                 22.4    2.22    14.55
11-18 RC Isurupaya - Pannipitlya                 37.3    4.27    69.87
(1) ERR: Economic Rate of Return
(2) IC: Benefit-Cost Ratio at 10% opportunity cost of capital
(3) IPI: Nt Present Value at 10 opportunity cost of capital



-108-                                     Table 4.4
050                       a.,...                          .. . .       .   .C.. C.C f.mc c.
*                                                         .    .    .    .    .   _
;   3      ]-'   ----°------------°------                           3-
3 SJ_3  ___    --_--------------3                                                33
I     s;-:°                              -  -. :-     --------
33 -.3                . . . .°.°.5. . .
s~~  ~       ~~~~~~~                     Z Z3  Zrx=__a-_ V     2
34    ,             . a ;  ` -   - --4----_        ==Z
3Se  Vi i  :  _-- °     _ _ - ^ 3n_
3       S                                       - 3                                a} £S - = - - 5 -o - a3,i
-   ~    -,                   - -3                                                    a :  Szz _ n = _ _;3 
*33 -aa    ,.    3                  a3.:   -   _   c-f°-_ =..            .*   . _ i i.      a  S
1.i      °     -                   0' 3-       --__            -x _ °                 jjj
t  ;~~~i^~4i---_-oO__=°i*  _  _                                  neca                        Sca3 
*- i       a                           5         -   #i                                 .  3   i.-
:      c                                                 .   .               .  . .   .
i 03 s-        3  -                    ---3        ic vit
3-~~~~~~~~~t  .~ e                                       e     _--s_$-tamec..  3, ,i,,3
j  ;:| v _:_  '                                         :                                 :~2 seadmmn
-i A Ei';i-                                                                            * m1 SC _~_  S o -            
a i3 i-  *i ace  acCe  40.2         C-~*          -   2~~~             -.       C-c      iS   *
-                 ---- -                                                                 1~  i n



-iog-                                                  ~~~~~~Table 4.5
*  0  -  0                  . a... ---4--                                 -      -- 
-   a-     a-.~~~~~~~~~~ ...    ...-..     
.2       i      -a         Z.   .                                                           .   ..   . 
o  -                          ---                                             -  -C- 
~~    0  -  -                  t            ~            ~--  --.--,-                                       n--                     a
*4*   C.    -       C  -4       ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~      -       ---          --       
A~~~~ 
,~~-----------
*  -         .      a. ~        ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~..                                              ....                
404    -               .          *0-                                       --        --        --        --       --            -
*         C          4 ~~~4~~                         ~------                                    ----------
040                                        4     .44*.                                                                                                                       0 



-110-                                                           Table 4.6
__--           _     _O =--             ____
:                   ~                   z.~                      ~*                           O.. . . .    ... .      a   .  .
ig  I;   -a          n.70c,a-.f                                                        a        C
:           .:_                     : aX *        a                o...aw                    oflae4ataeefen._.
, 0  5c    a    Y-             C            _                 eO-_                ^         -        °        0f.* O   _ 0   X  5       
:- i    -          -                     _                  *.      0     0     0     0      e    .0n         0    . -W                       - :ZX_:-°____.*  °   : .
*     !.   _ _   ,                                 .,0,               Cooooo*-nt-=j
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 :.                                                                                                             . _ 
-  -                         5               s -  _  5       _.c...4                      . _    __   
*  _     *C*      t    _.- - -        __        
C                         '        ' ------. - - -.------
_ Cs ,i :                    ::                            i -  !:     '         a 0           !w- . . . . . . .
g ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      - _jO fll . _f                                        Of       w _    _           CCj o ~ _ nn _ . _-j n j
:~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ _  _C __  ,_   _  __  _  
---- --                        -' --
i _ _ !2 i-                 e i                   S ,                          ..0.OlO           OO        -. __-..n=_  flSf j-'- 
i -- i                       m     E-  i -   Cw                     _            _      .a-5 - --------
_a.    O~    .       Wi_                                                                                              .e. . .___ . ._____.___.I. . .j.
3~~~~~ S                               C    .*i&    -  a-- ,,..n......... -,,, _ C                                                   ,S,o, ji 
* 0    ___-              -                       'Cee                                                                                                         2    
|  S,              .I                      j i 2        o              -  - - - - -   =                   o-, -  j-                 o
-          -     -  .--- -- -  -



-111-
Table 4.7
SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Switch Value Analysis
Original                    Increases in Costs                       Decreases in Benefits
Costs &          -------------------------------------           --------------------------
Benefits          100%        300X       400%        418%         -50%        -80%        -81%
(366)         (732)    (1.464)    (1,830)    (1,895)           (366)       0366)       (366)
(500)       (1,000)    (2,000)    (2,500)    (2,589)           (500)       (500)       (500)
(570)       (1,140)    (2,280)    (2,850)    (2,951)           (570)       (570)       (570)
(451)         (902)    (1,804)    (2.255)    (2,335)           (451)       (451)       (451)
714            714        714         714         714         *357         143         138
795            795        795         795         795          398         159         154
884            884        884         884         884          442         177.        171
945            945        945         945         945          473         189         183
1.007          1,007      1,007       1,007       1,007          504         201         195
1,373          1,373      1,373       1,373       1,373          687         275         265
1,232          1,232      1,232       1,232       1,232          616         246         238
1,363          1,363      1,363       1,363       1,363          682         273         263
1,463          1.463      1,463       1.463       1,463          732         293         283
1,411          1,411      1,411       1,411       1,411          706         282         273
1,611          1,611      1,611       1,611       1,611          806         322         311
1,929          1,929      1,929       1,929       1.929          965         386         373
1.784          1,784      1,784       1,784       1,784          892         357         345
1,947          1,947      1.947       1,947       1,947          974         389         376
1,968          1,968      1,968       1,968       1,968          984         394         380
2,112          2,112      2,112       2,112       2,112         1056         422         408
2.249          2,249      2,249       2,249       2,249         1125         450         434
2,559          2,559      2.559       2,559       2,55          1280         512         494
2,338          2,338      2,338       2,338       2,338         1169         468         452
2,418          2,418      2,418       2,418       2,418         1209         484         467
TOTALS   30,215         28.328      24,554      22,667      22,333        14164        4533       4314
ERR        33.11          21.4X       12.7%       10.3%       10.0%        21.4%       10.3%       10.01
NPV    6.191.39       4,709.15   1,744.67       262.43        0.00    2,354.57        52.49       0.00



SRI LANKA
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Organization of the Road Development Authority
MI ttNIS,  OF TPANSPORT 
STATE  t4INS S          STTlL9
r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
RI DEROMD 
I  |   I
SON01A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O t
JNI7 99@
g~~~~~~~~I I I                                      .    ..
EW  W  W   q;H                                                     W   E  w""



SRI LMM
?BfD ROADS PROJECT
IJLUENATON 58C8DU
YDAVT191                        1992              1!93       I   '  1                 199               199       119               1-        go
Oua t*r             2F  3 1 41                     1       3_|2    3   14   1 1   2 1 3 1 4    1 1 2          2   394   19j9 29  17 3   9        I 
Cal4dr Yr.             195b    591         1- 2        _ L _9    _ _ _92_19 1993 |92                                                     1997      1lS
ROADS                                                                                                                             r 
WB/3/1        SCHEDULE TO  E D TER INEI BY 7DCF
WB/3/2        SSD DDT TEE EAA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC cCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMM MMM 1MM
WB/3/3                    S SSS DDD ODD TTT |EE AAA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMMM MMM 14                                  1
WB/3/4                             S| SSS ODD DDD TTT EEE AAA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMM MMM  MM
BR;/3/5                           S SSS ODD DDD TTT EEE AAA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMMM MMM mm1
BRIDGES           I 1II
WB/3/21       SCHEDULE TO r  DTERiINED BY EDCF
WB/3/22       SCH OUL  TO EE D TERPINEI BY 7DCF
WB/3/23                 TTT EEA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMM MMM uMM1 M'I  t
WB/3/24                 TTT IEA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMM MMM MMM
WB/3/25                   T|TT EEA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM M14 MMM M|MMMM
WB13/26                         TTT EEA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMM|MMM MMM1
WB/3127                                  TTT EEA CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMM MMM MMM| |
WB/3/28       SCHEjOULE TO ,E DIITERMINED BY EDCF
WB/3/29               g         TTT EEA| CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MMM MMM MMM 1MM
FLOOD FEE1AB      |    CCCc CCC CCC CCCjCCC CCC CCC CCC |
EQUPHZ            jTT| QOQ Q|QQ
TEM ASSTCB        I  _I    I    YYY| YYYJ YYY| YYY YYY YYYg YYY YYY YYY| YYY    I   I   I   I   I   I                    I       I   I
Legend:       S = Survey                 A - Award S Mobilization
D = Design                C - Construction
T = Tendering              M = Maintenance
E - Evaluation             0 - Equipment Delivery
Y = Studies                                                                                                         3QLDt
01'



8CO01)                                                81°00O                                                52fl0(
s     b       l~~~~~~~e  Pedro
S R I L A N  K A
THIRD ROADS PROJECT
Roads to be Rehabilitoted:
t:91lo6ne Courseand
aOicrete Overlay
--- Regulating Course and Sealing
Bridges to be Rehobilitoted
T.k-                                                    /                                                      hEo-   Widening/Redecking
-   Peplocenent/Reconstruction
Roads:
-   A Grade
-   B Grade
Selected Minor toods
4-+  Railroads
*   National Capital
District Caipitols
t )   /        //         >                       o~~~~~~~~~~~ Other Towns
---  Internooal Boundaries
For detoil.E    G.n.nW
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odom o_n/ elto- 
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rso                                                                    7 -, N    E      Mo_ to
see ns.t.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n5s
Coto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
o h W         <     \                           1>                         ~~~~~~~~      ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTIANi  ^NIOE1
INDIA
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -                        
iy _ ____ g~~~~~~~~0                                             20        4D0 51 N._
o                                                                                                                                                  SI?I  J
:C                     80S 8Tt                                                                                                                                 <o



