Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8397-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (JUDP III)
JUNE 19, 1990
Aeia Country Department V
Infrastructure Division                                                          A
Tbis documen  s  a usldcted    And may be sed by          oIy nh the pero _ o
ther ofici dues. is oents way not Oe         be   d       Wowd 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January, 1990)
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Cp)
US$1         a Rp 1,795
Rp 1 million - US$557
FtSCAL YEAR
Goverament of Indonesias April 1 - March 31
Local Governmentss April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADD               -  Asian Development Bank
BAPPEM MHT III    -   KIP Project Management Unit. DRI Jakarta
BAPPENAS          -   National Development Planning Agency
BKSP              -   DKI Jakarta/West Java Interprovincial Coordinating Body
Botabek           -  Local governments of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi
EPIP              -   Central Audit Bureau
BPD               -   Regional Development Bank
CBFIs             -   Community-based Financial Institutions
DGCK              -   Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements), MPW
DGBM              -   Directorate General Bina Marga (Roads)
DGBangda          -   Directorate General Regional Development, MHA
DOGPUOD           -   Directorate General Local Administration, MHA
DGWRD             -   Directorate General of Water Resource Development, MPW
Dinas Kebersihan  -   City Cleansing Department
DKI Jakarta       -   Daerah Rhusus Ibukota (Jakarta Provincial Government)
GOI               -   Government of Indonesia
in-               -   The Institute of Hydraulic Engineering (MPW), Bandung
IUIDP             -   Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Jabotabek         -   Conurbation of Jakarta and adjacent local governments of
Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi
JICA              -   Japanese International Cooperation Agency
JSSP              -   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project
JMDP              -   Jakarta Metropolitan Development Plan
JUDP I            -   Jabotabek Urban Development Project
JUDP II           -   Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project
JUPCO             -   Project Coordination Unit in DKI Jakarta BAPPEDA
Kampung           -   Urban Neighborhood
Kelurahan         -   District of about 30,OC3 to 50,000 people comprising
several kampungs.
RIP               -   Kampung Improveme-it Program
KLH               -  Ministry of PopulAtion and Environment
LKMD              -   Village Development Council
Lurah             -   District Officer
MHA               -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOP               -  Ministry of Finance
HPW               -  Ministry of Public Works
NGO               -   Non-governmental Organization
OECP              -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
P4L               -   Environmental Testing Laboratory, DRI Jakarta
PDAM              -  Water company
PDAM Jaya         -   DXI Jakarta Water company
PRK               -   Family Welfare Movement
RDA               -   Regional Development Account
Repelita          -   GOI Development Plan
RWW and RTs       -   Neighborhood Leaders
TKPP              -   Tim Koordinasi Pembangunan Perkotaan (Interagency
Coordinating Team for Urban Development)
UNDP              -   United Nation's Development Program



INDONESIA                  FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and ProJect Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:        DKI Jakarta and local governments of Bogor, Tangerang
and Bekasi
Amounts               US$61 million equivalent.
Terms:                Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending terms:      Part of the proceeds of the loan, the equivalent of
US$54.8 million wculd be onlent to: (a) DKI Jakarta
(US$48.0 million equivalent); and (b) the Botabek local
governments (US$6.8 million equivalent) for 20 years
including five years of grace at 9.25 percent interest
including 0.25 percent bank fee, and 0.75 percent
covmnitment charge on the undisbursed amount. The
Government vould bear the foreign exchange risk.
ProJect Objectives
and Description:    The proposed project is designed to assist GOI efforts
in Jabotabek: (i) to introduce a more effective and
sustainable approach to provision of basic services,
through extensive community participation and
incorporation of social and economic development in
recognized low-income urban communities, as a means of
helping to alleviate poverty in metropolitan Jakarta;
(ii) to strengthen environmental protection and
pollution control in the Jakarta region; and (iii) to
improve maintenance of existing infrastructure networks,
and provide a firmer basis for planning future
development priorities. The project consists of: (a)
the Kampung Improvement Program to provide basic
infrastructure and community services in low-income
kampungs (neighborhood) throughout Metropolitan Jakarta;
(b) priority solid waste management including secondary
collection of household refuse to the 75 districts
(kelurahans) to be upgraded under the project in DKI
Jakarta together with 8 districts in priority flood-
prone areas; cleaning up informal dump sites and
stabilizing three full municipal dump sites for closure;
and technical assistance to improve resource recovery;
(c) environmental protection and pollution control
including: (i) institutional strengthening and training
in monitoring and enforcement together with monitoring
equipment for the responsible provincial agency in DKI
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their of ficial duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without Wtorld Bank authoirization.



Jakarta: (ii) development of a natural resources
inventory and formulation of a pollution reduction
strategy for the Jabotabek region; and (iii) feasibility
studies in industrial joint waste treatment and high
polluting small-scale industries; (d) technical
assistance to update the planning framework for
development in the Jakarta region and (e) to impleument
improved infrastructure operation and maintenance.
Benefits and Risks:   The proposed project wills (a) implement a more
effective, community-based approach to expand access to
basic urban services through the Kampung Improvement
Program (RIP) - designated by GOI as the principal means
of alleviating urban poverty. The project would cover
over 402 of all existing and newly settled low-income
kampungs with major service deficiencies and target over
1.5 million people (at US$45 equivalent per-capita);
(b) improve environmental health in these communities
through the introduction of improved arrangements for
collection of garbage and transportation to regulated
disposal sites; and (c) help stem further environmental
degradation through efforts to; (i) develop a pollution
control strategy for the Jakarta region and strengthen
pollution mor'toring and enforcement; and (ii) manage
industrial wastes. The risks of inconvenient location,
poor use and deterioration of facilities provided, as
under previous phases of RIP, would be minimized through
stronger community participation. The lack of extensive
experience in responsible local governments with the
social and community development aspects of KIP would be
addressed under the project through participation of
voluntary, community-based organizations with proven
expertise in this area. To avoid earlier problems with
sanitation improvements, a variety of appropriate, low-
cost solutions would be used reflecting prevailing
ground conditions, etc. To minimize the risks on small-
scale credit, it will be initiated at a pilot scale in
each district, and conditioned by covmwnity savings
mobilized by qualifying credit agencies. To minimize
the risk of uneconomic and poor operational performance
of secondary refuse collection, private sector
involvement is to be sought and equipment will be leased
to them to reduce the risk of excessive down time and
short effective life due to lack of maintenance.
Possible minor environmental adverse impacts of the
project-related to on-plot sanitation and refuse
disposal have been identified and will be mitigated
through agreed project design and operation and
maintenance procedures.



Zstimated Cost la                      Local        rorei&Ld     Total
--- ---   (11s$ million) …----
Kampung Improvement (KIP)fb             41.0          17.4          58.4
Priority Solid Waste                     4.2           4.2           8.4
Pollution Control &
Environmental Monitoring               1.2           3.4           4.6
Urban Spatial Management                 2.0           1.9           3.9
Improved O&M - Implementation            0.5           0.4           0.9
Project Coordination                     0.5           0.7           1.2
Total Base Costs                      49.4         28.0           77.4
Physical Contingencies                   3.2           1.8           5.0
Price Contingencies                     11.1           3.5          14.6
Total Project Cost                    63.7         33.3           97.0
La  Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$8.6 million equivalent and land
at US$0.5 million equivalent.
Lt Includes technical assistance for social and economic development, for
management, and for design and supervision.
Financing Plan                         Local       Foreign       Total
(USS$ million) --------
GOI                                      6.5           -             6.5
D3I Jakarta                             26.5           -            26.5
Botabek local governments                2.0           -             2.0
West Java Province                       0.4           -             0.4
Japan Environment Fund                    -            0.6           0.6
IBRD                                    28.3          32.7          61.0
Total Project Cost                    63.7         33.3           97.0
IBRD Fiscal Year
------_----- (USs million) --------------
Estimated Disbursements  1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Annual              3.7      5.2    12.6    15.5    13.8      8.5     1.7
Cumulative          3.7      8.9    21.5    37.0    50.8    59.3    61.0
Economic Rate of Return: RIP (representing about 80  of project costs) -
estimated at over 202



INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABER URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE URBAN SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   . .   I
A. Sector Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   . .   1
Demographic Trends  . ..........              ..........        1
Institutional Framework for Sector Development     . . . . .   1
Sector Constraints and Priorities   . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
B. The Urban Coamunity Infrastructure Subsector  .   . . . . . . .   4
C. The Jabotabek Urban Region   . .  . .  .   . . . . .  . . . .  .   . .   4
Enviro.imental Conditions in Jabotabek     . . . . .        . .   5
Towards a Planning Framework for Development     . . . . . .   5
Infrastructure Development Issues for Jabotabek.    .   . .     6
II.  SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE  .. ......    ........  .          8
A. Government Strategy . . . . .8
Strategic Agenda for the Sector. . ...........  ..    8
B.  Bank Experience in the Sector .h .o..................    9
C. Bank Strategy in the Sector .. ....          .......... .   13
III* THE PROJECT  . ... . . . . . . ..... ..... . . . . . . ...  15
A. Project Origin.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
B.  Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . .  15
Project Description .. .   ........      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   16
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ....  .  .  .  .   ...................   .   17
A. Cost Estimates                              . . . . . . . . . . .  17
B.  Financing Plan, Flow of Funds and Onlending terms . . . . . . . .  19
C. Financial Impact for Participating Local Governments  . . . . . .  20
V.  EXECUTING AGENCIES AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
A. The Comprehensive Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) . . . . . . .  24
Institutional/Organizational Framework  . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Program Scale, Criteria for Site Selection  . . . . . . . . .  26
B. Priority Solid Waste Management. ... ........... .  28
C.  Environmental Protection and Pollution Control. . . . . . . . . .  29
D.  Urban Spatial Management  . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  ..  30
E.  Improved Infrastructure O         &M.............*. .    30
F. Implementation Schedule .       ..................   30
G. Project Supervision and Monitoring by the Bank  . . . . . . . . .  30
H.  Procurement and Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
I. Accounts and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia during November/December 1989. The mission consisted of
S. Whitehead (Leader), A. Bruestle, L. Lovei, T. Semb, G. TSchannerl and
D. Williams, and J. Viloria and V. Lane (consultants).



VI.  PROJECTJUSTIFICATIONANDRISC  . ...... ..... .  . . . . .  35
A.  Economic Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
B.  Urban Poverty Impact  . ..........              ............ .    37
C.  Environmental Impact  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....................    .  37
D.      Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
VII. AGREEENTRS CONCLUDED  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... .           42
ANNEXES
1.    Kampung Improvement Program
2.    Priority Solid Waste Management
3.    Environmental Protection and Industrial Pollution Control
4.    Urban Spatial Management
5.    Implementation of Improved Operation and Maintenance
6.    Envirommental Assessments
7.    Local Government Financial Projections
8.     Technical Assistance
9.    Detailed Financing Plan
10.    Implementation Schedule
11.    Disbursement Schedule
12.    Key Implementation Indicators
13.    Project Organization Chart
14.    Supervision Plan
15.    Documents for Project File
Photos
ks:s
22130  Kampung Improvement Program (JUDP III and [past phases)
22131 Kampung Improvement Program (IBRDIADB)
22132 Pollution Control and Solid Waste management Program
22133  Linkages with Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project
(JUDP II)



INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Sector Overview
Demographic Trends
1.1       The Urban Sector in Indonesia is significant for both the economic
and social development of the country. Some 45 million, or about one quarter
of Indonesia's total population now live and work in urban areas. Net
migration and natural growth combined to produce an overall urban population
growth rate of about 4.7Z per annum in the 1980's - more tnan double the
overall national population growth rate. If current trends continue, as is
likely, urban areas are projected to continue to grow almost as rapidly at
about 4.4Z and fully two thirds of total future population growth will take
place in, or move to, the nation's towns and cities such that by the year 2000
the urban population is expected to reach 75 million. About 50Z of the total
urban population is lozated in the 12 largest cities which are important
employment generators and are currently absorbing a substantial proportion of
labor force growth.
Institutional Framework for Sector Development
1.2       Sector Agencies.  Urban development and administration in Indonesia
is synonymous with local government development. There are over 300 level II
local governments including 54 cities (Kotamadya) and 247 level II local
governments (local governments) which are responsible for providing services
to meet the basic needs of local communities.l/ The 26 provincial governments
are not generally involved in the direct provision of urban services except
DKI Jakarta but, instead, oversee the performance of the level II local
governments. The Provincial Development Board (Bappeda) examines and approves
the programs prepared by the cities and evaluates their priority and linkages
in relation to other development programs both for the cityltown and the
province. The Regional government in Jakarta has been designated as a special
province (Daerah Xhusus Ibukota or DRI Jakarta). Provincial governors and
local mayors are appointed and, in practice, except in the largest cities the
development of local services continues to be guided, and sometimes
implemented, by an extensive central government institutional apparatus.
1.3       The National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) is responsible
for overall planning and allocation of resources, with focus on the Five-year
Development Plans (Repelita) and Annual National Development Budgets (APBN).
The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has overall responsibility for regional
government affairs, primarily through its Directorate General for Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy (DGPUOD) and Directorate General Regional
1/ Government Regulation No. 14/1987



- 2 -
Development (DGlangda). The Ministry of Public Works (MPN) is responsible for
oversight, planning, and sometimes, implementation of infrastructure. Within
MPW, the Directorate General for Human Settlements ((DGCK - Cipta Karya) is
responsible for city planning and for guiding development of water supply,
sewerage and sanitation, solid wastes management and integrated programs of
low-income community upgrading (Kampung Improvement - KIP) through four
separate implementing directorates. Also within MPW, the Directorate General
for roads (DGBM - Bina Marga) is responsible for urban roads and bridges and
the Directorate General of Water Resource Development (DGWRD) is responsible
for urban flood control and bulk water supply. The Ministry of Finance (MOF)
is responsible for central and local finance through its Directorate General
of Monetary Affairs (DGMDN), though the Director General of Budget (Angaran)
actually administers grant transfers; property tax administratioa through its
Director General of Taxation (DGP - Pajak); and analysis of local finance
through its Agency for Financial Analysis (BAK - Badan Analisa Keuangan).
Other concerned agencies include the National Land Agency (BPN), Director
General for Land Transport of the Ministry of Communications, The Ministry of
State for Population and the Environment (KLH), the Ministry of State for
Housing and the Ministry of Health. Pollution monitoring and enforcement is
the responsibility of Provincial Governments gulded by central government
agencies. All key agencies are represented in the Interagency Coordinating
Team for Urban Development (TKPP - Tim Koordinasi).
Sector Constraints and Priorities
1.4       The Bank's 1984 Urban Services Sector Report (No.4800-IND) estimated
conservatively that total expenditures by central and local government on
urban services investment, operation and maintenance (O&M) during Repelita IV
(1984-89) should be about Rp 900 billion per year (1986 prices) to overcome
service backlogs at minimal levels of service and meet reasonable growth needs
for the additional 2.2 million urban residents each year together with and for
the associated growth in economic activity. Actual expenditures have doubled
to an average of Rp 700 billion per year with initiation of the Bank's Urban
Sector Loan (USL I - Ln. 2816-1D ). Current estimates indicate that about 761
of the urban population does not have direct access to a piped water supply.
Almost two thirds of all urban households still rely on wells, and about llS
are dependent on a system of water vendors. About 655 of low-income groups
share toilets and use of canals remains common. In the larger cities
inadequate industrial water supply and waste disposal is a serious problem.
In terms of GOI's service and equity objectives, more low-cost, local or
tertiary systems investment is needed in existing under-served urban areaa.
However, as well as the concomitant need for O&M of the expanding networks,
there is a growing need for public investments in, and rehabilitation of,
primary and secondary systems to support local infrastructure needs
adequately, particularly for sanitation, water supply, flood protection and
transport in larger centers.
1.5       While average incomes in urban area have risen substantially over
the past eight years, distribution of income remains unequal and in 1987, over



- 3 -
202 of urban dwellers were estimated 2/ still to be poor or near poor. The
problem of income distribution is exacerbated by the deficiencies in basic
services and degradation of environmental conditions leading to poor health
among the low-income population in particular. These conditions are
particularly severe in the large costal cities such as Jakarta where flooding,
inadequate drainage and poor sanitation, together with high residential
densities combine to produce high levels of gastro-enteritis, pulmonary and
skin diseases, particularly in children.
1.6       Sector Finances.  The finances of regional/local governments have
long been dominated by central government transfers and characterized by weak
local resource mobilization, low per-capita budgets and very limited use of
credit for capital investment.31 In 1983/84, explicit central government
transfers 4/ financed over three quarters of aggregate recurrent expenditures
and almost 80S of capital investments. By 1986/87, budgetary constraints
caused by falling oil revenues led to a severe curtailment of local investment
programs financed by central government transfers, which were reduced from
almost half of local budgets, on average, in 1983/84 to less than one quarter
in 1986/87. Thus a marked deterioration has taken place in the structure of
local budgets and the contribution of local governments to overall sector
development. The high level of growth (18.52) in locally generated revenues
a/ failed to significantly improve local finances. Borrowings, at 1.2? of
total local receipts, continue to be an insignificant feature of the financing
system for local services.
1.7       A well-managed expansion of credit holds the key to increasing
investment in the sector if the budgetary impact and inflationary pressures
are to be minimized. Recognizing the need for a guideline more in line with
GOI policy of inducing a higher level of credit financing in Repelita V, GOI
is proposing to adopt a Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSC) of not less than 1.5
for local government general fund operations and not less than 1.3 for local
enterprises such as water supply. This would bring the legal borrowing
capacity for local governments in line with their considerably higher paying
capacity.
1.8       In snummary, the large number of agencies and the often uncoordinated
specific programs and policies supported by them in an attempt to improve
urban infrastructure and services during earlier Repelitas, have led to a
fragmented and inefficient approach to urban development. Key urban
infrastructure deficiencies are found in water supply, roads and transport,
2/ Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS) as reviewed in the Bank's Poverty
Report
3/   related primarily to foreign assisted projects in the large cities.
4/   including SDO and Inpres, but not including DIPs (grants-in-kind on
central government implemented projects, privurily by the Ministry of
Public Works, which are subsequently handed over to local governments).
Sl   property taxes and other local taxes and charges.



waste disposal (human, solid and industrial), drainage and other micro-
infrastructure. Lack of access to water supply, sanitation and housing is
particularly severe for the urban poor. Much of the future urban growth from
migration will constitute unskilled rural laborers from lower income groups
which have limited ability to pay for even basic urban services. Shifting
urban policies towards a priority for accommodating this growth represents a
key policy imperative in most urban areas, and GOI has given increased
emphasis to poverty alleviation programs in Repelita V. To support the
increased level of investment needed, financial and management capability in
local governments must be strengthened if they are to become an effective
agent for sector development.
B. The Urban Community Infrastructure Subsector
1.9       Because they developed as informal settlements, urban kampungs
(neighborhoods) have genxerally been by-passed by large-scale city-wide
infrastructure and by the services provided by formal sector housing
developers. Depending on city size and growth rate, from 50Z to 802 of all
urban dwellers live in these communities alongside much of the small-scale
industry and cottage businesses which make up the main employment and income
base for the urban population.  Kampungs are not squatter settlements.
However, land ownership is usually highly fragmented and composed of
traditional rights which may be contested, or are not clearly recorded. Many
occupiers pay a land rent for their use of the land to the traditional owners,
many of whom obtained the land by gift or inheritance. Four types of law
(Indonesian, Dutch, Muslim and Traditional (Adat) may govern land rights.
Although the judicial system is weak in Indonesia, there is a long tradition
of the right of occupation with few cases of ejection by private landlords.
In recent years, however, infrastructure and large-scale commercial
development has removed substantial portions of Kampungs in central Jakarta
from low-income residential use. In these circumstances, investment in
Kampung infrastructure (Rampung Improvement Programs - KIP) provides a stable
environment for these low-income communities and forms a key element of the
government's social development effort in urban areas. The implicit
recognition of permanent status provided by RIP can be enhanced further
through provision of rights of use to Kampung dwellers occupying government-
owned land.
C. The Jabotabek Urban Region
1.10      Jabotabek is GOI's mnemonic for the urban region consisting of the
Province of DKI Jakarta, and the surrounding Local governments of Bogor,
Tangerang and Bekasi together with Kotamadya Bogor. Jakarta is the national
capital and seat of government, and commercial and administrative hub of the
country. A disproportionate amount of the burden of population growth falls
on metropolitan Jakarta. Between 1960 and 1980, the population of DXI Jakarta
doubled and by 1986 fully 201 (8 million) of the urban population, 5X of the
total national population, lived and worked in the city. However,
urbanization has outgrown the administrative boundaries of DKI Jakarta and,
with the spread of industrial and informal sector residential development
(much of which lacks infrastructure and utility services), the surrounding
'fringe* areas now contain a further 2.3 million people. The metropolitan



- 5 -
area now ranks among the 25 largest conurbations in the world. Jabotabek's
size and rapid growth have helped to provided employment opportunities for
surplus rural labor and has expanded the production base for Indonesia's
iniustrial sector and 172 of GDP is now generated there. By the year 2005
metropolitan Jakarta is projected to have a total population approaching 23
million compared to 13 million in 1990. For Jabotabek as a whole, the current
population of about 15 million is expected to exceed 26 million by the year
2005.
Environmental Conditions in Jabotabek
1.11      This rapid urban growth and associated industrialization in the
Jabotabek area is placing increasing stress on the natural resources of the
region, with domestic and industrial wastes causing severe degradation of
ground, surface and coastal waters, air pollution and contamination of soils.
This adversely affects the health and quality of life of its residents and the
economy of the region. Fully 402 of the population still depend on
groundwater and the quality of this source is already poor in many areas and
is threatened in others. As the region expands, and in the absence of
pollution control, safe water must be brought from more di-tant sources, ari
the costs of transmission and treatment are high. Poor solid waste management
practices also exacerbate environmental problems. Although solid waste
collection service coverage in Jakarta is reportedly very high (852), 15? is
randomly dumped and, of that w.hich is collected, only about 50Z is disposed of
in a controlled manner in suitable landfills. As a consequence of
shortcomings in the secondary collection and transportation system, solid
wastes are disposed of in informal dumps and in drains and canals causing
pollution of waterways (Jakarta's raw water source), groundwater pollution and
flooding due to clogging of the primary and secondary drainage system.
Aquaculture and costal fishing - important employment and food sources - are
threatened, especially by industrial pollution. Incidence of infant mortality
and of gastro-enteric, pulmonary and viral diseases caused, in part, by
polluted and congested conditions is high, especially among the poor and those
living in the northern, flood-prone areas of the city. In addition to health
and quality of life problems, the environmental conditions impose higher
infrastructure development and maintenance costs. Finally, in the absence of
a rigorous pollution control and enforcement strategy and program, industries
continue to use inefficient and outdated technologies with wasteful
consumption of raw materials, rendering them less competitive in international
markets as well as imposing health and economic costs on others.
Towards a Planning Framework for Development
1.12      Concern over the relatively high level of investment in the capital
region on the one hand, and the continuing serious deficiencies in basic
services in the capital on the other, particularly for the urban poor, has
long been expressed at the highest level. Consequently, in line with
Presidential Instruction INPRES 13/1976 and with Bank assistance from Loan
1336-IND (Second Urban Development Project) the development priorities and
options of Jabotabek were studied during 1979-82, and in 1984 recommendations
were adopted into the Jakarta Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP) of DKI
Jakarta/West Java interprovincial coordinating body (Jabotabek BRSP). The



- 6 -
main features of the JMDP includedt (a) an integrated growth and investment
strategy; (b) a more environmentally sound, east-west alignment for future
development in order to avoid further pollution of the important aquifer
recharge areas to the south of the city, and high development costs in the
environmentally sensitive wetlands and poor soils in northern coastal areas;
and (c) a major emphasis on water supply, sanitation, Kampung improvement and
flood protection together with guided development of land for residential and
industrial areas focussed on primary infrastructure deficiencies (including
roads). The plan was to be implemented through short-term subsectoral action
programs complemented by longer-term institutional development efforts.
1.13      Jabotabek BKSP has not matured as an effective locus for
metropolitan issues and there is a lack of synthesized information on the
nature, scale and location of changes which have occurred since then. The
Jakarta Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP) is now obsolete. The population
has increased much faster than projected. Whilst some designated growth areas
show few signs of significant growth, major developments not foreseen in the
JMDP have occurred (e.g. new towns at Bekasi and Serpong) and much development
is occurring outside the designated areas including in environmentally
sensitive areas (e.g. the aquifer recharge areas south of Jakarta). Even
though much of the recent population growth has occurred in the fringe areas
bordering DKI Jakarta, and considerable additional property tax revenues
accrue to the Botabek local governments as result, they have yet to endorse
key programs to address the public infrastructure needs of this growth. At
the same time, however, important policy initiatives have now been undertaken
by GOI which will help strengthen land use and intersectoral investment
planning and implementation in the Jabotabek region. These include the
establishment of the BPN (Land Agency Badan), the Spatial Planning Decree
(Kepres 57/89) and the recent industrial estates Decree.
1.14      Urban Infrastructure Expenditure in Jabotabek.  Expenditures on
urban infrastructure (including public transport) in Jabotabek during Repelita
IV totalled some Rp 1.7 trillion or over 60Z of the national total. With
expenditures of Rp 465 billion in 1989/90, Jakarta clearly continues to
dominate infrastructure expenditure allocations in the sector. Nevertheless,
there appears to be a substantial imbalance among service expenditures, with
70S of expenditures in Jakarta over the period going to investments and
operating subsidies for transport (commuter rail, roads and bus) and very
little towards Kampung infrastructure, sanitation, water supply, flood
protection or solid waste collection, and none towards control of industrial
pollution. The Repelita V program is not yet fully detailed and depends on
progress with preparing donor supported projects.
Infrastructure Development Issues for Jabotabek.
1.15 Investment in Jakarta's infrastructure has not kept pace with needs and
considerable deficiencies remain both in coverage and quality, vizs
(a) inadequate transport infrastructure to link major parts of the
metropolis and to guide urban growth;



(b) inadequate investment in water distribution while the investment in
water treatment plants has proceeded on the basis of the master
plan, resulting in excess treatment plant capacity (e.g., Buaran II
and Cisadane treatment plants);
(c) poor cost recovery, organization and management which results in an
inadequate water supply network causing severe problems, primarily
in the northern half of the city where groundwater is not potable,
and restrictive practices for distributing water through vendors
which leads to excessive prices to the poor;
(d) severe pollution of surface water and increasingly of groundwater,
from human and municipal wastes and from a rapidly rising volume of
industrial and toxic wastes;
(e) inadequate micro-infrastructure and services and inadequate
awareness and use of low-cost sanitation in the urban Kampungs,
where most low-income people live, resulting in an unhealthy
environment which limits the social and economic potential of the
human capital resources of the capital region;
(f) inadequate policies and operational programs for: (a) O&M of
infrastructure and utility services; Cb) local revenue generation
and the use of municipal borrowing; and (c) private sector
participation in delivery of municipal services;
Cg) constraints which affect the productivity of the small-scale
business and informal economic sector and which limit income growth
and employment among the 50? of t'ie urban population which work in
the informal sector; and
.h) unclear relationships between municipal and central government
authorities with respect to assignment of responsibilities for
preparation, appraisal, financing and implementation and O&M of
infrastructure services.
1.16      These problems raise important issues for GOI policy and call for an
efficient metropolitan development strategy matched with a balanced
intersectoral investment program using low-cost technologies where
practicable. Much of the growth will inevitably continue to take place at the
periphery and the need to initiate investments there, particularly in basic
services, is urgent since the cost of these services rises rapidly over time
as settlement consolidates and densities increase. Without adequate spatial
planning, this will continue to increase the agglomeration costs of
infrastructure development in metropolitan Jakarta and degrade environmental
conditions even further. Nevertheless, Jabotabek local governments have
significant manpower resources and growing experience to address many of these
challenges. Given GOI budgetary constraints, the relatively high average
incomes in Jakarta and the substantial needs elsewhere in the country, local
taxes and user charges should pay for financing most of the urban
infrastructure in Jabotabek. A series of World Bank and Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) projects described in par&. 2.5-2.7, 2.10 and 2.16



attempt to address the issues outlined above in a coordinated and integrated
manner.
11. SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE
A. Government Strategy
2.1       GOI has recognized the shortcomings outlined above, and current
sector goals emphasize integrated and decentralized/deconcentrated management
of urban development as the strategic solution. Bappenas has been designated
to lead a high level interagency team (Tim Koordinasi - TKPP) representing the
concerned agencies and ministries and charged with the responsibility of
sector policy development and coordination.
Strategic Agenda for the Sector
2.2       The policy priorities for urban development in Indonesia were
articulated in 1984 in the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report (Report 4800-
IND) and the 1986 Local Government Finance Report. To address these
priorities, the government issued, in 1987, a Statement of Policies for Urban
Development which represents a consolidated view of the principal constraints
arising and the objectives prescribed for the development effort in the
sector. This Policy Statement includes: (a) strengthening local governments
to assume the leading role in developing, operating and maintaining local
services; (b) carrying out planning, programming and identification of
investments on the basis of a decentralized and integrated (Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Development Program -- IUIDP) concept; (c) mobilizing local
revenues and optimizing their use; (d) implementing a coordinated financing
system for the development and administration of local services; and (e)
strengthening the consultative process at various levels of government. Until
then, GOI priorities for the sector had focussed primarily on expanding
provision of basic services.   Repelita V also promised greater attention to
operation and maintenance of local infrastructure and services and the welfare
of the urban poor. To this end, integration of urban kampungs more fully into
their respective urban systems through a community oriented Kampung
Improvement Program (KIP) has been adopted as the principal GOI policy for
alleviating urban poverty.
2.3       The Policy Statement was translated into an Action Plan of
institutional reforms and improvements in local resource mobilization, sector
planning and financing arrangements, which were incorporated explicitly into
the Urban Sector Loan (USL T, Loan 2816-IND) and which, since then, has
provided a strategic framework to guide the focus and process of urban
development in Indonesia. In addition, and under USL I, strategies were
formulated for the major urban service subsectors of Water supply, drainage
and flood protection, human and solid wastes, roads and KIP. The national
strategy which has been endorsed by GOI for KIP emphasizes the importance of
stronger community participation and the need to augment the provision of
basic infrastructure and utility services with social and economic
development.



-9-
2.4       With regard to pollution control, the Ministry of Population and
Environment (KLH) has prepared a draft law to establish a Pollution Control
Authority. The authority would consolidate the powers for control of water
and air quality presently fragmented amongst several ministries; would
establish national policies and standards; and would strengthen the powers and
capability to prepare and implement pollution control strategies at the
provincial level. The law is currently under discussion in government and is
expected to be put into effect shortly as amended. Monitoring ambient and
point source water quality has been underway for some time in a few provinces,
the most experienced agency being P4L in DKI Jakarta.
B. Bank Experience in the Sector
2.5       Since 1975, the Bank has financed five completed and eight on-going
urban projects in Indonesia touching over fifty local governments and their
water enterprises. Project experience in large cities has generally been
good. Most physical targets have been achieved, and in some cases surpassed.
There has been compliance with most loan covenants despite some delays.
Project implementation and monitoring systems have steadily improved, and a
fruitful dialogue with local and concerned central government officials has
been maintained and strengthened.
2.6       The most recently completed urban projects (Urban III Ln. 1653-IND
and Urban IV Ln. 1872-IND) were focussed mainly on poverty-related KIPs (basic
infrastructure improvements), city-wide upgrading of drainage and solid waste
services, institutional development and revenue generation at the municipal
level. The combined Project Completion Report (PCR) for these two projects
(dated June 30, 1989) highlighted current key issues of urban development in
Indonesia: (a) operation and maintenance (O&H) budgets and institutional
capacities are inadequate at all levels; (b) coordinated planning and
programming of urban infrastructure is essential for functioning systems;
(c) improved local resource mobilization is the only viable basis for
sustaining urban development programs; and (d) decentralization of urban
development program implementation requires strengthened municipal management,
technical manpower and operational systems. Some of the functional
requirements and policy reform options to address these issues are now being
explored in Urban V (Ln. 2408-IND), and the first Urban Sector Loan (USL I) on
a national basis. The need for coordinated infrastructure planning was the
key to the development of the IUIDP concept, which is being implemented
through evolving GOI financial and program management intermediation under a
series of regional urban development projects currently under preparation.
2.7       JUDP I (Ln. 2932-IND) is proceeding well and on schedule.  JUDP I ia
designed to improve urban transport conditions in the Jabotabek area within a
framework of integrated infrastructure planning and programming. Particular
attention has been given to improving project coordination and a Jabotabek
Urban Project Coordination Office (JUPCO) was established in May, 1988. From
its inception, JUPCO has been particularly effective in managing a relatively
new and complex project execution process. As a result, a significant number
of diverse, but complementary activities have been initiated on schedule and
within budget. The experience with project implementation only dates back to
September, 1988 and much remains to be done. Nevertheless, a basis exists for



- 10 -
the continuation of effective project management and coordination in future.
JUPCO's experience has been taken into account in the design of the project
for which the role of JUPCO would be expanded to ensure monitoring and
coordination.
2.8       Progress on Strategic Sector Goals.  The Sector agenda is ambitious,
but a reasonably good start has been made. The performance of USL I in
supporting priority expenditures and increasing disbursements in the sector
has been satisfactory. Provision of counterpart financing through USL I has
enabled Indonesia to expand sector expenditures in keeping with (but not yet
achieving) the recommendations of the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report.
However, implementation of the policy agenda under USL I has lacked clear
direction and has not been coordinated effectively. As a result,
institutional development objectives have not yet been brought fully to
fruition and preparation of a pipeline of viable investments has been slow. A
full evaluation of the impact of USL I is pending. Nevertheless, a
preliminary assessment indicates that good continuing progress is being made
in local resource mobilization - PBB has increased by about 25Z per year and
other local taxes and charges by about 10? in real terms in recent years.
However, GOI has yet to take action on the structural, changes envisaged
under the USL I policy agenda. A new draft law to reform local taxes has been
prepared for legislative action but little progress has taken place to clarify
the incentive framework for local fiscal and financial management through
measures to rationalize the system of grants and to articulate the policies
for financing of local infrastructure. Medium-term Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Development Plans (IUIDP) have been produced in over sixty
local governments, including the major urban centers where the majority of the
urban population resides. However, it will be some time before the process is
sufficiently mature to produce consistently high quality expenditure and
financing plans.
2.9       A local government loan fund (the Regional Development Account -
RDA) is also being made operational. However, as yet, RDA lacks a clearly
defined relationship with grants, and the additional collateral support which
would be provided by the new taxes and charges law and would make it fully
effective. Moreover, a clear indication of how RDA should be related to the
reformed financial system has yet to emerge. The 9? initial interest rate set
for RDA is more in line with onlending of foreign assistance in the sector
over the last year of so than with recently announced GOI policy of moving
broadly towards market interest rates. However, an understanding was reached,
in the negotiations for this project, that GOI will adjust RDA's interest rate
in line with market conditions.
2.10      External Assistance in Jakarta.  GOI and DKI Jakarta, with
assistance from the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) as well as the Bank, have begun to
implement the JMDP, which was prepared with Bank assistance, although an
integrated expenditure plan has yet to be adopted. OECF had assisted in
developing sewerage and solid waste master plans and is providing assistance
for the construction of three water treatments plants (a fourth is funded by
French assistance), for the Jakarta Flood Control Project, for the Jakarta
Outer Ring Road and the Jabotabek Commuter Railway. Before the JMDP was



- 11 -
developed, the Bank had assisted DKI Jakarta's Ksampung Improvement Program
(RIP) through the first three Bank-financed urban projects which also included
serviced sites for new low-income housing. Urban transport has been assisted
through the first Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP I) which followed
the JMDP Strategy, and the water and waste-water sectors were addressed
through the West Tarum Canal Improvement Project (Ln. 2560-I0) which expanded
raw water supply, the Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project (Ln. 2236-IND).
The proposed project (JUDP III), which complements the Second Jabotabek Urban
Development Project (JUDP II, Ln. 3219-IND), responds to the JMDP priorities
by addressing the environmental, housing and income generation needs of low
income people in Metropolitan Jabotabek's expanding Rampungs and establishing
the basis for improved environmental planning and management in the
metropolitan area.
2.11      Implementation of Coamunity-based Infrastructure provides the most
relevant experience for the project. The KIP is the main urban-oriented
community infrastructure program in the country. It was initiated by the DKI
Jakarta in 1969 because national sectoral agencies and even the city
government agencies were not providing services to the dense, lower-income
areas where access and land acquisition were difficult, yet environmental
conditions were wor4t. Based on experience gained following the initial
implementation of RIP, it was recognized that a more integrated approach to
the planning and installation of services was necessary and more community
involvement was needed than for conventional infrastructure projects.
2.12      The KIP proved extremely popular and successful in Jakarta and
Surabaya, and subsequently the Ministry of Public Works expanded the program
through national grants such that some 7,000 hectares of kampungs were
improved during Repelita II, 15,000 hectares during Repelita III and a further
10,000 hectares during Repelita IV. Overall, since its inception, more than
800 towns and cities have implemented some form of RIP development benefiting
roughly six million people. While this expanded program introduced the KIP
approach to many urban communities and provided some needed services, it
suffered from poor physical planning and linkages with city-wide
infrastructure. Participation by many smaller local governments was also
weak, since it was implemented by central government agencies and funds
without requirement for local cost-sharing, and the level of GOI grant funding
was generally inadequate to provide a substantial improvement in conditions.
Moreover, the lack of multi-year planning on commitments resulted in stop-
start planning and implementation. In about 20 cities, however, foreign
assisted loan programs included RIP as a principal component of city-wide
infrastructure improvements. In these cases the RIP was generally more
effective since the investment levels were more substantial (Rp 5 to 12
million/hectare), and local governments managed the programs and participated
in the financing.
2.13      Generally speaking, RIP draiaage improvements have succeeded in
benefiting the low-income urban population at low-cost and substantial
reductions in flooding are reported. Water supply improvements in RIP
projects have been particularly effective in Surabaya, but not in many other
cities. Sanitation improvements have generally been poor. To date,
participation by beneficiary communities has not been actively encouraged, and



- 12 -
maintenance of facilities created has suffered from the lack of a sense of
"community ownership' of investments. OED 6/ confirmed difficulties with the
operation of communal sanitation facilities due to the relatively high level
of charges and inconvenient locations and emphasized the importance of
environmental health information and education in future phases of the
program. Even so, KIP appears to confer implicit recognition of tenure on
beneficiary communities, and OED also confirmed that considerable additional
private investment in home improvements has been generated. Land values are
reported to have risen markedly, but there appears to have been relatively
little displacement due to either excessive rent increases or to physical
works.
2.14      Since 1982, the KIP effort slackened, partly due to reduction in
available central government funds, partly to unclear responsibilities between
central and local governments and partly to an increased emphasis on large
scale public infrastructure supported by donors, particularly in Jakarta.
Consequently RIP has fallen behind both in servicing new kampungs and
providing additional infrastructure needed to existing kampungs which were
deficient in some key services. Investment in RIP (from all sources) as a
proportion of total investment fell from its high point of 122 of total urban
infrastructure expenditure during Repelita III to only 4-5 in Repelita IV.
During 1987 and 1988, and with support under the Bank's Urban Sector Loan
(Loan 2816-IND), this rose to 6Z. More recently, however, both central and
local governments have recognized that much of the rapidly growing low-income
urban population is stil'l not served by basic local infrastructure and
services, and have expressed a renewed interest and commitment to community-
level urban development programs. Under Repelita V, RIP represents about 6.8?
of planned expenditures.
2.15      These interests were validated by the recent experience of the
UNDP/Urban V assisted urban sanitation pilot projects in Semarang and
Surakarta where an effective partnership was established between the local
governments and community organizations to promote health education and
sanitation facilities and to assist households through extension services and
loans to build their own toilet facilities. The experience so far has been
very positive with increas;,ng demand for the program from low-income
households, satisfactory construction quality and, in the short experience to
date, a high level of repayments from families on their loans for sanitation
facilities.
2.16      Investments in improved solid waste management in DRI Jakarta have
been made under each of the first three Bank-financed urban projects.
Generally, these investments were effective in expanding community-based
primary collection in about 120 of the total 240 districts (kelurahans).
However, this was not matched by an effective secondary collection system, and
garbage continues to be disposed of in an unorganized manner affecting the
functioning of the drainage systems and continuing to affect the health of
these communities and the wider metropolitan population. This critical
deficiency in secondary collection is addressed under the proposed project.
6/ Project Performance Audit Report No. 4620 - June 30, 1983.



- 13 -
2.17      In summary, Bank experience with implementation in DRI Jakarta has
been mixed, but generally good where the local government has had a strong
commitment and close control over project management (e.g. Urban I, II and
III. The RIP has been successful and popular, especially when controlled and
implemented by local governments. OED reports also confirmed that the Jakarta
KIP unit (Bappem MHT), which consolidated implementation of this multisectoral
program has been a key element in the success of the program there and that
expansion and acceleration of the program nationwide has been due, in part to
the establishment of similar units elsewhere. By contrast, JSSP has
experienced serious problems due, in large part, to DRI Jakarta's inadequate
involvement. Under the Jabotabek Community and Environmental Improvement
Project, the community-based design of the RIP would address the shortcomings
of previous phases, particularly with regard to the design and maintenance of
MCKs and incorporation of a range of on-plot sanitation options together with
health information and education efforts for which participation from NGO's
will be mobilized.
C. Bank Strategy in the Sector
2.18      Planning and Implementation.  Bank strategy takes into account its
long association with the sector and GOI's current policies. Having
contributed to the formulation of GOI's sector strategy through tht' 1984 Urban
Services Sector Report (4800-IND, 1984) and subsequent studies supported
particularly under UrbaL IV (Ln. 1702-IND) and Urban V (Ln. 2408-IND), the
Bank fully supports the IUIDP approach adopted by GOI as the best way to
address urban sector issues in Indonesia in a coordinated and well-planned
manner. However, based on experience gained under the five completed and
eight ongoing projects, the Bank recognizes that implementation of the IUIDP
approach would require flexibility depending on the degree of institutional
capacity of individual local governments. For example, in provinces such as
East Java and Bali and large cities such as Surabaya and Semarang, where
institutional capacity is relatively more advanced, a programmatic or time-
slice type of operation through the IUIDP approach would be justified. This
approach could not be applied fully in provinces such as Irian Jaya and
Southeast Sulawesi, however, where institutional capacities are too weak. In
such cases, traditional project lending is called for focussed on a single or
selected group of subsectors such as water supply or a combination of RIP and
solid waste management. Jakarta and surrounding areas (Jabotabek) comprise a
special case, where subsectoral requirements are so large and complex that the
best approach would be to finance them separately or in groups.
2.19      Poverty.  Consistent with the findings of the Urban Services Sector
report, subsequent sector work and the GOI policy statement for the sector, a
high priority is attached to helping GOI to establish effective efforts
through community-based programs to alleviate poverty and assist the small
enterprise and informal business sector. Although the Jakarta area has a
relatively high-income level and share of public expenditures, its service
deficits are very high by comparison with other similar developing country
cities, particularly in view of the high expected population growth rate. The
Bank is therefore supporting a comprehensive and coordinated program to
improve service levels in transport (JUDP I), sewerage and sanitation (JSSP),



- 14 -
kampung improvement, solid waste management and pollution control (JUDP ITI)
and water supply (JUDP IT). As this program is largely financed through
borrowing by the local governments, the financial burden on the central
government is limited.
2.20      Finance.  The urban Services Sector Report emphasized the importance
of local resource mobilization and a rational system of transferring central
government funds to local governments. These issues continue to be key
strategic objectives and have shaped the Bank's position on local government
borrowing through the Regional Development Account (RDA). Given the sub-
stantial grant component of the financing system for local services in
Indonesia, the question of RDA's onlending rate must be viewed in the context
of overall sector finances.7/ Many local governments have little or no exper-
ience with credit financing - having preferred instead to rely on central
government transfers. This, in spite of the very low (2.5 to 42) or, in some
cases zero, interest rate terms on domestic loans until the last two years or
so. The initial RDA interest rate of 9Z reflects the widespread concern for
the need to induce local governments to adopt a more active borrowing posture,
within prudent limits. If GOI strategy, under Repelita V, of increasing the
relative importance of credit in the sector succeeds, it will help encourage
more efficient allocation of resources to and within the sector. The Bank
accepts the gradual approach initiated by government, and a 92 interest rate
represents progress over the lower overall cost of domestic credit to the
sector in the past. However, RDA's initial rate is well below market rates
and maintains a degree of interest rate segmentation which will inhibit the
ability of the sector to mobilize loan funds from domestic savings. If the
RDA is to play an effective role in financing local services without creating
distortions in financial policy, and consistent with other public sector
credit programs its financial policies must be increasingly guided by market
conditions. The Bank will support a program geared to measured progress
towards market-related rates of onlending by RDA. The Bank will also support
a concept of the RDA: (i) based on a strong capacity for economic and
financial evaluation of subprojects to be financed; and (b) independent of the
grants system providing an incremental source of financing for qualifying
local governments and projects - criteria for qualifications based on economic
and financial considerations.
2.21      Environment.  The Bank is committed to assisting GOI develop
economically-efficient approaches to urban and industrial pollution abatement.
The Third Urban Development Project is addressing the problem of environmental
degradation at the community level and provides assistance for strengthening
of local governments capacity to monitor pollution. A proposed Indus.rial
Efficiency and Pollution Control (IEPC) Project, which would build on efforts
to strengthen institutional capability for pollution control at the local
level through that project, and to establish a Pollution Control Authority at
the central level, also with Bank assistance, is under preliminary discussion
with GOI.
71   Central government grants finance less than 35? of DRI's general fund
operations compared to about 5SO in other large local governments and
over 70? for regional governments as a whole.



- i5 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin
3.1       By 1984, as noted earlier in pars 2.12, the RIP had covered most of
the existing Kampungs in Jakarta (see map 22130), and investments were
targeted on expansion of primary urban infrastructure systems in transport and
water supply in Jabotabek.   However, GOI has become increasingly concerned
that serious deficiencies remain in the coverage of key basic urban services
to low-income communities including sanitation, water distribution, micro-
drainage and access. Little has been achieved to strengthen the social and
economic base of these communities and additional upgrading is required. The
urgency of reactivating the KIP has also been heightened by the growth of
newly-formed Kampungs at the urban fringe. In addition, the need to stem the
serious environmental degradation in the Jakarta Region through better
arrangements for pollution control has been identified as a more pressing
concern of government.
3.2       The project was developed jointly by Cipta Rarya (Directorate of
Human Settlements, Ministry of Public Vorks), the Provinces of DKI Jakarta and
West Java and the local governments of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi. Criteria
and standards have been prepared for the program, and detailed engineering
designs have been finalized for the first-year batch of 10 districts (of a
total of 95 districts included in the project) together with preliminary
engineering designs for the second-year batch of 20 selected districts which
provide the basis for cost estimates. Consultant assistance has also been
extended to DKI Jakarta and Botabek to develop a strategic sanitation plan for
Jabotabek and formulate a priority program to improve solid waste service to
KIP areas and, thereby, to help end the practice of informal dumping.
Community development consultants (CDCs) who will work with Bappem MHT in DRI
Jakarta and Botabek local government staff have been retained to initiate a
more comuunity-based approach as a means of improving education to residents
in health practices and use and maintenance of facilities and to provide
extension service to these communities. Physical works in the first-year
batch of 10 districts in DXI Jakarta are underway. The Pollution Control
component was developed jointly by KLH, DRI Jakarta and West Java Province.
B. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3       The proposed project is designed to assist GOI efforts in Jabotabeks
(i) to introduce a more effective and sustainable approach to provision of
basic services, through extensive community participation and incorporation of
social and economic development in recognized low-income urban communities, as
a means of helping to alleviate poverty in metropolitan Jakarta; (ii) to
strengthen pollution control and environmental protection in the Jakarta
region; and (iii) to improve maintenance of existing infrastructure networks,
and provide a firmer basis for planning future development priorities.
Because of its long association with urban development efforts in Indonesia,
the Bank is well placed to help the government achieve these objectives.



- 16 -
Proiect Description
3.4       The project objectives would be achieved primarily by building on
existing programs and experience through:
A.   Rampung Improvement Program (US$74.8 million equivalent).  Upgrading
of low-income kampungs in Jabotabek areas - in 75 districts in DKI
Jakarta (US$63.6 million equivalent) and in 20 in Botabek (US$11.2
million equivalent). The program represents over 40Z of all
existing and recently-settled low-income kampungs requiring
upgrading based on surveyed deficiencies in basic services, and
would cover well over 1.5 million people (US$44 equivalent per
capita). Specifically, the program will provide basic infrastruc-
ture including water supply (in coordination with investments
financed under JUDP II), drainage (including linkages to the
secondary drainage system) and sanitation, primary collection of
household refuse through community management, access roads and
footpaths. Building on the experience of the earlier KIP, the
project will use a strong community-based approach to improve the
relevance and acceptability of KIP to the comnunities and, thereby,
help ensure that infrastructure and utility services provided are
adequately maintained. Community organization and social
development holds the key to revitalizing this priority program and
will, in each project site, precede and prepare the basis for
implementation of physical investments following which, community
development efforts will concentrate on ensuring that community
groups are sufficiently capable and motivated to maintain water and
sanitation facilities. A variety of appropriate, low-cost solutions
to improving sanitation would be utilized in line with population
density, prevailing ground conditions, etc. The project would
Improve health and social services through health education and
would strengthen land tenure for residents. Hak Guna Bangunan
(long-term renewable development and ownership rights) or Hak Pakai
(long-term rights of use) will be offered to those families
registered as occupying public land, thereby complementing pilot
efforts under the Bank's housing sector operations. $conomic
development efforts in project communities would be mounted includ-
ing access to small-scale credit (keyed to mobilization of
community-savings) and technical advice marketing, small-business
management and skills training, etc. Through the project, special
attention will be given to the needs of women in health education,
literacy training and small business development. The scale of the
program in terms of physical improvements is roughly in line with
past KIP efforts in DKI Jakarta before the recent slackening of the
program during Repelita IV. An overview of this component and
description of specific components are outlined in ANNEX 1;
B.   Priority Solid Waste Management (US$10.4 million equivalent).
Provision of equipment to extend secondary collection of household
refuse to the kampungs in the 75 districts to be upgraded in DKI
Jakarta together with 8 districts in priority flood-prone areas
through transportation, largely by private contractors, for final



- 17 -
disposal; cleaning up informal dump sites, particularly along
canals; and technical assistance to improve resource recovery
through waste materials separation programs. An overview of this
component and description of specific components are outlined in
ANNEX 2;
C.   Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (US$5.1 million
equivalent). (i) Institutional strengthening and training in
monitoring and enforcement for the responsible provincial agencies
in DRI Jakarta and West Java in coordination with initiatives at the
national level from RLH and Bappenas, together with equipment for
monitoring ambient water and air quality and waste discharges;
(ii) development of a natural resources inventory and formulation of
a pollution reduction strategy for the Jabotabek region; and
(iii) feasibility studies to prepare environmental oriented projects
for funding int (a) industrial joint waste treatment; and (b) high
polluting small-scale industries. An overview of this component,
the description of specific components and the linkages with other
Bank operations are outlined in ANNEX 3;
D.   Urban Spatial Management and Monitoring (US$4.5 million equivalent).
including assistance for: (i) updating of the Jabotabek Metropolitan
Development Plan - (JMDP); (ii) establishing a development
monitoring system; (iii) adding information to existing base maps
for development planning, tax administration and environmental
management in Botabek; and (iv) planning studies for urbanizing
fringe areas (see ANNEX 4). These studies, for which terms of
reference have been finalized, will complement efforts supported
under the USL I (La. 2816-IND) and efforts under the Bank's housing
sector operations.
E.   Infrastructure Maintenance (US$1.0 million equivalent).
Implementation of improved O&M in DRI Jakarta and the Botabek local
governments. The component is outlined in ANNEX 5. Terms of
reference for implementation support are being finalized.
F.   Project Coordination  (US$1.2 million equivalent).  Consulting
services for the Jabotabek Urban Project Coordination Office
(JUPCO).
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.1       The total project cost, as summarized in table 1 below, is estimated
at Rp 174.2 billion. (US$97.0 million) including taxes of Rp 15.4 billion.



- 18 -                               Table 4.1
INDONESIA
TRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUUP III
Project Cost Suary 1/
Rp                           U'                          I Totl
-                    --      --- -----------.'-------   11 Foreign         ease
Local  Foreign    Total       Local Foreign   Total    Exchango    Costs
A. KAPUNG IMPROVEMENT
1. KIP- FOR DKI-JAKARTA      62921.1  26116.6  89238.7         84.7    15.0    49.7         29.6     04.2
2. KIPl FOR KAB. sOCO         as94.4   1519.8   5508.6          2.2     0.9      8.1        27.0      4.0
8. KIP. FOR KAB. TANGERANM    8402.0   1815.2   4717.2          1.9     0.7      2.0        27.9      8.4
4. KIP. FOR KAD. BEXASI       4049.7   1469.9   5606.0          2.2     0.8      8.1        26.4      4.0
Sub-Total                       74857.2  8o60.9 104968.1         41.1    17.4    69.5          29.2     75.5
B. PRIORM  SOLID WASTE MIT.
1. SECONDARY COULECTION       6844.6   e896.5  11740.1          8.0     8.8      6.6        54.5      8.4
2. CLEAIP INFML.DUWP SITES    1911.4   1151.0   8068.0          1.1     0.7      1.7        87.6      2.2
8. RESOURCES RECVRY.PROJECT    292.4      0.0    282.4         0.2      0.0      0.2         0.0      0.2
Sub-TotUl 758.4   7547.1  15065.S                                4.2      4.2     6.4         50.0     10.9
C. POLL.CONTR.& ENVI.MONI1R.
1. INST.STREN.FOR MONITRNO.    575.8    6s6.0   1489.6         0.8      0.5     0.8         60.0      1.0
2. MONlTORING EWIPHENT :       676.8   884.4   4525.2          0.4      2.1      2.5        86.0      8.8
8. POLLUTION CONT. STRATEGY    622.7    784.1  10.9           0.8      0.4      O.7        60.0      0.9
4. INDUS.JT.VASTE TREATMENT    202.5    808.7    506.2         0.1      0.2      0.8        60.0      0.4
5. ASST.To SM.SCAL.HI.POLL.    1s9.8    292.9    488.2         0.1      0.2     0.8         60.0      0.4
s. HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILIT       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0
Sub-Total                        2176.1   6090.9   8266.0         1.2      8.4     4.6         78.7      5.9
0. URAN SPATIAL MANAGEMENT
1. UPDATDNG JMDP              1061.9   1577.7   2629.4         0.6      0.9     1.6         60.0      1.9
2. FRINGE AREA PLAN.(BOT)      612.6    919.2   1582.0         0.8      0.5     0.9         60.0      1.1
8. SOTABEK LAND DATABASE      1924.2    880.9   2806.1         1.1      0.5      1.6        81.4      2.0
Sub-Total                        865s.6   8877.7   696.6          2.0      1.9     8.9         48.6      5.0
E. INFRASIRUCT.1AINTENANCE
1. OKI JAKARTA                 449.6    416.1    864.7         0.8      0.2     0.5         46.0      0.6
2. DOTABEK                     440.8    824.9    765.2         0.2      0.2     0.4         42.5      0.6
Sub-Total                         689.8    740.1   1629.9         0.6      0.4     0.9         45.4      1.2
F. JUPCO RUNWINC COSTS            661.6   1292.4   2154.0         0.6      0.7     1.2         90.0      1.6
Total BASELINE COSTS            69411.0  49654.0 189065.0        49.4    28.1    77.6          80.2    100.0
Physical Contingencies        5772.8   3151.8   6928.6         3.2      1.8     5.0         85.8      6.4
Price Contingencis           19171.0   7040.2  26211.1        11.1      8.6    14.6         24.1     16.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS           114854.8  69845.6  174199.7       68.7    88.8    97.0         84.4    126.8
ValUe Sc3lcd by 1000000.0 - 1/2/1980 8:66
1/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at $8.6 million.



- 19 -
(US$8.6 million) and land acquisition of Rp 0.7 billion. (US$0.5 million).
Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at Rp 59.8 billion.
(US$33.3 million), 342 of total project costs. Cost estimates are based on
following: (i) on-site sanitation, on actual costs of sanitation components
built under the JSSP and Urban V Project; (ii) other KIP physical
infrastructure - on detailed designs for the first year of construction
(10 districts) and preliminary designs for the second year batch
(20 districts); (iii) social development and extension services manpower
requirements - experience with the UNDP-financed Community Water and
Sanitation Project; and (iv) 221 foreign person-months and 903 local
person/months of consultant assistance for project design and management and
for studies. Base costs have been updated to April, 1990 prices. Physical
contingencies are included at 102 for civil works under the RIP to allow for
site variations, and at 52 on equipment. Price contingencies totalling
Rp 26.2 billion (US$14.6 million) - 19? of base costs have been estimated at
5.42 for 1990 and 4.32 thereafter on foreign costs, and at TZ for 1990 and 62
thereafter on local costs.
B. Financina Plan, Flow of Funds and Onlendini terms
4.2       The project financing plan is summarized in ANNEX 9.  The Bank loan
of US$61 million would finance about 702 of total project costs (net of land
and taxes). Of the proceeds of the Bank Loan, US$54.8 million equivalent
would be onlent for: (i) implementation of KIP, priority solid waste
management, procurement of pollution monitoring equipment by DKI Jakarta and
technical assistance for project coordination (US$48.0 million equivalent);
and (ii) implementation of KIP by the Botabek level II local governments
(US$6.8 million equivalent'. US$4.1 million equivalent would be made
available to Cipta Karya to finance technical assistance for urban spatial
management; US$1.3 would b. made available to KLN directly, or through the
Ministry of Industry, to finance technical assistance for pollution control
and environmental monitoring; and US$0.8 million equivalent would be made
available to DGPUOD, MHA to finance implementation of improved O&M in DKI
Jakarta and Botabek. No disbursements from the proceeds of the Bank Loan
would be made against the small-scale credit component, which would be
financed directly from counterpart funds of respective local governments (see
para. 4.4 below). US$600,000 will be made available from the Japan
Environmental Grant Fund to finance institutional strengthening in pollution
monitoring and enforcement in the responsible provincial agencies. The Bank
Loan would include retroactive financing amounting to US$1.0 million
equivalent for consultant advisory services primarily for the RIP in the
Botabek local governments.
4.3       Onlending Terms  GOI will bear the foreign exchange and variable
interest rate risks, and will onlend the proceeds to the various executing
agencies at an interest rate of 9.25 percent per annum including a 0.25
percent bank fee (and a 0.752 commitment charge on disbursed amounts) for
twenty years including up to five years of grace. Subsidiary Loan Agreements
between GOI and DKI Jakarta, local governments of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi
were reviewed as satisfactory at negotiations. Execution of such Subsidiary
Loan Agreements will be a condition of Loan effectiveness.



- 20 -
4.4       Counterpart funds would be provided bys (i) GOI Rp 11.6 billion.
(US$6.5 million) for technical assistance and normal, prescribed central
government support to RIP; (i) DKI Jakarta Rp 47.6 billion. (US$26.5 million)
for KIP (including all funding for small-scale credit), priority solid waste,
pollution monitoring equipment and project coordination costs; (ii) level II
local governments of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi Rp 3.7 billion. (US$ 2.0
million) for KIP (including all funding for small-scale credit); and (iii)
West Java Province Rp 0.7 billion. (US$0.4 million) for RIP in Botabek.
Assurances were received at negotiations to the timely provision of
counterpart funds.
4.5       Cost Recoverv.  Following established policy for KIP in upgrading
low-income settlements, costs of basic public infrastructure will not be
recovered directly from beneficiaries. However, higher property valuations of
upgraded areas would subsequently result in increased tax revenue to the local
governments, partially offsetting the investment costs. Individual on-plot
sanitation facilities would provide a higher level service and would be cost
recoverable through provision of home improvement loans. Terms for small-
business loans will be consistent with similar existing credit arrangements
currently repayable over 5 years at 2Z per month. Loans for on-plot
sanitation would carry a lower interest rate in order to promote these lower-
cost technologies rather than central sewer systems which have not been cost
recoverable to date. Water and sanitation associations will be established
which will organize or contract out the operation of public water taps and
public toilets (MCK-MMCK) and collect revenues to cover the operating costs of
these facilities. However, the possible need to moderate user charges is
under review to ensure that they do not continue to limit access by the target
lowest-income segments of communities involved. Solid waste investments would
be recovered through service charges and local taxes. Technical assistance
costs would not be recovered. At negotiations, these cost recovery
arrangements, which have been incorporated into the Implementation Action Plan
(IAP) and the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for KIP - to be entered into
between GOI and each participating local government, were reviewed as
satisfactory.
C. Financial Impact for Participating Local Governments
4.6       The design of a Revenue Improvement Action Plan (RIAP) under JUDP I
is nearing completion and DKI Jakarta is poised to improve resource
mobilization (para 4.9). Similar measures are expected to be introduced in
Botabek local governments under the upcoming ADB-financed Botabek Urban
Development Project. Strengthening local finances in Jabotabek is not,
therefore, an explicit objective under this project. The project represents a
relatively modest component of the investment program in DKI Jakarta's overall
development program, but is more significant for the Botabek local
governments. However, because of the lack of direct cost recovery for project
investments, a review was made to ensure that the financial impact of the
project is manageable.
4.7       DRI Jakarta continues to dominate local finances in Jabotabek, even
though much of the recent growth in the metropolitan area has occurred at the
urban fringe and central grants represent a substantially lower proportion



- 21 -
(342) of its General Fund revenues than for local governments generally (74X).
DKI Jakarta's 1989190 budget of Rp 623 billion, was more than ten times the
combined budgets of the three adjacent local governments. At Rp 6 billion per
year, debt service obligations represent less than 202 of DXI Jakarta's
prescribed legal limit.
4.8       Targets established under JUDP T (Loan 2932-IND) called for real
growth in property taxes of 132 in real terms and of 11 (20? and 181 nominal)
in other local taxes and charges. At a nominal 7X, recent growth In local
taxes and cLarges administered by DRI Jakarta barely kept pace with :nflation.
At the same time, however, the property tax, administered by the Ministry of
Finance, increased by a nominal 48S between PY1986/67 and 1987188, and a
further 24? to 1988189.
4.9       Financial projections for DKI Jakarta's overall operations during
the period covered by the project and beyond are illustrated in ANNEX 7, Table
1. These projections call for increased collection efficiency rather than
increased tax rates and incorporate growth in own source revenues of about
17?, in line with expected growth in regional GDP. Property taxes are assumed
to increase by about 25S per year in line with recent trends. This is a
conservative estimate given the major effort now under way to expand the
cadastre and update values in Jakarta. Despite the low effective property tax
rate of 0.1?, no increase in the tax rate is anticipated though consideration
is being given to increasing the assessment ratio from the present 20Z.
Central government grants for personnel and administration are assumed not to
increase in real terms at all, and development grants are assumed to add about
152 to DKI Jakarta's contributions to capital outlays. Routine (recurrent)
expenditures are projected to continue to grow at 15? per year. Under this
scenario, about 42X of regular routine revenues would be transferred to the
development budget and investment resources available during the project
implementation period through 1994195 would amount to around Rp 2,000 billion.
4.10      In response to the extensive deficits in public infrastructure and
services, however, investment expenditures are slated to increase by about 202
per year amounting to over Rp 3,335 billion for the period 1990/91 through
1994195 including some Rp 340 billion for JUDP T, JUDP TI and this project.
4.11      To assess the prospects of supporting this proposed investment
level, a number of financing strategies were reviewed, viz: (a) increasing
local resource mobilization; (b) borrowing for additional funding
requirements; and (c) a blend of (a) and (b). ANNEX 7, Tables 3 to 5 indicate
the impact of these alternatives. Alternative (a) calls for local revenues to
increase by about 25? per year or about 502 more than in the base case
summarized above. Whilst, the design of a RIAP is being finalized under JUDP
I which should expand on this base case, the administrative improvements
required will inevitably take time to become effective. Alternative (b)
indicates that, in view of the low level of existing indebtedness and debt
servicing, the entire additional resources required could be borrowed within
the presently prescribed limits. However, sensitivity analysis indicates that
a more balanced, manageable and prudent strategy of financing the additional
investment needs would involve 601 from additional resource mobilization and
40? from borrowing, including the Bank Loan (ANNEX 7, Tables 2 & 5).



- 22 -
4.12      Botabek Local Governments.  The substantial financial impact of
development on the metropolitan fringe has not been evenly distributed. In
recent years, local revenues have grown annually by an average of 25? in
Bogor, 14Z in Bekasi and 391 in Tangerang. Thus, whilst recurrent
expenditurestcapita fall within a consistent range in all three local
governments, own revenues/capita are now about one third higher in Bogor, and
almost two thirds higher in Tangerang, than in Bekasi. Central government
grants have played a significant role in equalizing these resources and have
constituted about 43? of total annual revenues in Tangerang to almost 60? in
Bekasi. Development expenditures have grown only slowly, however, and
considerable additional borrowing capacity is available. The use of loan
financing in a planned and systematic way, including under the project, will
significantly increase the investment potential. Only a minor share of the
project is in Botabek. Projections (see ANNEX 7, Tables 6 to 9) indicate that
the project would represent a modest proportion of overall investment
resources (52 in Bogor; 7? in Tangerang; and 112 in Bekasi) leaving room for
substantial additional, as yet unprogrammed investment, but would absorb a
significant proportion of legal borrowing capacity increasing to 24? in Bogor,
to 39? in Tangerang and to 42? in Bekasi. However, as indicated in para. 1.7
above, upcoming changes in regulations will significantly increase the
absorption capacity for debt service obligations generally.
V. EXECUTING AGENCIES AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.1       Overall Proiect Coordination.  The project coordination and
monitoring office (JUPCO) has proven effective in its prescribed role under
JUDP I, and has matured sufficiently to accommodate an expanded scope of
oversight. A two level organizational structure will therefore be established
in JUPCO to: i) retain the high level Technical Committee with representation
from central ministzies and constituent local governments to provide a forum
for policy formulation, reviewing and resolving interinstitutional issues and
ensuring cross-project linkages are addressed; and ii) a technical staff
divided into three divisions to coordinate overall programming and
implementation of JUDP I, JUDP II and this project respectively. The need to
create a new agency will thus be avoided and a proven institutional mechanism
is being mobilized to provide the required level of coordination within and
between this package of Bank-financed investment programs.
5.2       The division for this project will consolidate and analyze
monitoring information from the various Project Management Units (PMUs) and
prepare regular progress reports, project accounts and project audits,
periodic evaluation reports, status of procurement and disbursement
operations, updating of project costs and financial forecasts, and report on
the status of covenants for review and action by the concerned managers.
JUPCO would have an important overall review function to foresee potential
delays, alert PMUs and suggest corrective action and coordination with JUDP
II. JUPCO would also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of the
Project Completion Report and will work closely with line agencies in DKI
Jakarta, West Java and the central government in preparing future phases of
regional efforts in poverty alleviation and environmental management.



- 23 -
Consultants would assist JUPCO with its expanded role in overall project
coordination, monitoring and project accounting. The organizational structure
for the project is illustrated in ANNEX 13.
5.3       The JUPCO technical staff would also have regular briefing meetings
with the Jabotabek Planning Team (BKSP) to inform them of progress in areas of
possible overlap, particularly for the policy and planning studies under this
project and JUDP II.
5.4       The first Jabotabek Urban Development Project was concerned almost
entirely with DRI Jakarta, and JUPCO was established by a decree of the
Governor of Jakarta. This project and JUDP II incorporate development efforts
in the adjacent jurisdictions and it will be necessary to reconstitute JUPCO
by a new decree to specify JUPCO's expanded responsibilities, establish tne
respective divisions and define the nature of the relationship between JUPCO
and BKSP. Confirmation was received at negotiations: (i) on the provisions of
a draft new decree to revise the organization and staffing structure of the
expanded JUPCO and to establish the division for the project; and (il) the
coordinating division for the project will be established and key positions,
vit: the Division Manager, the Financial Accountant and the Monitoring Officer
will be staffed prior to loan effectiveness.
5.5       Project Planning and Linkages with JUDP II.  Depending on a number
of factors such as the location of individual districts, current level and
mode of supply and proximity of the PDAM Jaya distribution network, provision
of water supply under the project could be made in a number of ways: (i)
construction of water tanks and supply by trucks on the outer fringes where
water is currently sold by vendors and groundwater is unsuitable for
consumption; (ii) groundwater development in areas where the quality remains
suitable; and (iii) connection to the existing or planned PDAM Jaya
distribution system. PDAM JAYA will finance and supervise implementation of
water supply improvements in kampungs which fall within its service area, and
close linkages and synchronization are necessary between the programming of
RIP improvements under the project and expansions in the service distribution
network of PDAM Jaya under JUDP II. Micro-drainage improvements also rely on
the secondary drainage system functioning adequately, and on the major
drainage improvement works on canals under JUDP II to ensure that efforts to
clean up informal garbage dumps along these water courses under this project
are effective. In addition, important linkages exist between the pollution
control and spatial planning activities under the project and the ground water
and water resources management studies in JUDP II. These linkages will be
reflected in the monitoring and coordination functions of JUPCO.
5.6       Executive management and implementation of the RIP, solid waste
management and pollution control components will be under the respective
regional governments as set out below.8/
8/   With regard to the RIP in the BOTABEK local governments, whilst implemen-
tation will be at the level I1 local government level, a project
Management Unit (PMU) will be established under the Bappeda in West Java
Province. Guidance and oversight will also be provided by DGCK.



- 24 -
A. The Comprehensive Kampung Improvement Program (RIP)
Institutional/Organizational Framework
5.7       The following detailed arrangements are described for DRI Jakarta.
Similar arrangements have also been agreed with other Botabek local
goverNments. The program will be guided by a Steering Committee (SC) which
will: (i) establish policies for the program; (ii) agree on selection of
kampungs for improvement; (iii) resolve problems of inter-departmental
coordination; (iv) expedite any land acquisition requirements; (v) ensure that
the project management and implementation units are adequately staffed; and
(vi) refer any larger policy issues arising to the DRI Jakarta governing
council as appropriate. In DKI Jakarta, the SC will be chaired by the Vice
Governor for Development (EKBANG), with members representing: the Sekwilda,
Bappeda and assistant Sekwilda together with the local Bureau for Population
and the Environment (BKLH); Social Development Bureau; Town Planning
Department*- etc. heads of other DRI Jakarta agencies which have direct
involvement in the program including the five Walikota (district mayors). The
SC will be assisted by a Technical Team representing Bappeda and the various
DKI Jakarta sectoral agencies involved including the Bappem HHT which would
act as secretariat. In BOTABEK, an SC will also be established chaired by
West Java Province and representing the constituent local governments together
with Perumahan (the government's housing agency) and other national agencies
involved.
5.8       DKI Jakarta has issued decree SK.814 (June, 1989) to Implement the
new, more comprehensive RIP. Modifications to this SX to give adequate
emphasis to the community and social development aspects and to authorize
staffing and organizational arrangements required have been agreed. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that issuance of the modified SR Guburnor in DKI
Jakarta will be a condition of Board Presentation, and that issuance of the
SKs Bupati will be a condition of disbursement on KIP in each respective
Botabek local government.
5.9       Management Arrangements.  The consolidated management approach to
the RIP through the role of Bappem MHT, which proved successful during the
early phases of the program in DRI Jakarta, was not retained during Repelita
IV. The fragmentation which resulted slowed the program and created confusion
and increased disruption in the communities affected, and inhibited their
ability to participate in planning and prioritizing improvements. To support
the new community-based approach, overall management responsibility and
coordination of project activities at the community level will again be
consolidated in Bappem MHT. As the PMU for KIP in DRI Jakarta, Bappem MHT
will develop and monitor an annual program and budget for approval of the SC
and will channel funds for all infrastructure components (except for water
supply within PDAM Jaya's service area) and sanitation improvements. As the
Project Impiementing Unit (PIU) for local works under the program, Bappem MHHT
Oversight and coordination of the pollution control component will be
provided by KLH.



- 25 -
will a'lso directly implement roads and drains, community organization and
health education efforts under the program, and will coordinate implementation
of other activities including water supply, sanitation and solid waste
improvements by responsible agencies in DKI Jakarta.
5.10      At present, Bappem MHT has 146 staff, of which 46 are contract
supervisors. Most of the staff are site planners and engineers and are
familiar with implementation of the earlier, infrastructure-oriented KIP in
DKI Jakarta. Bappem MET will operate through divisions for: (a) Program
Planning; (b) Physical Infrastructure; (c) Socio-economic (Community
Management); and (d) Finance, Monitoring and Administration. Given the multi-
sectoral character of KIP, Bappem MHT has reorganized its planning and
implementation procedures to emphasize community development and participation
in the program, and will expand and diversify its staff through secondment
from sectoral agencies in DKI Jakarta to: (i) ensure adequate overall
management of project sites; (ii) include community development officers who
will also manage Community Development Consultants (CDCs); (iii) expand health
education and information; and (iv) handle group and individual sanitation and
home improvement needs. Agreement was reached at negotiations to the staffing
schedules and training programs in DKI Jakarta, and that they would be defined
on a timely basis in relation to the implementation schedule for KIP in the
Botabek local governments.
Implementation at the Community Level
5.11      The new approach to KIP calls for more emphasis on community
mobilization, interaction and commitment as a means of helping to avoid
previous problems in the planning, management and maintenance of community
health, water supply 3nd sanitation facilities.
5.12      In each community, therefore, KIP will be implemented in three
stages starting with an all-important range of activities including:
(i) community organization and leadership training; (ii) formation of water
and sanitation users' associations and sanitation action planning;
(iii) health information and education; and (iv) skills training,
strengthening of cooperatives and other Community Based Financial Institutions
(CBFIs) for business promotion. Following adequate progress on these first-
phase activities, the second stage involving implementation of physical works
would commence. The final stage involves consolidation of maintenance
management arrangements. Similarly, the process of community participation
will comprise three stages: (i) the organization stage; (ii) the stabilization
stage; and (iii) the turnover/disengagement stage (community management). A
full transition to this approach will take some time. The first year batch of
10 sites did not benefit fully from this approach and will need to be
"retrofitted" with the social development activities as a basis for
implementing the basic water supply and sanitation improvements, the sustained
impact of which depends most on community participation. The second year
batch of twenty sites will proceed more in line with the new approach which
will then be applied to subsequent phases on a routine basis. Agreement was
reached at negotiations on the provisions of a model Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) to be entered into by GOI and the responsible local
government with each beneficiary community which will incorporate these



- 26 -
implementation arrangements as a basis for, and prior to, commencing works.
Agreement vas also reached that the Bank will be given an opportunity, during
the annual program review (see par& 5.29), to review and comment on the HoU
for individual project sites.
5.13      GOl policy for KIP now calls for involvement of government agencies
at the neighborhood level and assistance from community-based voluntary
organizations to reinforce the capability and expertise of the local
governments as needed. The Lurah or Kepala Desa (local government district
office), together with neighborhood leaders (RWs and RTs), the village
development council (LKMD) and the Family Welfare Movement (PKK) will all play
important roles in KIP. While this approach takes more time in the initial
stages, experience in Indonesia confirms that it results in better community
commitment to the project and greater sustainability of the improvements
provided. Community participation will be strengthened in two ways. First, a
project committee will be formed in each kampung with strong representation
from the LKMD, the PKK and the Lurah. Second, and in areas where community
development is particularly critical, and the LIXD is less active, DKI Jakarta
will involve local private voluntary organizations and/or Community
Development Consultants (CDCs), a number of which have already demonstrated
proven experience in community development work, to assist the project
committees and provide extension and technical assistance at the field level.
To ensure continuity and effective working relationships with the community,
Bappem MHT will establish project teams to manage and provide assistance to
each site. These teams will include a core staff comprising a team leader, a
Community Development Officer and an planner/engineer, together with periodic
inputs from specialized technical staff (e.g. health, solid wastes etc.). The
project team will cover all development functions from initial contact with
the community through design and implementation. Each site office at the
kecamatan level will be headed by the Camat and at the districts level by the
Lurah who will be the principal point of interaction with the communities.
The final layouts will be prepared following close consultation with the
community planning committees (or community working groups) which have been
established at the site level.
5.14      With regard to physical investments in general, the Bappem MHT would
coordinate the contracting of the public infrastructure components which will
be built by private contractors and including labor from within the
communities. Households will construct the private sanitation facilities and
other home improvements with technical assistance from the project teams and
credit under the project.
Program Scale, Criteria for Site Selection
5.15      Based on surveys in DKI Jakarta, and in spite of previous phases of
the ZIP, some 110 districts, of a total 240, have been identified as being
substantially deficient in a range of basic urban infrastructure and utility
services. Of these, 75 district have been selected for priority treatment
under the current program on the basis of: (i) population; (ii) water supply
and environmental sanitation conditions; (iii) health conditions: (iv) housing
conditions; (v) family income levels; (vi) geographical location; and
(vii) priorities based on the Jakarta Master Plan. These criteria will be



- 27 -
simplified somewhat in order to emphasize specific service deficiencies,
income levels, demonstrated community initiative and commitment to the program
(formation of water user's associations, etc.) and minimal disturbance to
existing families and structures. This will help ensure that the selection
criteria are transparent and well understood by the communities so as to
maintain the integrity of the program and to sustain community support for it.
Priority in the program will be accorded to the most deficient districts and,
within each district, to the depressed and low-income kampungs. At
negotiations, these site selection criteria, to be applied by DKI Jakarta and
Botabek local governments, and the institutional arrangements for review and
oversight were agreed and incorporated into the Implementation Action Plan
(IAP) and the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU).
5.16      Investment Priorities  The range of physical components will vary
depending on the particular characteristics of individual sites (see ANNEX 1).
The instrument for formulating programs will be the identification by the
communities, with assistance from the project teams, of priority needs
together with an implementation action plan. As part of the budget
coordination (Rakorbang) process, these preliminary proposals will be reviewed
by Bappem MWT, in consultation with the Technical Team representing all
involved sectors, for consistency with KIP objectives and in order to fashion
sound technical solutions, particularly for sanitation. Proposals will be
translated into aggregate annual programs with financial and implementation
resource budgets for SC approval. Similar arrangements for site selection and
prioritization of investments will apply in Botabek areas.
5.17      Small-scale credit would be made available to individuals and group
water and sanitation users associations, for home improvements and for small-
business support. Credit would be channelled by a banking institution through
Community-based Financial Institutions (CBFIs) - credit unions/cooperatives -
which would be accredited on the basis of their proven experience in managing
these small-scale credit programs and, more importantly, their ability to
mobilize savings at the community level as a means of sustaining access to
credit over the long-term. Indeed, provision of revolving loan funds to these
CBFIs under the project would be conditioned on, and collateralized by,
mobilization of a threshold level of community savings. At negotiations, the
institutional arrangements for small-scale credit and the criteria for
accrediting participating CBFIs and for approval of loans were confirmed and
incorporated into the Implementation Action Plan (IAP) and the Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU).
5.18      Maintenance and O2eration.  As in the past, larger-scale
infrastructure (roads, main drainage and deep wells) will be maintained by the
responsible local government departments (Dinas P.U.). Micro-infrastructure
(footpaths, local drainage and garbage bins) will be organized by LKMD within
the community and financed through periodic community contributions.
Equipment for primary solid waste collection (handcarts) will be maintained by
Dinas Kebersihan. Trucks for secondary collection will be maintained by
private contractors and Dinas Kebersihan, for trucks operated by it. Existing
public toilets and washing facilities (MCK-MMCK) will be rehabilitated
wherever possible to avoid building new ones unnecessarily. They will be
maintained by the water and sanitation users associations established for this



- 28 -
purpose and financed through user charges. However, local governments will
implement a program of septic tank emptying for MCKs in their jurisdictions.
The associations will also remit the necessary water charges to the PDAMs.
Water reticulation systems will be maintained by the PDAM. Individual family
and group family toilets will be maintained by the respective families (who
will also pay user charges to PD)AM where individual water connections are
made). The social facilities (schools, health clinics) will be maintained and
operated by the responsible Dinas. These arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations.
5.19      Land Acquisition and Resettlement.  No land is required for the
first year batch of 10 sites. Land required in subsequent annual batches for
roads and drainage rights of way and sites for social facilities and public
sanitation units will be acquired through existing local government land
acquisition committees, with Bappem MHT representation. Following present
practice, land is expected to be donated by owners vho benefit from the
adjacent improvements. In line with GOI policy, every effort will be made to
minimize relocation and disturbance to households. Displaced families will
eithers Mi) be resettled in equally good locations or close to the existing
community and compensated for loss of buildings and equipment or (ii) where
appropriate resettlement sites are not available, receive full cash
compensation based on consultation with families affected, taking into account
the status of occupancy and the value of land, structures and facilities.
Families will also be provided with assistance in livelihood rehabilitation.
However, very little call for compensation has been needed in the past, even
in the dense, center-city sites. Due to careful site planning and minimum
engineering standards, and because the need for access roads in the dense
central sites has already been attended to in previous phases of the RIP,
displacement of families in the project areas is expected to be far less than
0.5? of the resident population. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
kampungs improved under the project will be protected from major redevelopment
for a period of at least ten years, and that the Bank will be given an
opportunity, during the annual program review, to comment on the resettlement
plans for KIP sites under the project.
B. Priority Solid Waste Management
5.20      Dinas Kebersihan, DKI Jakarta will be responsible for the solid
waste management component includings (i) setting up transfer stations,
secondary collection from the 75 district included in the KIP component and
transportation and disposal; (ii) cleaning up informal dump sites primarily
along canals and preventing indiscriminate dumping in future; and (iii)
stabilizing and closing down existing dump sites. With a view to maximizing
productivity in secondary collection, DRI Jakarta will invite competitive bids
from private contractors for transportation to the disposal site. To
facilitate this private sector participation, contractors will be given the
opportunity to lease equipment to be procured under the project. Contractors
will benefit from the residual value in the equipment at the end of the lease,
thereby providing an incentive for them to maintain the equipment adequately
(under the terms of the lease) and ensuring less down-time and a longer
effective vehicle operating life than the present four years for this kind of



- 29 -
equipment in DRI Jakarta. More intensive monitoring systems are to be
instituted by Dinas Kebersihan to ensure that contractors perform
satisfactorily and that garbage is transported to the designated controlled
dump site for final disposal. Agreement was reached at negotiations to the
draft model contract for secondary collection by private contractors,
including the terms and conditions of equipment leasing. Confirmation was
also received that the disposal site (at Bekasi) will be operated as a
controlled landfill; that measures will be taken to minimize possible harmful
effects of its operation and that the surrounding air and water quality would
be monitored.
C. Environmental Protection and Pollution Control.
5.21      For the environmental protection component, DKI Jakarta and West
Java Province have each formed teams chaired by the respective Bappedas with
membership from the Dinas Tata Kota (city planning office), the BKLH
(provincial level office of KLH) and the laboratories (P4L in DKI Jakarta and
IHE in Bandung). The Directorate Tata Kota dan Daerah (City and Regional
Planning Office - DGKTD) in Cipta Karya will also be a member on the teams.
The teams will: (i) develop, in conjunction with KLW, proposals for
institutional and management arrangements for the pollution control strategy
and enforcement at the provincial level including additional staffing
requirements; (ii) update the natural resources base of the JMDP and develop
an information base of pollution sources; (iii) develop an environmental
management and a pollution control strategy for Jabotabek; and (iv) guide the
implementation of studies on management of industrial pollution and wastes.
Training will be provided under the project to strengthen the environmental
monitoring and enforcement capability of these responsible institutions at the
provincial level.
5.22      It is clear that environmental protection is at a very early stage
in Jabotabek. Currently, only 130 of an estimated 4000 polluting enterprises
are monitored and only a handful have agreed waste reduction plans with the
Provincial Government responsible. At present, targets for environmental
improvement can only consist of key annual milestones for planning and
implementation includings (i) registration of polluters; (ii) agreed pollution
reduction plans; (iii) number of firms self-monitoring; and (iv) number of
firms monitored by responsible agencies. The institutional development
objective of the project is to initiate the process. Moreover, until clear
standards are prescribed by the Central Government, and in the absence of a
strong legal framework, the effectiveness of efforts under the project to
strengthen institutional capability at the provincial level for monitoring
and, in particular, enforcement of pollution controls could be limited.
Confirmation was received at negotiations that the Bank will be given an
opportunity to review and comment on the pollution control strategy and other
special topic studies.



- 30 -
D. Urban Soatial Management
5.23      The Directorate Tata Kota dan Daerah (City and Regional Planning
Office - DGKTD) will be responsible for updating the JMDP, defining spatial
planning priorities for the urbanizing fringe within the BOTABER local
governments, and updating the data base for land administration in BOTABER.
Terms of reference are being finalized for the technical assistance required.
E. Improved Infrastructure O&M
5.24      DKI Jakarta and constituent local governments in BOTABEK will be
responsible for introducing improved maintenance management systems for
existing infrastructure networks and improvements under this project and
beyond. The Directorate General Local Administration (DGPUOD), MHA will
oversee the provision of technical assistance to the regional governments for
this purpose. Terms of reference are being finalized for the technical
assistance required.
F. Implementation Schedule
5.25      The project overall will be implemented over a six-year period from
1990 through 1995 in accordance with the overall project implementation
schedule, shown in ANNEX 10. Considering past implementation experience of
DKI Jakarta, the area coverage proposed to be implemented under the RIP
appears feasible. At its height During Repelita 1II, DKI Jakarta's RIP
program covered 700-900 hectares per year (150,000-300,000 persons). The
current program has been scaled at a lower implementation rate to allow for
the three year development process to take place so as to ensure sufficient
attention is given to social and community development activities as the
wleading edge, of the KIP. First year implementation already underway covers
about 345 hectares (8.6? of the total) - between 75,000 to 150,000 persons.
5.26      For RIP in Botabek, the time-frame for implementation has been
designed to start the community development and preparatory work during
1990/91 with physical implementation to start in full during 1991J92. This
has been conceived to ensure that the necessary organization and management
arrangements are in place. Through JUPCO, close coordination will be
established between DKI Jakarta and Botabek to gain from the experience of
first year sites in DKI Jakarta.
5.27      Equipment for secondary collection of solid waste in DKI Jakarta
will be procured during the first two years. Feasibility studies and
monitoring equipment for pollution control will also be procured within the
first two years, but technical assistance for upgrading the monitoring and
enforcement capability of the provincial agencies will continue throughout the
project.
G. Proiect Supervision and Monitoring by the Bank
5.28      In view of the diversity of the project overall, and the innovations
involved in the more comprehensive approach to RIP and the use of a three-year
implementation cycle which concentrates initially on social development in the



- 31 -
selected kampungs, it would be prudent to plan on an intensive level of Bank
supervision of about 15 staff weeks per year, at least during the initial two
years when: (a) incorporating community development as the 'leading edge' of
the RIP will be most important (para 5.11 and 5.12); (b) private sector
participation in secondary collection under the priority solid waste component
is being initiated (para 5.20); and (c) institutional strengthening for
pollution control is started, the pollution control strategy is being
formulated and monitoring targets are being defined (para 5.22).
5.29      A formal annual review, in which the Bank would participate, would
represent an essential element of the Bank's supervision strategy for the
project. It r-ould be based on the September progress report and would provide
an opportunity to: 1i) review performance; (ii) assess problems and issues
arising in implementation and help identify remedial actions required; and
(iii) define future implementation and performance targets for the various
components of the project as appropriate. JUPCO would be responsible for
preparing and submitting the quarterly reports on the basis of input from the
various Project Management Units (PMUs) and Project Implementation Units
(PIUs) of the Agencies and Departments of the Borrower's Central and Local
Governments implementing the project. The report would include sections on
physical and financial progress of each sub-project; progress on the
Implementation Action Plan (IAP) for the KIP in DRI Jakarta and Local
governments of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi; technical assistance; compliance
with Loan covenants; administration and finance including project costs,
commitment and disbursement schedules and counterpart funding; monitoring of
executive actions to be taken by implementing agencies; and linkages between
the proposed Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP II) and this
Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP III), particularly with regard
to synchronization of water distribution works programmed under the proposed
JUDP II and the KIP under this JUDP III.
5.30      With regard to the KIP, annual reviews will, in addition to
monitoring the physical and financial implementation of the KIP, focus on new
features of the program including, in particular: (i) progress in formation of
water and sanitation users associations; (ii) health education; (iii) growth
in the mobilization of community savings and participation of Community-based
Financial Institutions (CBFIs) in small-scale credit programs;
(iv) performance in matching low-cost sanitation technologies with prevailing
conditions: and (v) the effectiveness of conmmunity development and training
efforts and the role of Community-based Organizations in particular. With
regard to the solid waste management component, the progress report and Bank
supervision will focus on the effectiveness of efforts to secure a significant
level of private sector participation, the results of monitoring efforts by
DKI Jakarta (Dinas Kebersihan) to ensure that contractors perform
satisfactorily and implementation of environmentally sound arrangements for
landfill disposal. With regard to environmental protection and pollution
control, the progress report will indicate the increasing number of firms
being monitored and arrangements for enforcement in the event of lack of
compliance with prescribed pollution control standards. Confirmation of these
arransements was received at negotiations.



-32-
R. Procurement and Disbursement
Table 5.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Million) la
Expenditure                    Procurement Procedure
Category                   ICB       LCB             Other         Total
Civil Works                          44.8              7.9         52.7
(23.8)           (4.2)       (28.0)
Goods                       9.6       1.9                          11.5
(8.5)     (1.7)                       (10.2)
Consultant services &
training                                           25.9          25.9 lb
(22.8)       (22.8)
Small-scale Credit                                    6.4           6.4
C-)          C-)
Land                                                  0.5           0.5
s-)          (-)
Total                  9.6      46.7            40.7          97.0
(8.5)    (25.5)          (27.0)       (61.0)
la  Amounts in parentheses are Bank Loan amounts, but excludes cofinancing
from the Japan Grant Fund.
Lb   Implementation support (in US$ million)--for KIP: design and supervisiov
3.7, program management and monitoring 1.8, sociallhealth support and
training 8.7, economic development support and training 3.5; technical
assistance --for infrastructure O&M 0.8, urban spatial management 3.7,
pollution control 2.1, resource recovery (SWM) 0.3, and overall project
coordination 1.2.
5.31      Procurement.  Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
above. Contracting of civil works (estimated at US$53 million equivalent)
under the project would be carried out by DKI Jakarta and the respective
Botabek local governments. Of this amount, it is anticipated that about 152
would be awarded for labor only contracts. Equipment for solid waste
management (estimated at US$5.1 million equivalent) would be procured by Dinas
Kebersihan, DXI Jakarta and for monitoring air and water quality by P4L, DKI
Jakarta (estimated at US$3.0 million equivalent). Implementation support for
KIP and technical assistance for urban spatial management, pollution control,
solid wastes resources recovery and project coordination (estimated at US$14
million equivalent - 142 of project tost and 22Z of the Bank Loan) would be
procured by the responsible local and central government agencies.
Implementation of training, motivation and health education etc. for social



- 33 -
and economic development of KIP (estimated at US$11.9 million equivalent) will
be contracted directly by the responsible Provincial Governments.
5.32      For KIP, civil works contracts will, to the extent practicable, be
packaged on an area basis to include the variety of components (water supply,
drainage, footpaths, etc.) within kampungs targeted under the project. Even
so, in view of the modest scale (expected to average less than US$70,000
equivalent) and the widespread distribution of infrastructure investments
under the RIP, foreign contractors are not expected to be attracted to
participate in bidding for civil works. Civil works contracts will therefore
be awarded through local competitive bidding by pre-qualified contractors in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Pre-qualification
procedures will be monitored by GOT to ensure that they do not discriminate
against the use of 'labor only" contracts so as to promote the use of
community labor and self-help.  For DKI Jakarta, procurement guidelines were
recently strengthened by issue of Governor's decrees (SKs) Mos. 500/1988 and
50111989. Equipment for solid waste management will be procured through LCB
for small items (handcarts etc.) and offico equipment to the value of US$1.9
million equivalent in total and through ICB for trucks and heavy equipment.
Pollution monitoring equipment and other equipment with a contract value of
over US$200,000 will also be procured through ICB. Consultant services will
be contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines. For consultants (including
CDCs) for the community development and training activities under RIP, the
Bank would review, ex-ante, the standard terms of reference and form of
contract. The government would select and contract following local procedures
which have been reviewed as satisfactory, and would hold contract
documentation for Bank review.
5.33      Procurement Reviews.  In view of the small scale of the civil works
under the RIP, and the considerable experience of DKI Jakarta implementation
under previous Bank-financed projects, prior review by the Bank of civil works
would not normally be sought. However, because of recent refinements to the
procurement arrangements in Bappem MHT, Bank prior review for the first five
civil works contracts over US$75,000 equivalent is to be sought.
Subsequently, procurement will be reviewed by JUPCO which will periodically
furnish the Bank with a commentary on bidding and contract award as part of
the regular quarterly progress reports for the project. Bidding documents for
equipment contracts for ICB (including trucks for priority solid wastes and
most of the pollution control equipment) would be subject to prior review by
the Bank.
5.34      At negotiations, agreement was reached on these arrangements and
that the Bank would have prior review of procurement documents for the first
five civil works contracts over US$75,000. Confirmation was also received
that satisfactory standard bidding documents used under JUDP I for ICB and LCB
for equipment and LCB for civil works would be used for this project.
Agreement was also reached that, with regard to the procurement of vehicles
and equipment, in particular for solid waste management, import licenses would
be issued on a timely basis, but no later than the date of contract signing,
in the event of contract award to a foreign bidder, and that this would be
stipulated in the invitation to bid.



- 34 -
5.35      Disbursements.  To avoid disbursement delays, a Special Account
would be opened in Bank Indonesia by the Ministry of Finance for the purpose
of the project. The Special Account would be used for withdrawals in all
categories elating to: (a) local currency expenditures for contracts to be
paid wholly or partly in local currencyt and (b) foreign-currency expenditures
for training and other small items below US$75,000 equivalent. The account
would be maintained in US$ and an initial deposit of US$3.0 million
(equivalent, about two thirds the maximum expected quarterly disbursements)
would be made.
5.36      At the initiative of GOI, replenishment of the Special Account would
be made quarterly or whenever the balance reaches 50 percent of the initial
deposit amount, whichever comes first. The estimated disbursement schedule
for the proceeds of the Bank Loan is shown in ANNEX 11. Under JUPCO
supervision, disbursements would be made against full documentation in the
case of expenditures relating to contracts subject to prior Bank review and
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) with a contract value of not exceeding
US$75,000 equivalent for: (i) civil works from contracts under KIP; (ii)
materials procured for community self-help construction; and (iii)
disbursements for information materials for health education and community
development and extension services, and disbursements on equipment and
technical assistance and training. DKI Jakarta would also draw on the Special
Account for procurement of equipment for solid waste management and for
environmental monitoring and for technical assistance for project
coordination. Tata Kota, Cipta Karya would draw on the account for
disbursements on technical assistance for urban spatial management; DGPUOD,
NHA for Q&M; and KLH for pollution control. As replenishment of the Special
Account would be made against proof of disbursements, JUPCO and responsible
government agencies would maintain records relating to contract payments and
procurement decisions. SOEs on KIP would be consolidated by Bappem MHT and
the KIP PMU in each local government which would maintain records relating to
qualifying payments and procurement decisions. Confirmation was received at
negotiations that these records would be available for review periodically by
Bank staff and would be audited during the annual project audit.
5.37      The Bank would disburse against 1002 of expenditures on technical
assistance and training; 10OZ of the CIF cost of directly imported goods, 10OZ
against the cost of ceonsultant's services; 10O of the ex-factory cost of
goods supplied by local manufacturers, and 652 of other items locally
supplied; and 'ta against civil works. A six and one half years disbursement
schedule 'A shown in Annex 11. On this basis, the closing date for the Loan
would be December 31, 1996.
I. Accounts and Auditing
5.38      DKI Jakarta and each participating Botabek local government will be
responsible for maintaining separate detailed project accounts for the KIP,
and will operate an escrow account for programmed local counterpart
contributions and debt service payments. DKI Jakarta will maintain accounts
relating to the costs of coordination through JUPCO. The nominated banking
institution will maintain credit accounts to recover water and sanitation
investments, home improvement and small-business loans. DKI Jakarta (Dinas



- 35 -
Kebersihan) will maintain project accounts for solid waste investments under
the project. DKI Jakarta (P4L) will maintain project accounts for equipment
to monitor air and water quality within its jurisdiction. Cipta Karya will
account for technical assistance to strengthen spatial and strategic planning
in the Jabotabek area. KLH will account for technical assistance to
strengthen pollution control. DGPUOD will account for implementation of
infrastructure O&M policies and procedures. JUPCO will consolidate all
accounts annually in project financial statements for monitoring and audit
purposes. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
5.39      Audit.  The government auditor (Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan
Pembangunan - BPKP) undertakes audits of all public agencies and will be
responsible for the annual audit of the project accounts referred to in para.
5.38 above. Confirmation was received at negotiations: ti) that the audit
will be undertaken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and furnished to the
Bank no later than six months following the close of the financial year to
which it relates; (ii) that it will cover the Special Account; and (iii) and
that an independent opinion on expenditures made against statements of
expenditures will be furnished to the Bank annually as part of (i) above.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Benefits
6.1       Kampung Improvement.  KIP delivers a package of infrastructure
without recovering the investment costs from the direct beneficiaries. As
long as the program is targeted to low-income families, this arrangement can
be considered acceptable. However, lack of direct cost recovery makes
measurement of the effective demand and benefits of the program difficult.
Bank projects have traditionally viewed the increase in land values as an
approximation of these benefits. The advantages of this approach is that, in
theory, it aggregates all benefits into a single indicator.
6.2       Land values in a kampung can change for several reasons, and it is
necessary to separate changes caused by KIP from the effects of other factors.
This requires a comparison of land values in a sample of kampungs scheduled to
be upgraded together with similar kampungs not included in the program.
Following upgrading, land values should again be compared with the unimproved
kampungs providing a "control'. A statistically significant difference in the
increase in land values between the two groups can reasonably be attributed to
the impact of the KIP.
6.3       To date, a simplified, one-step approach has been used in Indonesia:
comparison of land values in kampungs which had been improved to land values
in kampungs which had not been improved, all at the same point in time. These
observations indicated 20 - 40Z higher land values in improved kampungs but,
without incorporating a control sample, these observations cannot be
considered fully satisfactory, and might well have overstated the benefits.
However, sinces (a) earlier analysis based on these surveys produced a 20 to
702 economic rate of return for kampung improvement projects (see combined PCI
of Loan 1653 and 1972-IND); (b) the physical content of the package delivered
a



- 36 -
has not changed substantially since the surveys were carried out; and (c) a
well-structured effort will be made to select the sites for improvement and to
tailor the package to be delivered at each site in such a way that maximizes
the benefits including increased attention to key community priorities of
water and sanitation improvements (see para. 5.15 & 5.16 above), it appears
that the probability that kampung improvement has a satisfactory positive net
economic benefit is very high. The project contains detailed arrangements to
ensure that a more reliable estimate of economic benefits (based on the
application of the method described in para. 6.2 above) will be available
after a first, selected group of kampungs undergoes improvement. The surveys
involved will, in addition, assess how increases in land prices affect access
to housing within kampungs for different social groups.
6.4       Solid Waste Management  Solid waste management services provide
benefits which, for the purpose of economic evaluation, can be divided into
two categories: private (or internal) accruing directly to those households
who receive the service and social (or external) enjoyed by others.
Willingness to pay for the service is the best measure of private benefits.9/
In Jakarta, with the exception of high-income neighborhoods, primary
collection of household solid waste is organized by the neighborhood heads
(RT/RW), who determine the service fee and collect it monthly from the
households. Traditionally that service fee covers only the cost of primary
collection, the payments are not documented and cannot necessarily be taken,
in all cases, to represent a willingness to pay.
6.5       In areas where there is no primary collection service available,
people carry and dump the garbage, which they are unable to handle on their
own plots, into the drains, canals and vacant land. This results in creation
of a large number of informal or temporary dumping sites. Wastes in the major
canals pollute the raw water sources. Unsanitary dumps pose serious health
hazards and pollute the groundwater, and garbage left in open areas also
reduces the people's sense of well being. Social (external) benefits of a
well functioning secondary collection system are equal to the value which
society at large would be ready to pay in order to avoid these negative
environmental consequences. It can be assumed that the cost of these negative
impacts would be higher than the least cost solution to the solid waste
management problem. The cost of relieving flooding due to clogged grains can
be seen from efforts now being mounted under JUDP II.
6.6       The proposed solid waste component is designed to eliminate the
unregulated disposal of residential garbage through implementation of
secondary collection in 75 districts covered by the KIP component and to
remove informal dumps and introduce secondary collection in additional 8
districts in priority flood areas. The project supports investments in
roller-arm trucks, containers and container sites. Based on the analysis of
the unit cost of four different collection methods (ANNEX 2), the proposed
9/ Household surveys covering low income communities indicate monthly pay-
ments for primary collection within the range of Rp 200-750/month, with
some paying Rp 1000/month indicating an effective demand for satisfactory
solid waste management covering more than the cost of primary collection.



- 37 -
technology represents the least cost solution for the secondary collection
system and for the cleanup of illegal dumps.
B. Urban Poverty Impact
6.7       The KIP is designated by GOI as the principal means of alleviating
urban poverty. The increased attention given to key basic services of water
supply and sanitation and promotion of economic activities together with
stronger participation by beneficiary communities should help to further
sharpen the impact of the program in alleviating poverty, increase labor force
participation in these low-income communities through improved environmental
health and, thereby, integrate them more fully into the social and economic
mainstream. Beyond the construction-related employment resulting from
implementation of the RIP, the scale of the program is likely to promote a
meaningful level of home-improvement and expansion, thereby, helping to
increase incomes through additional small-business opportunities in these
communities. To maximize the impact, criteria have been formulated to select
priority communities and key investment needs on the basis of surveyed
deficiencies in basic services and family income. In addition to the Jakarta
component, the project will include fringe area sites in Botabek which have
virtually no services at all as yet.
6.8       The project is not designed primarily to assist the destitute.  How-
ever, provision has been made, as a first step in this area, to help finance
Go9's 'crash program  of community standpipes and health extension services in
other, squatter areas as needed outside of the selected kampungs. In areas
where informal garbage dumps are being cleaned up along the canals, MCKs will
be provided to improve access to basic water and sanitation facilities for the
squatter communities involved which also are amongst the absolute poor. In
addition, the options for addressing the needs of squatter communities and
renters will be reviewed under the project including those living in hazardous
conditions - households who are amongst the poorest segments of the
metropolitan population - including ways to improve access by these
coauunities to formal sector health care services and facilities. Terms of
Reference have been finalized for this review.
6.9       The health and social impacts of uncontrolled industrial, municipal
and human wastes fall most heavily on the poor. Pollution control measures
thus directly help to improve the living conditions of the urban poor, and
complement the KIP investments in public infrastructure.
C. Environmental Impact
6.10      At present environmental conditions in the Jabotabek area are poor.
Housing is crowded, water supply and sanitation services are inadequate,
flooding is common. There is no sewerage and open drains carry untreated
human and industrial wastes. In parts of the city, garbage is randomly
dumped. Groundwater is overdrawn in large areas and contaminated with sea
water and human and industrial wastes. Jabotabek's river systems and coastal
areas are heavily polluted. Industrial wastes are inadequately managed.



- 38 -
6.11      Two decades ago Jakarta launched the Kampung Improvement Program to
improve environmental conditions of households and neighborhood areas, and the
model of upgrading it pioneered has been adopted in other countries and by
external development assistance agencies including the Bank. However, rapid
population and industrial growth and congested urban conditions have created
new problems and make solutions more difficult and costly. The series of
Jabotabek projects supported by the Bank, of which this is one, are designed
to continue and expand the government's programs and to address environmental
issues in a systematic and coordinated manner.
6.12      This project and JUDP II, while individually justified, are
complementary projects and support each other in the delivery of major
environmental benefits. The benefits of this project will be largely at the
household and neighborhood level where residents, most of whom are poor,
suffer daily from environmental degradation. The project would provide a more
constant, accessible and higher quality water supply for these communities.
Household and public toilets will reduce exposure to sewage, and improved
solid waste collection will reduce drain blockages and, together with
sanitation improvements, will reduce community exposure to disease vectors.
The public health information and education campaign will be oriented towards
raising awareness of hygiene, primary health care, and proper use of
facilities by the beneficiaries. These activities will greatly enhance
personal and household cleanliness and convenience, improve sanitary
conditions and aesthetics, decrease flooding and odor. Finally, the
environmental protection component will establish a framework for improvements
in environmental planning for the industrial sector and prepare an
institutional basis for subsequent improved enforcement of environmentally
sound disposal of wastes.   JUDP II improves the environment through the
provision of safe piped water and the improvement of waste water disposal and
drainage. Also under JUDP II, measures will be initiated to Improve surface
and ground water quality and slow the depletion of the groundwater aquifer.
As a consequence of the above, improvements in health and quality of life,
while difficult to quantify, would occur. Finally, under the Jakarta Sewerage
and Sanitation Project (JSSP), a sewerage agency will be developed which will
enable future expansion of the sewerage system.



39
6.13      The following table, composite for this project and JUDP U1 and the
ongoing JSSP, shows the benefits derived from selected components.
Project    Component                    Environmental Benefits
Second     On-site or community  Improved convenience, sanitation, surface
Jabotabek  sanitation            water quality and aesthetics: reduced odor
Urban                             and disease vectors.
Devt.Proj.
(JUDP III) Solid wastes          Improved convenience, sanitation, surface
water quality management and aesthetics.
Reduced flooding.
Industrial wastes     Improved ecology and aesthetics.  Reduced
management            odor.
JSSP       Sewerage               Improved convenience, sanitation, surface and
ground water quality and aesthetics. Reduce
local flooding, odors and disease vectors.
Develop viable sewer agency for sustainable
expansion of system.
Second     Piped water supply    Improved convenience, quality, safety and
Jabotabek                         reliability of supply.  Increased water Ur-
ban                               quantity for household use and personal Deve-
lopment    cleanliness.  Reduce ground water depletion; Proj.(JUDP II)improved
protection of aquifer.
Major drain           Reduced flood frequency and severity,
improvement           improved sanitation and aesthetics.
Water resources       Future increased water availability,
study                 improved surface and ground water quality.
6.14      Despite largely favorable impacts, certain components of this proje-
ct, if improperly designed and implemented, could have adverse impacts:
i) the disposal of human wastes to on-site sanitation facilities could
adversely affect groundwater quality through the introduction of nitra-
tes, bacteria and virus carried by the leaching wastewater.   Host such
pollutants are, however, retained in the sanitation facility or are
purified in the surrounding soil. An exception is nitrate but dilution
will normally reduce nitrate concentrations to harmless levels. The
benefits of safe disposal of human wastes generally far outweigh the
possible health risks resulting from marginal groundwater pollution.
Nonetheless, where population density is high, natural infiltration is
low and groundwater is used as a source of drinking water, monitoring
of groundwater nitrates concentration will be undertaken under the
projects



- 40 -
ii)  the introduction of additional water supply may compound drainage
problems but drainage system improvements under the project are
expected to minimize them; and
iii) the solid waste disposal facility could contaminate surface and ground
water, but the facility will be designed and operated, and
environmental parameters would be monitored, to prevent this (see para
6.16).
6.15      These and other impacts were identified as part of the Bank's
project preparation effort and component designers were required to
incorporate measures to minimize or mitigate them. Programs to monitor
impacts during construction and post-construction phases and the
implementation of such programs would be monitored during project supervision.
Adverse impacts, mitigating measures and monitoring programs would form an
environmental action plan for the project.
6.16      DRI Jakarta and MPW have prepared preliminary environmental
assessments (lEAs) for project components, and will do full EAs where
necessary. An EA has been prepared for the solid wastes facility, reviewed by
the Bank and approved by the responsible provincial regulatory agency. This
EA identifies measures required in the operation of the site to mitigate the
possible harmful impacts including: i) traffic management measures to handle
increased vehicle flows; ii) lining the site to collect leachates and
arrangements for environmentally sound treatment of leachates. An EA for the
KIP would be sent to the Bank by December 1, 1990. Because of the earlier
work in identifying potential impacts, the Government's EAs are not expected
to call for significant changes in the designs of the components. The
recommendations of the various preliminary and full EAs would be consolidated
in the form of an environmental action plan which would be monitored during
supervision of the project.
6.17      DKI Jakarta and MPW's environmental assessment process and the
organizational units, staff and procedure for implementing them are still in
the development stage. While the Bank's operational directive covers a wider
range of subjects, the objectives of GOI and the Bank's processes are the
same, i.e., to design, build and operate projects in an environmentally sound
way.
D. Risks
6.18      Previous phases of the KIP have been successful in implementing
public infrastructure improvements. The major risks in the RIP are in the
area of social and economic development of which implementing agencies have
little experience. To minimize the risk of poor performance in these areas,
the project design reflects the need for: (i) promotion and awareness raising
among the area residents, (ii) adequate community participation in decision
making, (iii) extension services to advise families of toilet installation and
maintenance. Specifically: (i) Bappem MHT staff will be strengthened with



- 41 -
suitable community development skills and training, (ii) resident.' water and
sanitation user groups will be established at the outset, and as part of a
contract* with the community (Memorandum of Understanding - MoU) outlining
responsibilities and commitments; (iii) local CDCs will work with the resident
associations on all project sub-components, and (iv) where needed, land will
be donated or purchased at fair market value for public sanitation/multi-
purpose buildings.
6.19      To minimize the risks on small-scale credit, it will be initiated at
a pilot scale in each district, and conditioned by community savings mobilized
by qualifying credit agencies. The pilot sanitation project in Semarang and
Surakarta in Central Java used this approach with assistance from Urban V and
the UNDP, and during the short period of operation has demonstrated some
success. The risk of low loan take up and poor repayment performance under
earlier KIP and KMMP programs will be minimized through careful selection and
reliance on field based CDCs with experience in advising and training small
businesses, experience gained under the successful Kupedes program and by
involvement of the Ministry of Education and the Kejar Usaha program which has
succeeded in assisting small businesses and establishing effective production
cooperatives.10/
6.20      To minimize the risk of une.onomic and poor operational performance
of secondary refuse collection, due o rigid working conditions in Dinas
Kebersihan, private contractors are to be invited under competitive bidding
arrangements to manage this service. Equipment to be procured under the
project will be leased out under arrangements which reduce the risk of
excessive down time and short effective life due to lack of maintenance as is
common at present for DKI Jakarta's existing fleet.
6.21      Strengthening of environment monitoring and enforcement in the
responsible provincial agencies will not be accomplished quickly - probably
not fully within the timeframe for the project - and efforts under the project
may not become fully effective until clear standards are prescribed by the
Central Government, and a strong legal framework for enforcement emerges. In
this, and other areas of project performance, the major annual GOI project
review, which would form a component of the monitoring and evaluation
arrangements for the project and in which the Bank would participate, would
help identify weaknesses in project performance and remedial measures quickly.
It would also help reinforce the interagency coordination built into the
project organizational arrangements.
101 Experience shows that where community mobilizers or NGOs were seconded to
poorly managed cooperatives, for a period of 8-14 months, management of
cooperatives became much improved with a success rate of as much as 402
to 60X.



_ 42 -
VII. AGREEMENTS CONCLUDED
7.1       Agreement was reached with GOI on the following principal points:
(a) the provisions of an Implementation Action Plan together with a
model Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for KIP to be entered into
with each involved community as a basis for and prior to commencing
works (para. 5.12) and relating to policy guidelines: (i) on site
selection criteria (para. 5.15)s cost recovery arrangements (para.
4.5); staffing schedules and training programs (para. 5.10);
operation and maintenance arrangements (para. 5.18); physical
development (para. 5.16) and tenure (para. 3.4 [a]); land acquisi-
tion, resettlement and protection against redevelopment (para.
5.19); design criteria and physical services; small-scale credit
(para. 5.17); the community development process (Paras. 5.12 &
5.13); program organization, coordination and implementation
arrangements (paras. 5.7 to 5.10); and project monitoring arrange-
ments (para. 5.30);
(b) the provisions of a draft new joint decree to expand the role of
JUPCO and establishment of the coordinating division for the
project; (para. 5.4);
(c) (i) arrangements for contracting out secondary collection of
garbage, and on terms and conditions of leasing equipment; and
(ii) operation of disposal site as a controlled landfill (para.
5.20);
(d) that the Bank will have an opportunity to comment on pollution
control strategy and other special topic studies (para. 5.22);
(e) an annual project performance review in which the Bank would
participate (para. 5.30);
(f) that the Bank would have prior review of procurement documents for
the first 5 civil works contracts over US$75,000 (para. 5.34);
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.2       The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) execution of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
between the Borrower and each local government (para. 4.3); and
(b) establishment of the JUPCO coordinating division for the project and
staffing of key positions (para. 5.4).



-43-
Conditions of Disbursement
7.3       Issuance of the SKR  Bupati on RIP in each respective Botabek local
governments (para, 5.8).
Recoumendation
7.4       subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$61 million to the Republic of Indonesia for
20 years, including 5 years grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



ANNEX I
- 44 -                            Page 1
INDONESIA
KAMPUNG nMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
A. Program Origin and Evaluation
1.        The KIP was first initiated by DKI Jakarta in 1969 as a major effort
to improve local services which were not being addressed through simple sector
programs. The program was intended to improve the physical conditions in
kampung areas with minimal dislocation and disturbance to the existing coammu-
nity. The services included roads, footpaths, drainage water supply, public
toilets, schools and health centers. Changes to land tenure and housing
improvements were not included. Similar programs followed in other cities and
since Repelita II, KIP has been institutionalized as a national program. Some
7,000 hectares of kampungs were improved during Repelita II, 15,000 hectares
during Repelita III and a further 10,000 hectares during Repelita IV. Since
its inception, more than 800 towns and cities have implemented some form of
KIP development benefiting roughly six million people.
2.        Over the last five years, KIP investments have greatly lagged behind
growth of investments in transport and other major infrastructure sectors,
which have been well-supported. Consequently, RIP has also fallen behind,
both in servicing new kampungs and providing additional infrastructure needed
to existing kampungs which were deficient in some key services. Investment in
KIP (from all sources) as a proportion of total investment fell from its high
point of 122 of total urban infrastructure expenditure during Repelita III to
only 4-5Z in Repelita IV. During 1987 and 1988, and with support under the
Bank's Urban Sector Loan (Loan 2816-IND), this rose to 62.
3.        Local governments have been encouraged to undertake KIP by strong
demand from local communities, GOI policy promotion, availability of external
loan funds and parallel Central Government grants (GOI RIP perentis). DRI has
established a separate KIP unit (Bappem MHT). Other cities like Surabaya
followed the same approach, which designed and implemented RIP through private
contractors, drawing staff mainly from the Public Works Dinas. Hitherto,
participation of the residents was mostly limited to information provided
through the Lurah (the local government official at the community level) and
the requirement that signatures from over 702 of households would be needed
for approval of proposed improvements. 'While KIP has generally received wide
support, the lack of involvement of residents in the planning of facilities
and in maintenance has led, in some cases, to poor location, operation and
maintenance of facilities. Kampung infrastructure has suffered from a general
lack of attention and funding for maintenance by local governments.
4.        GOI, DKI and other local governments have taken the view that, in
line with the policy regarding capital costs of other public infrastructure,
costs of RIP infrastructure should not be recovered directly from the benefi-
ciaries, but that increased property tax revenues would provide a more appro-
priate 'indirect* means of cost recovery. Since under KIP, no public assets
are transferred to private individuals, (e.g., land transfer), this is a
reasonable approach. However, individual sanitation facilities provide a



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                         Page 2
higher level of benefit and constitute a private asset and should, therefore,
be recovered.
B. The Jabotabek KIP - Obiectives and Scope
5.        The new RIP approach has been conceived over the past year by
officials from the local governments of DKI, Botabek, from central government
of (Bappenas, Public Works/Cipts Karya, Home Affairs, NGOs) and the Bank. It
has been designed to respond tos
(a) the popularity and proven impact of KIP as a low-cost program for
poverty alleviation through its provision of basic services, and the
need to reinvigorate this program to address the increasing numbers
of beneficiaries and to target new settlement areas within the
contiguous urbanized area in adjacent jurisdictions;
(b) past weaknesses of RIP as regards inadequate attention to sanitation
and the importance of a more comprehensive integrated approach,
emphasizing sanitation and health related subcomponents, yet the
realization that a sanitation-only program is also inadequate with
respect to meeting other high priority local needs;
,c) demands expressed both by kampung communities and local government
officials for a broader and more flexible approach which would not
only provide a better quality of traditional KIP services, but also
include additional social and economic development;
(d) the need for greater community participation and involvement in the
planning and monitoring of local service programs. This is per-
ceived as fundamental for community acceptance of the services,
stimulating the communities' responsibilities for operation and
maintenance, and for repayment of loans by community associations
and/or individuals involved in improved sanitation, water supply,
home-improvement and business development. This participation can
also be strengthened by KIP communities becoming more involved in
the bottom-up planning and budgeting process (Rakorbang) as is now
being promoted by GOI;
Ce) the need for (i) modified planning arrangements to ensure that an
adequate level and quality of service is provided to maximize the
impact to the communities affected, and (ii) financing arrangements
which require counterpart funds to match GOI grants under the RIP
Perentis program in order to encourage involvement of a greater
number of local governments and kampung communities.



ANNEX 1
- 46 -                          Page 3
Program Components
6.        To meet these parameters, a strong community-based approach is being
initiated to maximize the relevance and acceptability of RIP to the
communities and provide assistance to small enterprises in KIP areas.
Building on earlier experience, it will utilize a variety of appropriate low-
cost solutions to improve sanitation in line with population densities,
prevailing ground conditions and other factors. The RIP would utilize
criteria for selection of priority sites and the range of service improvements
required:
(a) Infrastructure Networks. The traditional KIP infrastructure of
roads, footpaths, drainage and water supply would be continued.
However, new road construction would be minimized and small foot-
paths and micro-drainage extended to reach less accessible (and
usually poorer) areas of the kampung. The water supply networks
would be expanded to provide service to a greater number of public
faucets, public and group family toilets and an increasing number of
individual household connections.
(b) Sanitation and User's Management. This component would be an
essential core program. Experience with water supply and sanitation
improvements (MCKs) show that effective operation and maintenance
and cost recovery for public toilets can be established if associa-
tions have been formed and given proper training. This approach can
also be used to generate demand for individual and group family
toilets. It is most effective when preceded by an intensive health
information campaign.
(c) Health Services and Education. Experience has shown that sanitation
and other infrastructure of KIP need to be more strongly supported
by an integrated package of health services and health education
programs to promote and train the population (especially women and
youth) in the acceptance, use and maintenance of public and private
sanitation, and water supply and solid waste facilities. With the
assistance and guidance of the Ministry of Health (MOH), the project
would support the ongoing program of loca' health offices
(Kesehatan) (e.g., primary health care [PHC], communicable disease
control) to undertake the education/promotion initiatives noted
above and training of health workers and volunteers, and would con-
struct and equip permanent or mobile health clinics (Puskesmas) in
the low-income kampungs and squatter areas. The subcomponent is
viewed as a pilot effort for wider replication on a national scale.
(d) Solid Waste Management. Within each kampung, a door to door solid
waste collection system will be established or strengthened under
the guidance of the community development council (LKMD). It will
provide handcarts for primary collection within these neighborhoods,
and complement the secondary collection efforts under the Priority
Solid Waste component of the project.
(e) Land Planning and Acquisition. In order to improve the provision of
public faciliLies such as MCKs, schools, market facilities, parking



- 47 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4
areas, and possibly provide infill plots for expansion of small-
scale business, overall site planning and land allocation would be
improved as part of the kampung physical plan;
(f)  Training.  A major objective of t'e program is to improve the capa-
bilities of these communities for planning and managing their local
services, housing improvement and business operations. To make this
effective, substantial training will need to be undertaken in the
course of project preparation and implementation. The community
development extension workers, assigned to groups of kampungs
through the RIP units, will incorporate the training activities
within their overall development program with the Kampung
communities. Specialized resources for various purposes will be
identified by each local government RIP unit in coordination with
sectoral agencies and NGOs. NGOs will take a more prominent role
than hitherto as community advisors and mobilizers. Training will
focus on community leadership, user group management, small business
operators, skills training, etc. In addition, training would be
provided to government staff involved in the project (KIP units,
sectoral agencies) particularly in the area of community development
and health education which has traditionally been given less atten-
tion than engineering and project management aspects. Strouger
training in all components including physical planning would be
needed for Botabek KIP units.
(g) Small-Scale Credit. As outlined in Section F below, access to
small-scale credit will be expanded to low-income groups and
individuals for a variety of purposes including home and on-plot
sanitation improvement and small business support (home industry,
craftsmanship, food stalls, etc.) The pilot program will be managed
by a banking institution. To avoid incorporating subsidies 3nto the
program, funds wocld be on-lent through accredited community-based
financial intermediaries (CBFIs) to beneficiaries at market terms
applied to small credits. The CBFIs, vhich would be accredited in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank, would appraise and
package subloans for financing, also in accordance with loan
origination criteria acceptable to the Bank, and would assume the
default risk on the subloans.
(h) Technical Assistance. Consultant assistance will be limited to
specialist advisory services on small business operations,
management and operation of the small-scale credit program, and
design and implementation of physical services (especially Botabek).
As part of the RIP management team, community development
consultants would be contracted to manage the development program in
specific kampungs by strengthening local kampung organizations to
represent the community in the planning, design and management of
services and providing specialist advice to these local groups. The
project would also provide funds for a study to: (i) review
existing information on health conditions and undertake a survey of
communities living in hazardous conditions, households who are among
the absolute poor and are dependent on rental accommodation, and for
whom feasible options for assistance are not well understood;



- 48 -                        Page 5
(i1) review the implications of the present tenure and land titling
situation; (iii) formulate recommendations for a policy and action
plan to address the problems identified; and (iv) identify measures
to improve access by these communities to formal sector health care
services and facilities. This work would complement the ongoing
poverty alleviation program of the government and other sector
studies, (i.e., housing).
C. Rampung Selection and Design Criteria
7.        The Project Areas.  The KIP in the Jabotabek area under the project
is designed to upgrade kampungs in 95 kelurahans covering about 1.5 million
people or approximately 300,000 households.
8.        DRI and each Botabek local government is responsible for the
preparation and implementation of RIP with guidance from Cipta Karya and Dalam
Negeri. In DKI and W. Java, kampungs have been chosen for improvement based
on: (a) high population density; (b) inadequate water supply and worst
environmental conditions; (c) health conditions; (d) housing conditions;
(e) family income levels; (f) geographical location; (g) closeness of existing
infrastructure networks; (h) priorities based on the Jakarta Master Plan; and
Ci) willingness and interest of community for KIP. The programs have been
adjusted to the financial and implementation capacity of the local
governments. Under the Rakorbang planning and budgeting process, individual
communities will be assisted to identify projects to address the most serious
community infrastructure and service deficiencies, for incorporation into the
program and allocation of resources. Priority in the program will be accorded
to the poorest kelurahans, and within each kelurahan, to the depressed and
low-income kampungs.
9.        Policy on Physical DeveloPment and Tenure in KIP Areas.  Stronger
tenure is a feature of the new program. It has been agreed by the Governors
of DRI Jakarta and West Java as well as the Bupati (Mayor) of each of the
Botabek local governments that the RIP policy will be incorporated in a RIP
policy statement tthich, with minor variations, would:
(a) announce a 6-year program of community based kampung improvement
which will upgrade the environmentally depressed areas starting with
those where conditions are worst;
(b) outline the components of the program involving drainage, sanita-
tion, footpath and vehicle access, water supply, and community faci-
lities;
(c) minimize disturbance of existing houses -- the RIP infrastructure
will be designed to fit into the existing layout of the kampung;
(d) review and improve compensation and relocation arrangements for
families whose houses have been affected by the project;
(e) offer Hak guna bangunan title (long-term renewable ownership right)
or Hiak Pakai (long-term right of use) to those families who were
occupying public land at the date of occupant registration;



- 49 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 6
(f) develop socio-economic programs with strong community organization,
and participation;
(g) extend access to small-scale credit.
10.       Most of the features of the new RIP policy outlined above have been
incorporated in a Governors' Decree Number 814 dated June 1989 which will be
further amended and in Bupatis Decrees to be issues by each Botabek local
government.
11.       Design Criteria for Physical Services.  The KIP for each of the four
local governments has been designed along the lines of previous Bank-supported
projects in Indonesia. It would provide basic services aimed at improving the
health and environmental conditions of low-income kampungs. These services
include footpaths, secondary roads, surface drainage, water supply from public
standpipes, individual/group and communal toilets and washing facilities,
solid waste collection facilities, elementary schools and community health
centers and market facilities.
12.       Although hard and fast standards for RIP are not possible or desir-
able, given the considerable variation in prevailing conditions, levels of
service and population densities, some guidance and control is necessary to
maintain a reasonable balance of services within budget constraints. The
functional standards adopted for previous KIP Projects have been maintained
but modified in light of experience. The proposed functional standards are
summarized in Table 1 and have been defined as follows:
(a) Roads. All dwellings within a maximum distance of 100 m from a one-
way road and 300 m from a two-way road. Length per ha. may range
between 50-100 r/ha (average 50 m/ha) for one-way roads and
15-35 m/ha (average 20 m/ha) for two-way roads.  Pavement widths
will be 4 m or 6 m on a right-of-way of 6, 8 or 10 m, depending on
traffic conditions.
(b) Footpaths. Paved footpaths to within 20 m of every dwelling not
located on a road. The footpaths will have variable pavement widths
depending on site conditions but ranging from 1.5 - 3 with 3 - 6 m
right-of-way. In addition, narrow footpaths of 1 m width will be
provided where feasible to link groups of houses in the interior of
kampungs with the main footpath system.
(c) Drainage. Open secondary drains along road and footpaths. Primary
drains as required.
(d) Water Supply.1/ Connection to city main supply, deep wells or
storage tank under "crash program" conditions as appropriate.
Design standards for the reticulation system will be about 60 lpcd.
One standpipe will be provided to serve each RT (about 20 to 50
families). Where sufficient supplies are available, private
l/   Part of this component will be financed from JUDP II.



-50 -
Third Jabotabet Urban Dvlolmnt Project
Keupung Improv nt Program: Planning Criteria and Design Standards
Facility                    Planning Criterta                         Delign Standards
Access length asters     Physical
Ac cceop typ                                                       r groatr_   Dimentions
Road           All dwelliang  within * maximum      two-way      15      20     a8      vx 6 a pavement
dilsunc  of 100 a free a one-way    one-WAy      go      60      100    Msx 4   pevement
road and  0 a ftrom * to-way                    100    200        -    fre  1 a up to
road.                                                                   8 a pavement
Pedestrian     PoWd footpaths to within 20 a of
every dwIllIng not located on a
road
Drainae        Open seondary drains along road    Design storm for min (link) draIns: 5 years
and footpatho or under center of    D"ign storm for drainage network:  1 to 2 yro
narrow footpaths.
Priery drains as requred.
Water Supply   Connection to city mnln su"pply or   60 I/cap/day
deep wells as approprIate.
One standpip. to serve each RT
(about 20-50 familles). Private
connectlon allowe wbhre suffl-
dent *ster spIy Is avallable.
Sanitation
Human Wsfe     Pit privies with water seal for      Aqua privies on par household, or up to 8 grouped
DIaposol       individual famil es provided wher-  households. Pubilc tollet 1 asat per 12 families.
ever appropiate soil and density
conditions exit. In other area
community tollet and washing f*ci-
Ittles (CK) provided within 0 a
of walking distance from dwelling.
Sollago        Sul logs discharged to drainae       48 I/cap/day
Disposal       netwerk
Solid Waste    Handcart. with bies for regular      2 au a handnarte (eprobak)
Dlspoal        household collection take to
covered waste continers each to    a cu a SolId wast containers
serve 2 to 4 hectar  for house-
holde to carry refus to corts.
Co_unity Facillties
Primary        Primary schools (with furnituro)    One or two stories depending on kampung denslty and
Schools        to make up the deficiency of         availability of land. Typical leso 600 q a with 6
fa   Ilities and to provide for 755   claosrooms with furniture.
of school-age children on two
shift.  RehabilIltate an  expand
existing schools or new facili-
ties, as appropriate.
Health         Sub-Puses.., clinic to bring         8 to 6 rooms each.  Total area up te 800 eq a with
Clinics        ar es up to Ministry of Health       furniture and quipn t.
standards
Note: Sample Illustration for appropriate levl of services and will be adJusted to refl ct other
c     _mponent  previously not ieauded In KIP.



- 51-                           ANNEX 1
Page 7
connections vill be available along the reticulation system.
Wherever feasible, loop distribution systems would be constructed to
provide the opportunity for greater numbers of individual
connections.
(e) Sanitation. In these areas, community toilet and washing facilities
(MMCK) will be provided at a rate of 1 toilet seat per 6 - 12
families. Pit privies and other low-cost options for individual
families and household groups will be provided wherever the appro-
priate soil and density conditions exist. A sanitation action plan
which will incorporate a technology zoning map will be developed in
each site utilizing the policies and technical guidelines prepared
for the national sanitation strategy.
(f) Solid Wastes Collection. Hand carts and bins will be provided in
all areas together with vehicles and trailers as appropriate.
(g) Primary Schools. Primary schools (with furniture) to make up the
deficiency of facilities in the kampungs and provide enough space
for about 752 of schoolage children. Schools will be financed from
the INPRES program and incorporated in the annual budgeting cycle.
(h) Health Clinics. Depending on the condition in each area and the
capability to staff and operate them effectively, small health
clinics will be provided (sub-puskesmas) with three to six rooms and
a total area of up to 300 m2, with necessary furniture and equipment
and mobile health units will be provided.
13.       The functional standards defined above represent the desirable level
of service. Specific details will be incorporated in the memorandum of
agreement with individual comunities.
D. Project Implementation and Management Arragements
Project Development Process
14.       The KIP approach will require a more extensive involvement of the
community in project activities than hitherto. In each Kampung, a three year
development cycle will be followed to allow the community development process
to take place six months to one year before implementation of physical works
commences, and another six to eight months after all major components are com-
pleted to allow for the community to be prepared for operating and maintaining
project facilities and programs. The flow of activities starting with project
identification by the communities; through project review and budgetary
approval by the local government; and design and implementation, is
illustrated in Chart 1. The annual project preparation cycle is shown in
Table 2. The main differences from earlier practice would be as follows:
(a) A three year development process will take place in each site start-
ing with arrangements for community organization and participation,
establishment of user associations for specific functions (water and
sanitation associations, home loans associations, business
cooperatives etc.).



AMNE 1
-52 -                Chart 1
PROCEDUE OF MNT III
1      .0   r |      5       K~~~~~ BAPPEDA&
BENEFICIARIES       BENEFICIARIES         AGLN
_>   ~~GROUP       _                      L AGENCIES
_   .              =           H               _      T~~~~~~APV.
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION                      ACTIVITTES FLOW OF MHT-III
U941IRI5  cCNEm  a LIE  DpI  Orr.  OITT.         8AppUo        am
90vdwICIm    @r .                    RT  .ANME  SCUL SAPPDA  5 NIL  O.T.K.  OM  R_N6
C¶i etia     f"i
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Codrs. __ _____    Pie
_    -                -1 Agreement
Pr o.ed to
-____ic-l   I      I   I                  I  -  I~~~~O  I              I
0
0
T.chni I Advbcq
_^_ _ F1 1~~~I                                   Tofdoring
| -       _+_TfltT- | l
--      - 1 iTehi I Advic 
lemeting



ANNE 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project - COMPRUENSIVE RIP
Annual RIP Plan Proiect Cycle
May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec  JFMAI4JJASOND  JFMAIMJJA
RIP Unit
Update program Initial Selection ---                                  ---                    ---
Initial meetings with residents    **                                  **                     **
Survey  (physical)              ----------                            --------                --------
Outline sketch plans                 ----                                _---                     -_--
Further meetings w/residents
Details site planning                      ---------                          --------
Final meetings wlresidents
Detailed  eng.  design                           --------------  -----              ---  ------------
Tender documents                                                ------                   --------
Bids and evaluation                                                ---                        ---
Contracts                                                             * let 751 of all ontracts ---------
Supervision/Construction                                                infrastructure   furniure_
furmiture &
equipment
Requests and Approvals
RIP Steering Coumitte Approval     *
DPRD RIP selection & budget             +
Request Approval                 *
Province KIP Budget Request              +
Approval                       *
Central KIP Budget Request                          +
Approval                                           *
Asraria Unit
Initial  Land  Valuation       ----------                                 ------             --------
Land & Occupant registration           -----------                         ---------               -----
Land  &  building  acquisition                 ----------------  ----------      ------  --------



ANNEX 1
54 -                         Page 9
(b)  Substantial use will be made of NGO community development consul-
tants.  So far, about 15 suitable large, medium and small sized CDC9
have been registered by DXI. Each CDC has between 5 and 45
professional staff, plus a total of about 20 to 250 experienced,
extension workers.
15.       The coamunity-based KIP will extend the KIP approach of integrated
local service delivery and emphasize the following features:
(a) human waste disposal using a range of low-cost technologies.
Extension services and loans would be available to individual
families and groups of families for materials for self-build or
contracted construction, public toilet and washing facilities to be
operated by water and sanitation associations. Some of the earlier
RIP areas which are deficient in sanitation will be targeted for
this component and new unserved areas will receive more attention in
sanitation;
(b) the sanitation program will be preceded by a health information and
education campaign (HIEC) to raise awareness and improve personal
habits in sanitation and nutrition. It will be prepared and
operated by the Dinas Kesehatan and Bappem MHT with assistance from
community development consultants (CDCs), and/or NGOs;
sc) this will be followed by provision of basic infrastructure services
such as roads, footpaths, water supply, drainage, human waste
management, solid waste management and provision for new community
centers for social and economic activities;
(d) more attention will be given to micro-drainage within the kampungs
and with its links to the secondary drainage systems, to ensure that
the additional water supplied through the project gets proper dis-
posal and does not cause flooding in adjacent areas;
te) responding to demand among kampung residents for financial assis-
tance to upgrade their homes following the physical infrastructure
improvements, KIP would feature a home improvement loan (HIL)
program for the purchase of materials for self-help or contracted
home expansion. Existing formal sector housing finance arrangements
do not provide for this need. KIP would use NGOs and community
development consultants, the cooperatives and the existing community
organizational structure to provide extension services;
(f) recognizing that existing loan programs to assist small businesses
(the KIX and RMKP) have not been successful, the KIP would adopt a
different approach to strengthen small businesses and cooperatives.
In selected kelurahans it would use experienced community
development consultantsINGOs to provide extension services to small
businesses through training in business management and accounting.
marketing opportunities and linkages, preparation of project propo-
sals and identification of land and physical services needed. An



- 55 -                        ANNE 
Page 10
accredited CBFI would make small-scale loan funds available to
assist small-scale businesses and credit unions and cooperatives.
Institutional framework and Management Arrangements
16.       Through its Directorate of Housing (Perumahan), Cipta Karya (the
Directorate General of Human Settlements, Ministry of Public Works will: a)
allocate grant fund contributions to the Botabek local governments; b) assist
local governments in developing their KIP programs particularly in Botabek;
c) provide personnel to assist and monitor RIP operations; and d) coordinate
and monitor the program as it relates to the national KIP strategy and ensure
that the policies and procedures adopted by the local governments are within
the context of the KIP policy guidelines.
17.       DRI and the Botabek local governments will act as the lead agencies
in implementing the RIP program in the Jabotabek region. To this effect,
Steering Committees (SCs), Project Management Units (PHUs) and Project
Implementing Units (PIUs) have been established in DKI, in West Java Province
and in respective Botabek local governments. The organization of KIP in DKI
is illustrated in Chart 2. A similar structure is being organized for
Botabek.
18.       The role of the Steering Committee (SC) is summarized ast
(a) establish policies for the program;
(b) agree on selection of kampungs for improvement;
(c) review and endorse the yearly physical, community development
(social + health) and economic development support, program budgets;
(d) ensure suitable staff for the project managementlimplementation
units (PMUIPIU) and to refer policy issues arising to the DKI
governing council, as appropriate;
(e) ensure timely flow of funds;
(f) expedite land acquisition;
(g) monitor the overall program, commission evaluation reports on the
progress of work and the effects and impacts of the program on local
residents and organizations, resolve problems of interagency coor-
dination with the national agencies and make timely adjustments to
policy and management.
19.       In DKI Jakarta, the SC will be chaired by the Vice Governor for
Development, with representation by the Heads of Sekwilda, Bappeda and the
Five Walikota for the five Wilayah in DRI, and the PKK. For the Botabek local
governments, the SC will be established by the West Java Governor with the
same functions as in DKI and will comprise the Vice Governor for Development
as Chairman, the head of West Java Bappeda, the three Bupatis of Bogor,
Tangerang and Bekasi, the heads of Bappeda Tingkat II, and a representative



'                        ~~~~~~~~~~- 56 -
Eli~~III il d    liiX
I~E a
I~~~~~     __
' m



ANX 1
- 57 -                         Page 13
from the PRK to provide advice on the community participation aspect of the
program and in monitoring and evaluation of the program.
20.       The Prolect ManaRement Unit (PHU).  In DKI, overall management of
the program and coordination of project activities at the community level will
be the responsibility of Bappem MHT. To this effect, it will develop an
annual program and budget and release funds for all infrastructure components
(excluding water distribution for areas within PDAM Jaya's service area) and
sanitation investments to be implemented. It will prepare guidelines for the
development and management of the RIP sites and for the payment of user
charges subject to the approval of the SC. It will contract and supervise
(with assistance from seconded staff from sectoral agencies) physical works
undertaken in the KIP sites. Bappem MHT is also the Project Implementing Unit
(PIU) for local development works. As such it will be responsible for
supervising all technical assistance procured by DKI to assist program
implementation. At present most of the staff of Bappem are site planners and
engineers.
21.       The PMU will be headed by a Program Director, competent and
experienced in managing multisectoral, community-based development projects.
He/she will report regularly to the SC, and will also be a member of the
intersectoral Technical Working Group. He/she will obtain information from,
and provide assistance to, the KIP evaluation unit which will be set up in
JUPCO specifically for the project.
22.       Bappem MHT comprises four main divisions:2/
(a) The Finance, Monitoring and Administrative Division (Secretariat),
responsible for administration, financial management and monitoring
of implementation activities of the RIP program. The division will
be headed by a Chief with financial and administrative management
skills. The monitoring subsection will monitor the routine aspects
of the Program.
(b) The Program Planning Division, responsible for formulating the
overall annual program plans to synchronize and schedule community
development, physical investments and economic support and
coordination of all involved agencies. The division will be
responsible for project planning including socio-economic surveys
and feasibility studies of kampungs). The Division Chief shall be a
site planneriengineer.
(c) The Physical Infrastructure Division, responsible for the
implementation activities including detailed engineering, bidding,
procurement and supervision of physical and socioleconomic
development works as well as for The Division Chief will be skilled
in contract management and supervision.
(d) The Socio-economic (Community Manatement) Division will prepare and
supervise socio-economic and community development programs
2I Governor's Decree No. 814, June 1989 as amended.



- 58 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 15
including social, health and economic activities, and execution of
works at the community level. The Division Chief will be skilled
both in community development and project management.
23.       Given the multisectoral character of KIP, and the emphasis on
community development and participation, the PMU has reorganized its planning
and implementation procedures to give a dominant place to cowmunity
organization and will expand and diversify its staff to include 10-15
technical staff seconded to Bappem MHT from other DKI sectoral agencies
dealing with related inputs to RIP, vizs i) overall management of project
sites; ii) community development officers; c) health education and education
promotion; and d) group and individual sanitation and home improvement (e.g.,
Bangdes on community development, PAM Jaya-water supply, Dinas Kesehatan-
health, Dinas Kebersihan-solid wastes, Dinas Ekonomi-economic development
programs, Dikmas on nonformal education, etc.) and Community Development
Ccnsultants, etc. The Bappem/KIP office assisted by the Bappeda will make
specific arrangements with the staff to be seconded on their specific duties
and responsibilities including:
*    Community development officer/s
*    Site planner/sanitation engineer/s
*    Financial analyst/accountant/s
*    Contract/supervision engineer/s
*    Health specialist/hygiene educator/s
*    Training specialists
24.       PIU in each Wilayah  In DKI Jakarta, to operationalize the program
at the community level, Bappem MHT will establish PIUs in the five Wilayah
(Mayoralties) and community management teams at each kelurahan. Each PIU will
comprise community development and project management personnel which, under
the Lurah, will be the main link with the communities.
Similar arrangements will be made in the RIP units in Botabek local
governments. The details of these arrangements including the roles and
responsibilities are defined in the respective Governors and Bupati Decree and
Memorandum of Understanding for implementing the KIP program.
25.       Responsibilities of Local Sectoral Agencies.  To ensure continuity
and effective working relationships with the community, the Project Team will
cover all development functions from initial contact with the community
through design and implementation. The following DXI agencies will each pro-
vide services in close coordination with Bappem MET:
(a) Dinas Kesehatan will provide Health Information and Education Cam-
paign (HIEC) and health extension services under site-by-site agree-
ments with Bappem. It will make arrangements for a health coordina-
tor to be attached to the program management staff of Bappem MHT.
(b) Dinas Kebersihan will plan solid waste collection arrangements in
coordination with Bappem MHT. It will assist Bappem MHT and the
communities in preparing sanitation action plans (SAPs) and will
provide technical assistance, extension and guidance for on-site



ANX 1
59                            Page 16
sanitation technology selection and construction of individual and
public facilities.
(c) Ban8des will assist in establishing comwunity working groups (CDAGs)
with neighborhood councils (LKMDs) and assist Bappem with NGO
involvement, through funds provided by Bappem. It will assign a
community development officer to work with Bappem MHT to oversee
community development activities.
(d) Biro KooDeratif and Bangproda, with technical assistance, will pro-
vide extension and technical guidance, loan appraisal and training
for credit unions, cooperatives and small businesses. It will
assist the banking institution nominated to administer credit
operations.
(e) PDAM will provide water supply reticulation for components within
its service area. In areas where main service cannot be provided,
Bappem MHT will install local area water supply including deep wells
and storage tanks as appropriate.
(f) Dikmas will provide extension and technical assistance through the
Village Training Program on Illiteracy (Paket A) and Economic
Oriented Training Program (Kejar Usaha), apprenticeship programs and
self-improvement programs especially for women.
(g) Agraria will provide extension and technical assistance to land reg-
istration and land regularization campaign which will be intensified
with KIP. PU will provide other support infrastructure.
(h) Other agencies will have a minor role including Kebakaran for fire
safety regulations, Pertamanan for security, Bina Sosial and
Depnaker for social programs and manpower training programs, Dinas
Tata Kota for land use regulations and control, and BKLH for
environmental protection.
26.       Technical Working Group. To assist in interagency coordination, the
PMUs in each local government will be assisted by a Technical Working Group
(TWG) representing the different intersectoral agencies, including the PMUs
and other PlUs and will be led by the Bappeda in each local government. The
TWG will:
(a) provide technical and financial guidance on the physical and sociol
economic programs, site selectionlprioritization;
(b) assist Bappem WHT to coordinate the activities of the agencies in
the project area;
(c) provide the link for technical support for the sectoral agencies;
and
(d)  assist Bappem MNT to oversee and guide the implementation of RIP.



AM=  1
-60 -                           Page 17
27.       Ietabek Project Management Unit.  For Botabek, the Project Man-
agement Unit (PMU) will be established with staffing provided by Vest Java
Province (Bappeda Tingkat I) with representatives from agencies in each local
government (Tingkat II) including Bappeda, PU. Bangdes, and Kesehatan, etc.
The PMU will be mainly responsible for prioritizing project iites, budgeting.
policy setting, coordination with other relevant agencies and monitoring and
evaluation of Tingkat II programs.
28.       Planning and Implementation Units (PIUs) will be organized in each
Botabek local government to:
(a) prepare plans, designs, specifications, surveys, cost estimates,
procurement and bidding;
(b) supervise construction works;
(c) execute and coordinate community development activities for motiva-
tion and involvement of the local residents; and
(d) work with the small business and employment development efforts.
29.       Site Offices.  Project Teams will be established by the RIP offices
in coordination and aRreement with the local leaders (Walikota, Camat or the
Lurah) to manage the day-to-day activities of the RIP program at the site
level. Each Project Team will be headed by a Team leader who will be the
principal point of interaction with the community and will coordinate all
other inputs. Community Development extension workers (mostly from community
development consultants or CD officers from the local government) at the
community level will report to the team leader.
30.       The Community Development workers, planners and engineers will be
based at the Project Site Offices to ensure regular interaction/dialogue with
the community leaders, community organizations/residents' associations estab-
lished for RIP. Day-to-day activities of supervision and Inspection of works
and technical guidance in self-help building (construction of sanitation
facilities, water connections, micro drainage, etc.) and neighborhood pro-
grams, will be undertaken from the Site Offices.
Community Orianization
31.       To realize the objectives of commmnity participation, and
motivation, the project will strengthen existing, and establish where there
are none, community organizations and specific groups (users' associations,
cooperativesicredit unions, etc.) for various specific purposes of the
program. A Project Committee will be established for each kelurahan
comprising the Lurah as the coordinator and representatives from LRDE, PIK and
the leaders of the neighborhood RWs/RTs with the Camat acting as the advisor.
Bappem Mal will work with the committee to:
(a) inform the kelurahan wide and specific kampung community of the
project;



PagoE 18
-6  -                           Page 1
(b) establish community development action groups (CDAGs) in each
kampung;
tc) identify the problems and needs of the community through surveys and
interviews;
(4)  identify the area and project components and train the CDAGs;
(e) form agreements with the CDAGs on project components, location,
costs, repayments and responsibilities;
(f)  organize and train water and sanitation users' associations which
will manage and operate public water and sanitation facilities; and
(g)  monitor implementation of the project subcomponents.
32.       The LKMD (Village Resilience Council) and the Family Welfare Move-
ment (PEK) will guide the formation of the CDAGs in aach kampung site and will
serve as the venue for community participation and as a forum for community
interaction and feedback concerning the project proposals and the manner of
their implementation. Each CDAG will be composed of community leaders repre-
senting a cross-section of the different groups/interests in the neighborhood
communities.
33.       Com mity Development and Participation.  As with overall program
implementation, the process of coimnity participation shall be carried out in
three stages and will take from two to three (2-3) years. These include:
(a) organization stage, (b) stabilization stage, and (c) turnover/
disengagement stage (community management):
(a) Stage It the organization stage of establishing the community
organizations will take form six to ten months depending on the
communities' interest and readiness including:
(i) introducing the concept of participation and the objectives of
the program, orientation training;
(ii) establishing the community organizations and agreeing the par-
ticipation of existing community groups to assure continuity
and acceptance of the program;
(iii) identifying social services programs and physical components;
and
(iv) establishing the community network involving the community, the
Bappem MHT office and other involved agencies and institutions;
(b) Stage II: the stabilization stame of strengthening the community
organizations' ability to participate in the program with activities
involving twelve to sixteen monthss
(i) actual planning and implementing long-range KIP action
programs;



AM=  I
- 62-                           Page 19
(ii)  training and skill development; and
(iii)  strengthening of communications to allow commLnity organiza-
tions to monitor and inform the Bappem MHT offices of issues
and problems in implementing overall or specific components of
the program;
(c)  Stage IIIs  the disensgaement or turnover stage effecting a gradual
and systematic turnover of social services, economic and public
facilities and activities which will take six to ten months to
complete, includings
(i)  evaluating the community organization/s capability to manage
social services, economic development and public facilities;
(ii) follow-up training for strengthening the community organiza-
tions' management; and
(iii) actual turnover of all activities to the communities and moni-
toring and evaluation of their activities.
34.       Evaluation Unit. An evaluation unit will be established in JUPCO
for RIP, staffed jointly by the Provincial governments of DKI and West Java.
The Unit will be headed by a competent social researcher and assisted by a
consultant. It will be designed to provide rapid feedback on the
organization, management and impact of RIP especially as it affects social
development of kampung residents and community organizations. It will
coordinate with the PRK office in each local government in carrying out
evaluation activities, particularly on community development activities of the
program under PKK's ten point program. It will also undertake impact
evaluation following completion of RIP activities. It will report to each SC
and to the PHU and PIU Directors.  It will have close and direct links with
the monitoring units in each of the PIUs. A summagry program review will be
undertaken each year with the participation of the World Bank.
35.       ProJect Acceptance Conmmittees (PACs) composed of members from the
respective PMUs, Inspectorate General, Bappeda and the kelurahan Project Com-
mittee shall be established to conduct final inspectionlacceptance of comple-
ted projects prior to their turnover to local government units and community
groups.
36.       PBA Committee.  There will be a Prequalification, Bidding and Awards
Committee (PBAC) in each local government to handle prequalification, bidding
and award of contracts.
37.       Consultants.  Local and expatriate consultants will be contracted as
needed to assist in project review, management, implementation support,
monitoring and evaluation of the program implementation. Regular technical
(engineering, financial management) and community development consultants
employed by the local governments will be attached to the PHU and will report
directly to the Program Director.



ANNX 1
-63 -                           Page 20
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
38.       The new KIP approach involves a substantial change in emphasis to
include not only physical infrastructure but also health and economic programs
and a fundamental change in style, emphasizing community participation and
support. This, it is hoped, will result in a KIP which is more responsive to
each communities' needs and which will engender greater community support for
maintenance and management of project facilities than under past phases of the
program. Monitoring of the KIP will reflect this approach and be designed to:
(i) provide rapid feedback to the SC and PMUs on issues and problems which can
be corrected during project implementation and (ii) information for subsequent
evaluation of overall project impacts on key social and economic factors. A
separate evaluation unit will be established reporting to the SC (and JUPCO
and PKR) and with the authority to require the PMns to collect information on
key indicators and allow access to PMU files and field operations.
39.       The overall scale of the program over the six year implementation
period is expected to cover kampungs in 95 kelurahans and 300,000 households
(1.5 million persons). Targets for levels of physical services in kampungs
are described in para. 12 above (design criteria). Actual service
requirements, however, will vary considerably from place to place since some
services have already been provided in kampungs under earlier RIPs. Moreover,
the new KIP, while emphasizing sanitation and health services, will be based
on a development program for each kampung prepared in consultation with the
community and agreed between the PMU and the Community Association. Precise,
pre-determined targets for individual services and number of persons affected
by them cannot, therefore, be established a priori for the whole program, but
only for individual kampungs based on the agreed Rampung Development Plan
which will thus be the basis for monitoring the physical, health and economic
components of the KIP.
40.       Careful monitoring will take place of environmental plans (RPLs),
the effectiveness of technologies selected for on-lot sanitation, of the
functioning of communal facilities (MCRs) and of the efficiency of garbage
removal away from the kampungs through secondary collection under the Priority
Solid Waste component of the project.
41.       Kampung surveys covering physical health, socio-economic conditions
and residents' priorities for improvements will be undertaken after
establishment of the Community Associations. Physical and health design
criteria will be applied to help define levels of service for inputs to the
Kampung Development Plan. Indicators to be used to measure existing problems
and conditions and the situation after RIP include:
*    flooding:  #, 2 of population affected daily, monthly, yearly
*   water supply:  #, Z of population with individual connections
*    sanitation:  #, 2 of population without access to operational
private or public facility
*    I of MCRs, I operational
*    accesss  #, X of houses without direct access to surfaced road or
footpath
*   waste disposalt frequency of household waste collection from:
(i) household, (ii) waste boxesjpiles



ANE  1
- 64 -                         Page 21
*    housing conditions:  # houses with temporary, semi-permanent,
permanent materials, max., min., average house floor area
*    health levels:  incidence of morbidity, mortality by key indicators,
school attendance, days absent from work
*    health facilitiess  I, X of population served, by health centers
(posy&ndus)
*    health program:
t people treated
I health cadres mobilized
* posyandus strengthened/developed
t persons involved in health ed. program
* persons contacted for Primary Health Care
*    economic programs:
t, Z of existing business wishing to expand. Constraints
identified.
, S of women interested to form coop. venture
' persons willing to undertake skill training
,, X of households willing to borrow for home improvements
. organisationslbusinesses assisted
' persons trained
' loans made, amounts, key purpose. Loan repayment
performance.
62.       In addition, the effectiveness of Community Participation and
Support will be monitored to determine when the NGOs and Community Development
Consultants should disengage from individual communities through the
establishment and operation of two types of organizations:
(a) the Community Association (CA) established with the assistance of
community consultants to interact with the PMU for the development
and implementation of the Xampung Development Plan. Indicators of
its operations are membership characteristics, attendance and
records of decisions of community meetings, and their
implementation.
(b) the Vater and Sanitation Associations (WSA) established to operate
and maintain the MCKs. Indicators of their effectiveness will
include the timing of their establishment, management arrangements
and staffing, membership enrollment, user fee performance levels,
and standards of maintenance of facilities.
43.       For assessments of socio-economic impacts after project completion,
the following indicators will be used:_
(a) rehabilitation of population displaced by the physical works--type
of compensation (cash, resettlement, etc.) and evaluation of living
standards before and after.
(b) economic benefits--the following indicators compared to those in
*controlled kampungs: house and plot sale prices, floor area
changes, including changes in rented space, and turnover of



Page 22
-65 -
population teeparately by owners and renters), changes in income
levels by business ownerslemployers.
(c) health benefits--changes In morbidity/mortality by key indicators,
school attendance, days absent from vork.



ANNEX 1
-66-                               Table 3
Page 23
INDONESIA
THIRD JAOTAEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUDP III
Table S01. COMMt4r I RUCTUE PROGRAM (KIP/RUHT 11) FOR oKa
Detail d Cost Table
Rp
Total* Including Contingencies
89/90    90/91    91/92    92/98    98/94    94/05   90/#6   Total
I. DWESTMNT coSTS
A. CONSTRUCON
Water supply              0.0   496.4   1896.6   1880.2   2225.7   1018.9       0.0   6976.1
Sanitation                0.0   1456.1   4108.0   5420.8   6579.9   8020.0      0.0  20584.2
Primry Drainage           0.0   1888.0  8754.5   4945.2   5092.9   2745.9       0.0  18771.5
Secondry Drainage         0.0    888.7   2508.0   8296.8   89905.    1880.6     0.0  12514.4
solid Wast                0.0   226.0   685.0   884.1   1000.2   400.7          0.0   8164.1
Butlding Improvement      0.0   8S4.2   1000.1   1820.6   1604.6    787.1       0.0   5016.5
Social Facilties          0.0    188.8   875.4   494.6   599.8   274.0          0.0   167.2
Satety/Socurity           0.0    188.6   876.7   496.7   602.4   276.8          0.0   188S.7
Acees                     0.0   768.4   2150.1   2882.0  U841.9   1572.5        0.0  10749.0
FED/Supervision           0.0   408.8   1160.8   1516.9   1889.6   848.5        0.0   6759.0
Sub-Total                  0.0   618.   17450.4  22995.8  27879.   12780.1       0.0  87298.5
S. Lond Acquisition            0.0    49.4    189.6   185.8   225.8   104.1         0.0   704.4
C. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMT
Technical assistance      5.7    28.7    50.2    69.6    68.0    87.0           0.0    249.0
Training                 175.2   550.4   977.8   1840.5    980.9   500.1        0.0   4628.5
Product Marketing         0.0    16.9    58.7    76.6    89.9    62.8           0.0    280.8
See capital               0.0   805.2    060.9   1806.6   1624.8  904.0         0.0   5220.5
Sub-Totel                 180.8   886.2   2061.0   2s8.8  n2766.6   16s8.        0.0  10866.8
D. SOCIAL DEWVLPMIdT
Technical asistnce        0.0    115.0   862.7   607.8   596.7    840.0         0.0   1982.6
Trainin                  146.8   M88.2    60s.1    771.6   407.6   289.2        0.0   2616.0
Motivtional Camtgn        0.0    120.0    888.6   540.4   642.8   877.0         0.0   2064.1
Oriontation Campign       0.0    82.2    es.2    72.0    95.1          0.0      0.0   267.5
H"lth                     0.0   851.1   1116.5   1571.2   1067.5   1006.2       0.0   6001.5
Sub-Tot l                 146.8  1002.8   2498.0  8462.6   8611.2   2061.4       0.0  1781.8
E. MANEMENT
Monitortig / Evaluation  15.2    47.9   8s.0   117.1    68.0    51.8            0.0   402.6
Training                 08.6   186.0   197.0   260.1         0.0      0.0      0.0    781.9
Incentiwv Al lowance     46.1   145.0   267.4    854.6    260.5   155.4         0.0   1219.0
Vehicle and Equipment    24.8     7.8    185.8   185.1    184.5    79.4         0.0   686.8
Sub-Total                 175.0   456.2    675.2    917.0   461.0   286.1        0.0   2980.8
Total IDWESTMENT COSS            02.2  0657.1  22614.4  80418.4  84964.8  1s65s.5      0.0 114161.9
Total                        602.2  0697.1  22614.4  80416.4  84964.8  16865.5      0.0 114161.9
- ValYue sled by 1000000.0 1/2/1960 8:47



-67- A-E   1
Table 4
Page 24
INDONESIA
THIRD  ABOTAEK URAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUDP III
Table 602. COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTIRE PROGRAM FOR MO. BOOOR
Detl led Cost Tabl-
Rp
Totals Including Continnmcios
89/90  90/91   91/92   92/98   98/94   94/9S   96/9#  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION
Water supply               0.0    0.0   65.6  149.6  145.8   51.0    0.0  411.4
Sanitation                 0.0    0.0  146.1  811.7  828.2  118.7    0.0  918.7
Drainage                   0.0    0.0  168.9  874.1  868.9  127.8    0.0  1029.6
Solid waot                 0.0    0.0   11.9   27.2   26.4    9.2    0.0   74.7
Building Improvement       0.0    0.0   22.1   60.7   49.4   17.4    0.0  189.6
Social FacIlties           0.0    0.0   90.1  205.7  200.1   70.8    0.0  566.8
Safoty / Security          0.0    0.0   86.0   86.7   64.6   29.7    0.0  286.9
Access                     0.0    0.0  162.9  872.0  861.8  127.1    0.0  1028.9
FED/Supervision            0.0    0.0   49.1  112.1  109.1   86.4    0.0  M8.6
Sub-Total                   0.0    0.0  740.0  1709.7  1668.7  564.6    0.0  4706.7
B. LAND ACqlISTON               0.0    9.8   15.6   11.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   86.4
C. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Technical assistance       0.0    2.8   10.8   16.6   16.4    6.9    0.0   64.9
Training                   0.0   26.6   70.4  106.0   80.0   84.2    0.0  816.8
Product Marketing          0.0    0.0    8.4    9.1    9.6    4.0    0.0   26.1
Seed capital               0.0    0.0   56.6  147.8  156.7   66.8    0.0  424.6
Sub-Total                   0.0   29.4   189.9  260.0  281.6  111.0    0.0  621.9
P. SOCIAL DEVELOPMEfT
Technical aoistance        0.0   16.4   48.4   64.7   49.8   21.1    0.0  194.9
Trainig                    0.0   29.8   62.1   78.6   48.8   16.8    0.0  226.8
Motivational Capign        0.0   16.8   40.5   60.4   46.0   19.1    0.0  161.9
Orientation Campaign       0.0    0.0    6.1    9.7    6.8    0.0    0.0   22.7
Ha lth                     0.0   80.6   61.0  120.8   92.1   89.4    0.0  868.9
Sub-Total                   0.0   91.0  288.1  829.5  287.6   98.4    0.0  990.8
E. MANAGEMENT
Technical Assistance       0.0    8.8   10.1   15.1   11.5    4.9    0.0   45.5
Monitoring / Evoluation    0.0    5.7   15.2   22.7   17.8    7.4    0.0   63.2
Training                   0.0   17.9   26.4   20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   66.2
Incentive Allowane         0.0   15.8   40.6   60.4   46.0   19.7    0.0  161.9
Vehicle and Equlpuant      0.0   12.0   81.9   47.0   86.2   15.6    0.0  148.2
Sub-Total                   0.0   54.6  129.1  166.?  111.0   47.5    0.0  605.0
Total TNVESTMENT COSTS             0.0  1865.  1268.8 2496.0 2278.9  841.6    0.0  7060.8
=                         --m= _   = 
Total                           0.0  185.5  1268.8  2466.0  2278.9  841.5    0.0  7060.8
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  1/1/1990  1:37



- 68 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 25
INDONESIA
THIRD JABWTAB8( UUAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUDP III
Table 508. CObNUEITY DNFRASTRUCTUitE PROGRAM FOR KIA. TANOERANO
Oetallod Cost Table
Rp
Total* Including Contingencles
69/90  90/91  91/92  92/98  98/94  94/96  96/9   Total
I. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION
Water supply              0.0    0.0   65.6  115.0  121.1   51.0    0.0  852.7
Sanitation                0.0    0.0  145.1  255.2  269.4  118.7    0.0  798.3
Orainage                  0.0    0.0  168.9  267.9  808.2  127.9    0.0  682.7
Solid waste               0.0    0.0   11.9   20.9   22.0    9.2    0.0   64.0
OulIding Improvemant      0.0    0.0   22.1   89.0   41.2   17.4    0.0  119.7
Social Facilities         0.0    0.0   90.1  168.8  166.6   70.8    0.0  4s5.5
Safety / Securitr         0.0    0.0   87.9  e6.6   70.0   29.6    0.0  208.9
Acces                     0.0    0.0  162.9  266.1  801.5  127.1    0.0  877.7
FED/Supervision           0.0    0.0   49.0   66.2   90.9   86.8    0.0  264.5
Sub-Total                  0.0    0.0  746.6 1814.9 1866.1  564.5    0.0 4084.0
a. LAND ACWJISITION            0.0    9.7   10.3   10.6    0.0    0.0    0.0   80.6
C. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Technical assitanco       0.0    2.9    8.8   15.5   la.1    6.9    0.0   47.2
Training                  0.0   26.B   66.8   90.2   68.6   84.2    0.0  27.1
Product Marketing         0.0    0.0    8.4    7.8    7.7    4.0    0.0   22.4
Seed capital              0.0    0.0   56.6  117.9  124.6   65.6    0.0  864.0
Sub-Total                  0.0   29.4  124.8  280.6  209.2  111.0    0.0  704.7
0. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Technical as*itance       0.0   16.4   84.7   55.6   89.8   21.1    0.0  167.1
Trainn                    0.0   29.8   46.6   65.6   84.7   18.8    0.0  194.5
Motivational Campgn       0.0   15.8   82.4   61.9   86.7   19.7    0.0  156.0
Orientation Campign       0.0    0.0    6.1    6.5    6.6    0.0    0.0   19.5
Health                     0.0   80.8   64.6  108.7   73.4   89.4    0.0  811.9
Sub-Total                  0.0   91.6  164.6  28.2  191.0    6.4    0.0  68.9
E. MANAGEMENT
Technical Assistance      0.0    8.8    8.1   18.0    9.2    4.9    0.0   89.0
Monitoring A Evaluation    0.0    5.7   12.2   19.4   18.6    7.4    0.0   56.5
Training                  0.0   17.9   16.9   20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   56.9
Incenti v Allowance       0.0   15.8   82.4   61.9   86.7   19.7    0.0  156.0
Vehicle- and Equipent     0.0   12.0   25.6   40.6   28.9   15.5    0.0  122.7
Sub-Total                  0.0   64.6   97.1  146.1   88.5   47.1    0.0  482.9
ToaI DINVESTMENT COSTS            0.0   165.5  1164.6  1964.9  1674.8 64.4    0.0  6051.4
uuinmm           i~sunama  -1820 muw       soam  -oeu
TOtal                          0.0  1865.6 1164.6 19U4.9 1674.6  841.4    0.0 6061.4
- Values *caled by 1000000.0 1/1/1980 1:38



-69 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 6
Page 25(b)
INDONESIA
THIRD JASOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUDP III
Table 604. COVPREHENSVE KIP FOR KAStPATEN BEKASI
Detailed Cost Table
Rp
Totals Ineluding Contingencis
89/90   90/U1  91/92   92/98   9/04   94/95   95/90   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CONTCTION
Water supply                0.0    0.0    65.6  149.6  145.8   61.0    0.0  411.4
Sanitation                  0.0    0.0   145.1  881.7  328.2   118.7        0.0   918.7
Drains"                     0.0    0.0   168.9  874.1  U86.9  127.6    0.0  1029.6
Solid * et                  0.0     0.0    11.9   27.2    26.4      9.2     0.0   74.7
Oul lding laprovement       0.0     0.0   22.1   60.7   49.4   17.4    0.0  139.6
Soci3 l FacilltIes          0.0    0.0    90.1   205.7  200.1    70.8       0.0  566.8
Satety / Security           0.0    0.0    88.0   66.7    64.5    29.7       0.0   239.9
Access                      0.0    0      162.9   8n.0   861.6   17.1       0.0  1028.9
FED/Sup.rvislon             0.0     0.0    49.0   111.6   106.7    88.2     0.0   807.0
Sub-Total                    0.0    0.0   748.6  1709.6  1668.8  664.6    0.0  4706.9
S. LAND ACQUISITION              0.0     9.8    15.6    11.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    86.4
C. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Technical assistance        0.0     2.6    10.8    16.0    10.4     6.9    0.0   64.9
Training                    0.0    26.6    70.4   105.0   60.0   84.2       0.0   316.8
Product Marketing           0.0    0.0      8.4     9.1     9.6     4.0     0.0   26.1
Sed capital                 0.0    0.0   S5.8   147.8   155.7   65.6        0.0   424.6
Sub-Total                    0.0   29.4   189.9  260.0   261.0   111.0       0.0  821.9
0. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Technical aesistance        0.0    16.4    48.4   64.7    49.8    21.1      0.0   194.9
Trnalin                     0.0    29.8    62.1    78.6    48.8    16.8     0.0   226.8
Notivaton I Ca_   lp        0.0    15.8   40.5    60.4    46.0   19.7       0.0   161.9
Orientation Ca_elgn         0.0     0.0    6.1      9.7     6.6     0.0     0.0    22.?
Helth                       0.0   80.6   61.0  120.6   92.1   89.4    0.0  868.9
Sub-Total                    0.0   91.6  288.1   829.5  287.6   96.4    0.0  990.8
E. MANAOEMENT
Technical Assistance        0.0     8.6    10.1   16.1   11.5       4.9     0.0   45.1
Monitoring A Evaluation     0.0     6.6   15.4    28.0    17.0      7.5     0.0   60.8
Training                    0.0    16.0    26.7    20.8    0.0    0.0       0.0   67.0
Incentlve Allo ewan         0.0    15.4    41.0   61.8    46.9   20.1       0.0   164.6
Vehicle  nd Equipent        0.0    12.1    82.8   46.8    86.9   15.6       0.0  146.4
Sub-Total                    0.    55.2   127.4   166.0   112.9   46.4       0.0   511.9
Total INVESTMENT COStS              0.0   166.0  1204.6  2496.0  2275.4   642.6     0.0  7066.2
Total                            0.0   186.0  1264.6  2490.0  2276.4  642.$    0.0  7066.2
- Values scaled by 1030000.0  1/1/1900  1:40



ANNEX I
- 70 -                          Page 26
P.  Comnniti Small Credit
44.       In the early stages of project formulation both the Bank and GOI saw
a need for a credit delivery system that would reach the low-income
communities in the kampungs of Jakarta. Existing government sponsored small
credit schemes (KIKIRHRP & KUPEDES) have not benefitted the informal sector of
the urban economy in the low-income communities. At the same time, demand for
small credit has been abundantly manifested by the existence of a growing
number of money lenders who lend short-term at interest rates which are
several times those charged by major lending institutions. Money lenders are
often the only source of small credit for the low-income urban borrowers
since, without exception, the small credit portfolios of major financial
institutions consist of much larger loan sizes than those needed by low-income
residents and small businesses in urban kampungs. Community-based financial
institutions (credit unions, cooperatives, savings and loans associations
etc.) have a comparative advantage in understanding small credit needs of
these client groups, but lack funds and management capabilities to be fully
effective as yet.
45.       KUPEDES--a small credit scheme serving rural communities throughout
Indonesia--established under Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) provides loans as
small as Rp. 100,000. The KUPEDES scheme, which emphasizes prompt delivery of
credit to borrowers and the financial soundness of the scheme, has been in
operation for a number of years with impressive success. KUPEDES was
established in 1984 as a multi-purpose credit program operated through the
sub-branch system of BRI in over 2,500 locations nation-wide. Each sub-
branch, or unit des& operates as a profit center within the BRI operational
structure, making loans, and mobilizing savings from deposits. The unit desa
loans are funded out of initial equity injection and borrowing from BRI, and
savings mobilizations. Loans which are made directly to individuals at
effective interest rates ranging from 22-452 p.a. are mostly for directly
productive activities. KUPEDES total assets have been expanding and the
operation.has remained profitable since 1984. However, KUPEDES was not
designed to serve urban communities, and thus its operations have not reached
urban communities yet. Other schemes such as KIK/KMRP which provide
investment and working capital loans are subsidized and directly controlled by
the government using government banking systems and are ineffective and costly
to operate.
46.       During project preparation the Bank, GOI and DKI Jakarta held
several discussions with a view to formulating, the organizational, and
financial strategy for instituting a micro-credit delivery system which would
provide improved access to the community for small credit needs and which
would also perpetuate itself on a sound financial basis. Following this broad
framework, the next step was for Jakarta to prepare specific proposals for the
small credit scheme with operational and financial objectives that would be
acceptable to the Bank, GOI and to DRI.
47.       There is wide-spread recognition that the involvement of at least
one major existing financial institution with experience in small credit
operations would minimize the start-up costs of expanding formal sector credit
to low-income communities. There is also a perception that small credit



ANNEX 1
-71-                            Page 27
operations are generally characterixed as administratively expensive and that
major financial institutions are less attracted without some encouragement
from the government. To bring credit close to the community level, the use of
existing (or future) community-based intermediaries (CBEI) vould be strongly
encouraged and promoted. CBFls whose work is traditionally community-
oriented, are better placed to understand the specific credit needs of the
community. Such community-based intermediaries could include Cooperatives,
NGOs, Savings and Loans Associations, Credit Unions. Together with the
managing financial institution, CBFI's are viewed as strong agents for
retailing loans to the community. A number of NQOs in the country have been
involved in the administration of some of the government sponsored credit
schemes. Community-level cooperatives, credit unions, and savings and loans
associations are still at a formative stage of development and have no credit
history as yet. The following principles were agreed as the framework for
developing an acceptable organizational and operating set-up of a community
small credit scheme in Jakarta.
48.       The Community Credit Scheme
*    To be established under DRI Jakarta SK Governor's decree as a
revolving fund which will provide funds to participating CBFIs
(through BPD) in the form of equity (40 percent) and loan
(60 percent).
*    Initial amount of capitalization to be determined on the basis of
reasonable estimate of potential loan demand for a 5 year period
from Jakarta's low-income commmnities.
*    initial capitalization will be provided by DKI Jakarta and recovery
of investments in on-lot sanitation.
49.       Credit Organization and Management
*    BPD Jaya (the regional development bank) has been nominated by DKI
to manage the fund and will be strengthened by TA which will provide
for establishment of sound accounting and loan administration
systems.
*    Separate management will be appointed, independent of BPD
operations.
*    CBFI's will be accredited to assist in the delivery of credit at the
community level. Each will have the discretion of loan approval,
and will bear the full credit risk in the event of defaults by their
borrowers.
*    BPD will be responsible for selecting and supervising CBF1s and will
monitor their performance.
*    CBFIs would seek advice and assistance from the community
organizations (LOW) for mobilization of loan demand and borrower
assessmentslidentification. It will also use these community



- 72 -                          ANNEX I
Page 28
organizations help educate borrowers about the importance of
compliance with debt service conditions.
*    DXI will monitor performance of BPD. Performance indicators would
define the limit of a tolerable level of bad loans. In order for
BPD management performance to be acceptable, bad loans/loan losses
should be maintained consistently below 5 of loan portfolio. DRI
will review this indicator from time to time but no less that once
in a quarter.
*    Should the loan losses consistently exceed the set limit, DKI would
review the need to strengthen management, or would identify another
financial institution to replace BPD in managing the small credit
portfolio.
50.       Performance Incentives
-   The services of the BPD or any other financial institution will be
paid for from portfolio operations.
*    A fee will cover operating and administrative costs and a share of
the profits from operations will be paid to the management on the
basis of reimbursements.  To facilitate the analysis of performance,
separate accounts of portfollo cperations will be maintained.
*- Reimbursements to BPD Jaya will be made only when the performance of
the management meets at least the minimum requirements viz, keeping
loan losses below the limit and attaining a profitable operation.
* Should BPD fail to meet the set performance targets, no
reimbursement will be made for its services until the situation is
corrected.
*    CBFI's will have to generate large enough loan portfolios to ensure
their financial viability. Their principal sources of income will
be the interest rate spreads between their cost of funds as
determined on the basis of the capital structure and their on-
lending rates to borrowers. Their services will depend on their
ability to select quality borrowers with viable investment proposals
and good prospects for debt servicing.
51.       Interest Rate Structure
*    Interest rates will be far lower than those charged by money
lenders, but no subsidy is envisaged. Interest rates will be in the
range of about 2Z per month and will cover: (a) cost of funds, (b)
credit administrative costs, and (c) modest return on equity. The
underlying assumption is that at the community level access to
credit is more important than the level of interest rates. This
assumption will be tested by the level of demand generated. Sole
emphasis is, therefore, placed on providing credit promptly to all
credltworthy loan applicants irrespective of the purpose. In a way
the CC serves as a pilot to test the theory of credit access.



- 73 -IEXA                          1
Page 29
52.       Loan Conditions Guidelines
*    Borrowers proof of abode - at least 3 years in a Kelurahan.  The
assumption here is that relatively established borrowers are more
likely to comply with loan conditions than transient residents.
*    Borrowers credit worthiness - borrower should show evidence of
income from which loan will be repaid. Generally, monthly debt
service resulting from the loan should not exceed 25Z of income.
Exception to be permitted on a case-by-case basis.
*    Loan maturities to range from as short as 3 months, to as long as 5
years. Enough flexibility must be allowed to test what the market
demands are. Working capital loans would have shorter maturities
than investment loans (purchase of fixed assets) to be with longer
maturities. Short maturities would be encouraged since they permit
a more rapid funds turnover, thereby increasing fund availability to
more borrowers.
*    Loan Purpose - The scheme should serve as a multi-purpose credit
system. But a large share of the loans should be devoted to
productive activities. The real economic gain would be income and
or employment generation, as these low-income camunities are the
staging points for new migrants seeking jobs.
*   Any collateral with reasonable market value to be acceptable as
security for loans. Collateral provided through groups of
borrowers, or any social groups such as the oarisan' (savings) and
*tang-gung reteng' (group responsibility) would be encouraged.
CBFIt's would use LMHD to its advantage without allowing interference
with the loan approval process. Loan amount to be at least 25?
lower than the market value of the collateral provided. Collateral
must have an assessable market value. This limitation will reduce
the risk of loan losses in the event repossession becomes necessary.
*    Loan amounts should generally be flexible, but should qualify as
small credits. Definition of small credit should be consistent with
one applied under the BRI's KUPEDES rural credit scheme described
above (para 2).
*    Use of personal auarantees should be encouraged in cases where
collateral is not adequate.
*    Loans will be multi-purpose, but social purposes such as weddings,
parties health care and education and any other forms of
celebrations are not eligible.
*    Grace period up to 25? of loan maturity may be permitted, during
which interest only is payable.



ANNEX 1
74 -                          Page 30
*   Method of loan repayment must be flexible and should be determined
at the approval of the loan: either a fixed monthly payment of
combined principal and interest, or a monthly payment of interest
alone for each month the loan is outstanding, and the final month
payment to include total principal plus interest for the month,
(balloon payment).
53.       Capital Structure
It is important to provide adequate cushion of funds to sustain the
portfolio through initial difficulties associated with the start-up of the
fund, particularly before repayments begin to flow in.
*   A debt to equity ratio of 60/40 is considered desirable to provide
this financial cushion and it is proposed that funds be provided in
that ratio. The equity part would be drawn down before the loan to
minimize interest charges.
*    To reduce the early cash drain CEFIs would face in the early stages
of building their portfolioss
a.   the interest bearing loan (60Z) will be advanced to CBFIs as a
conventional loan with standard terms and conditions (interest
rate, maturity and repayment terms).
b.   a fixed-income based equity contribution (402) will also be
made available on which payment is made only after income is
realized from operations of the CBFIs. This equity-type
capital is provided only for the initial years of operation and
would later be redeemed out of surplus generated.
G. Community Development and Training Program - Summary
I. Scope
54.       Community development is a key element of the new revitalized KIP
under the project and the provision of training is a major aspect of this
process.
55.       In conjunction with informational, promotional and motivational cam-
paigns targeted at entire communities, specific types of training are provided
to identified groups of recipients within communities.
56.       Based in the characteristics of the low-income kampung population in
Jabotabek, an indicated 80,000 training recipients will participate in
programs aimed at upgrading socioleconamic conditions and enhancing the
capability of communities and their local organizations to participate more
comprehensively with the KIP agencies in selecting, planning, implementing and
maintaining physical improvements in their neighborhoods.



75AMN   1
~ 75            ~             Page 31
II.  Traini  Objectives
General Obiectives
57.  (a)  to assist in the development of attitudes, knowledge and skills
required in communities and with RIP implementing agencies.
(b) to support the effective execution of a community based, participa-
tive RIP.
(c)  to help ensure that project implementation will not be constrained
by an inadequate supply of trained manpower and that project
benefits will be realized, and will more likely be sustainable.
Specific Obiectives
58.       KIP training is intended:
(a) to support the planning, development and maintenance of basic infra-
structural services in selected kampungs.
(b) to mobilize community participation in improving living standards in
their neighborhoods.
(c) to support efforts at poverty alleviation and income generation.
4d) to upgrade project management capability of the KIP implementing
agencies.
III.  Strategy for KIP Covmmrity Development and Training
59.       Community development is a long-term process with few short cuts.
The most crucial achievement of KIP will be to bridge the gap between program
recipients and the responsible agencies. The mobilization of skilled and
experienced community development consultants is aimed at building rapport and
mutual trust between the two principal actors, which is essential for
successful community-based infrastructure development.
60.       Prior to physical development tasks and related training activities,
community motivation, commitment and willingness to accept collective respon-
sibility for improving neighborhood living standards, must be established.
Accordingly, the community development process is phased to begin in advance
of (about one year before) commencement of physical infrastructure projects,
in kampungs selected for RIP under the project. Due to the evolutionary
nature of community development, full momentum is not expected to be reached
before completion of the second project cycle i.e., development of the first
30 Relurahan in DRI.
61.       In order to promote and support the optimal advancement of this
process, the following activities are envisagedt
(a) training and active field participation of executing agency staff
tVWPNU/PTUs



-76 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 32
(b) employment of experienced and suitable community development consul-
tants (CDC);
(c) preparation of guidelines and criteria for planning, implementation
and monitoring of the social, physical (OEM), and economic develop-
ment components;
(d) synchronizing/phasing the social development and physical develop-
ment components;
(e) learning by doing, i.e., putting into practice lessons learned
through monitoring and evaluating the ongoing community development
process. through analysis of the reports of monthly CDAG workshops
and evaluation workshops, on completion of each KIP cycle;
(f) utilizing other existing program-related (i.e., community-oriented)
training programs, (e.g, Dikmas skill training programs), to augment
and supplement training provided under the Economic Development
Component.
v. Target Audiences/TraininR Beneficiaries
62.       Approximately 80,000 people residing in 95 kelurahans in the
Jabotabek area are targeted for exposure to informational, orientation and
motivational campaigns. Further to this, several hundred people per Kelurahan
will receive various degrees of formal and informal training, either as groups
of community level functionaries in social, health and economic organizations,
or as individual recipients of job skill or small business development
training.
63.       The primary target audiences for program-related training in each
Kelurahan therefore, will be a number of discrete organized groups, (such as
facility user groups) or enterprises (such as the elected managers of credit
union cooperatives). RIP training beneficiaries generally divide into 3
principal categories:
Ca) program staff (full and part-time), including community officials,
who will receive formal training for their specialized key roles in
motivating and coordinating the expanded role of the community in
implementing the program;
(b) community members and user associations, who will undergo training
to manage, operate and maintain the infrastructure facilities to be
provided;
(c) individual community members, who will individually and collectively
receive training aimed at developing employable skills and hence,
income generating capacity.



ANNEX 1
-77 -                           Page 33
V. Training Program Content
KIP Community Development
64.       A set of training programs has been designed to support each of the
community-level development activities--the Social Development and Economic
Development components. Separate KIP orientation training programs have been
prepared for approximately 40 kampung and 20 community-level officials per
Kelurahan, and a further 1,500 local government officials drawn from the
project agencies and participating Kecamatan, Walikota and Kelurahan. This
program will be synchronized with the implementation of successive groups of
Kelurahan.
Social Development Trainina
65.       The focus of social development training is to prepare and equip the
members of the social development task force to be established in each
Kelurahan for their key roles as leaders, motivators and coordinators of KIP
program implementation.
66.       The prime elements of the community development task force in each
Kelurahan and a summary of the training envisaged is as follows:
(a) The CDO and TSO members. Training is received jointly and is aimed
at developing the attitudes, knowledge and skills required for their
roles as leaders of community development in their respective
Kelurahan. This intensive 15-day training program comprises 6
parts:
1.  KIP Orientation
2. community development methodology
3.  training
4.  community organization
5.  management and motivation
6.  field work
(b) CDAGs, are the initiators and motivators of community participation,
and their training is structured accordingly.
(c) CDAG monthly Workshops. In addition to their basic training, CDAG
members will attend a monthly half-day training workshop, which is
intended to provide an opportunity for progress reporting and evalu-
ation. Follow-up familiarization training will also follow for
those involved in the various component aspects of social develop-
ment, such as health care, nutrition, low-cost sanitation, operation
and maintenance of physical facilities, etc. Technical staff from
relevant agencies or public enterprises, e.g., PDAM Jaya, will be
invited to lead workshops focused on their specialized expertise.



- 78 -                 ~~~~ANNEX I
- 78 -                          Page 34
Operations and Maintenance Training
67.       During the construction of physical infrastructure and facilities in
each Kelurahan, a series of meetings and workshops will be arranged and con-
ducted by the CDO and CDAG to motivate, encourage and mobilize community
participation to form user associations to manage, operate and maintain the
facilities to be provided under the KIP physical cemponent. Practical on-the-
job training will be provided to user groups, covering basic, routine and pre-
ventive maintenance tasks needed to ensure sustainability of the respective
installations.
Economic Development Trainina
68.       The major focus of economic development training, will be to support
income generation activities. A second area of concern is training for the
establishment and operation of a credit union cooperative CBFIs in each
Kelurahan. Although other training needs related to economic development are
expected to emerge as the RIP evolves, the following initial package of
training programs has been prepareds
(a)  Management Training for managers of existing cooperatives and the
proposed small-scale credit facilities (CBFIs). Training is
provided mainly through one-on-one coaching and counselling by
appropriately qualified Community Development Consultants (CDC).
Training programs for formation and operation of CBFIs, will be
conducted by Credit Union Coordination (CUCO/BP3) DKI Jakarta
region, with inputs from BPD Jaya (Bank Pembangunan Daerah).
(b)  Small Business Training.  Training for managers or proprietors of
small businesses, in simple management techniques, marketing,
problem solving, book-keeping and cash flow management. Follow-up
technical assistance will be provided periodically to each partici-
pant, to review progress. A consultation clinic will also be
formed.
(c) Skill Training/Job Creation Program. During the first year of the
RIP three-year cycle, a training survey will be conducted. This is
to determine skills locally in demand, as a basis for commencement
of an informal skills training and apprenticeship program. Pilot
surveys indicate a fairly regular pattern of demand for particular
skills, such as electronic and electrical technicians, automotive
mechanics, construction skills, hairdressing and beauticians,
handicraft artisans, shoe repair and tailoring.
Apprentices will be placed with local businesses willing to accept
such trainees for an agreed number of months. A small mobilization
payment would be paid to such informal trainers and also an average
training allowance to each trainee of approximately Rp 60,000.
This local informal apprenticeship training is to be complemented by
the existing formal apprenticeship program available through voca-
tional training centers located throughout Jakarta.



_79 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 35
The TSO, assisted by an assigned technical expert at Bappem MHT,
will maintain concerted efforts in job skill training, placement and
referral, with particular focus on unskilled, unemployed and out-of-
school youth in the community.
td) Achievement Motivation Training. Focused primarily on unemployed
youth--skilled and unskilled--this training is aimed at strengthen-
ing their capacity for self-assessment. Guided by the community
development consultant, awareness is promoted among young people of
their potential for self-development and to contribute to, and bene-
fit from, the aims and objectives of the new KIP, which will itself
create a variety of job opportunities.
VI. Technology Transfer
69.       The principal avenue of technology transfer is the preparation and
equipping of community task force groups for establishment in each Kelurahan,
i.e.s
a    The Community Development Organizer (CDO)
3    The Technical Service Organization (TSO)
*    The Comumity Development Action Group (CDAG)
70.       These groups play key roles as leaders, motivators and coordinators
of KIP implementation, as the agents of change, and as links with the govern-
ment RIP executing agencies.
71.       The transfer of technology to and through these groups, is effected
by preparing workshops, where specialized technical staff from relevant enter-
prises and specialized DRI Directorates will be invited.
VII. Technical Assistance
72.       The provision of tecbnical assistance is intended to support the
PMUIPIUs in DKI and Botabek in the two principal areas of community social
development and community economic development. Accordingly, community
development specialists, community relations specialists and community
development organizers (3 personnel in DXI and 2 in Botabek) are allocated to
Bappem MHT and the Botabek implementing agencies.
73.       The roles of these assigned experts (to be documented in formal job
descriptions) are essentially to support the implementation of social develop-
ment by assisting the CDOs and CDAGs by active fieldwork in the respective
Kelurahan.
74.       Similarly, technical assistance from experts in finance, small-scale
credit and tr.ining will be provided, to Bappem HHT in DKI and the Botabek
implementing agencies, to support the economic development program at
community level. The financial expertise is provided to furnish ongoing
assistance and consultation to local businesses and particularly to the small-
scale credit facility (CBPIs) in each Kelurahan.



80 -                          ANNME 1
Page 36
75.       The training assistance is intended to help the TSOs develop systems
and procedures for surveying local job skill needs and the placement of
trainees in appropriate courses. The training specialist can also be
responsible for ensuring that the concept of learning by doing is applied
wherever possible, throughout the range of implementation activities.
VIII. Implementation
Ilplementation Plan
76.       Due to the magnitude and variety of training activities to be
carried out at disparate locations, a separate implementation plan for
training is currently under preparation. PMUs and PIUs will assume and share
responsibility for training program implementation, in association with sub-
PIUs working directly to a group of Kelurahan. This will necessarily include
clear fiscal and implementation responsibilities of the key officials involved
in the training program at each KIP organizational level, from Bappem MHT in
DKI and the local government KIP units in Botabek, through the CDO, TSP and
CDAG working groups in each of the 95 Kelurahan. T/A will similarly be
mobilized in respective PWUs/PIUs, with training tasks and responsibilities
clearly specified in consultant terms of reference.
77.       Also specified will be arrangements and conditions for the
disbursement of training funds against statements of expenditure for each
discrete training activity or expense.
Action Plan
78.       The KIP Community Development and Training Action Plan will
incorporate training management systems including:
(a) Clarification and prioritization of training objectives.
(b) Identification of target audiences (size, function, etc.).
(c) Clarification of the training strategy (training policies,
sequencing, etc.).
(d) Fund disbursement arrangements.
(e) Arrangement of training schedule.
(f) Training implementation.
This action plan will be arranged by a Training Committee joined by Dinas,
CDCs, Contractors, Consultants, etc., with work distribution clearly stated.
IX. Costs (Attached)



ANNEX 1
- 81 -                       Page 37
X.  Training Development Program
79.       Training development program under the project consists oft
(a) Community Level Training
(b) Staff Development Training.
80.       Community Level Training
(a) Community level officials
Training participants       t   Lurah, LKMD, etc.
Training objectives         s   Orientation to RIP Objectives,
Methodology, etc.
(b) Kampung level officials
Training participants       s   Ketua RWIRT
Training objectives         *   Orientation to KIP Objectives,
Methodology, Scope, etc.
(c)  Community Relations Officers (CRO)ITechnical Service Organization
(TSO)
Training objectives         s   Job training for positions as RIP
organizers, coordinators and imple-
mentors.
(d) Community Development Action Groups (CDAG)
Training participants       s   Community Motivators (3 Bina)
Training objectives         s   Job training for the Coouunity
motivators.
(e)  CDA. Workshop
-  monthly meetings
81.       Health Training
(a) Community Health Worker Training
(b) Workshop
82.       Economic Development Trainins
(a) NBFIs      Cooperative Credit Union Training:  Specialized training
for elected managers of community level credit union
cooperatives (KOPDIT - RIP).
(b) Small Business Developments Management training to develop
capability of small business managers.
(c) Job Skill Training. Skill training in areas of identified oppor-
tunity: auto mechanic, sewing, beautician, hairdressing, electrical
repair, electronics, handicrafts, etc.



ANNEX 1
- 82 -                         Page 38
Staff Development Training
83.       in-country Trainins for Government Officials & Staff.
1.  PMUIPIT Bappem
2.  Dinas-dinas & Bureau
3.  National Agencies
4.  Vilayah
5. *Kecamatan
6.  Puskesms
Training objectives         s   Orientation to new KIP Objectives,
Methodology, Scope, etc.
84.       In-Service Trainina Program
1.   Strengthening Technical Support Skills
2.   Planning & Implementation
3.   Specialized Skills (sanitation engineering, credit, IUIDP)
4.   Computer applications
-    Project information system
-    Training Program Data base
85.       Overseas Training.  Management Program Development upgrading (water
supply, sanitation, solid waste).



AM= IE1
Table 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
TEIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Non-Physical Cost Estimates
Jabotabek KIP
Total     Total
DRI    Bogor   Tangerang  Bekasi  Botabek  Jabotabek            Remarks
Economlc Development
Technical Assistance        118,000   26,000    22,000    26,000     74,000    192,000
Training                  2,200,000  149,000   128,000   149,000    426,000  2,626,000
Product Marketing           134,000   12,000    10,300    12,000     34,300    168,300
Seed Capital              2,416,000  194,000   167,000    94,000    455,000  2,871,000
42868,000  381,000   327,000   381,000  1,089,000  5,956,000
Social Development
Technical Assistance        916,000   92.000    79,000    92,000   263,000  1,179,000
Training                  1,213,000  108,000    93,000   108,000    309,000  1,522,000
Motivational campaign       956,000   86,000    73,000    86,000    245,000  1,201,000
Orientation                 127,000   11,000     9,200    11,000     31,200    158,200
Bealth                    2,780,000  171,000   147,000   171,000    489,000  3,269,000
5,992,000  468,000   401,000   468,000  1,337,000  7,329,000
Management
Tecbnhical Assistance                 21,000    18,400    21,000     60,000     60,000
Monitoring and Evaluation    191,000   32,000    28,000    32,000    92,000    283,000
Training                    368,000   33,000    28,000    33,000     94.000    462,000
Incentive Allowance         580,000   86,000    73,400    86,000    159,000    739,000  Grand total
Vehicle and equipmeit       312,000   64,000    55,000    64,000    183,000    495,000  non-physical
1.452,000  236.000   203,000   236,000    675,000  2,126,000  15,411,000



AM5EX 1
Table 7
Page 2
Cost Estimates for Economic Development Prosram
75 Belurahan in DKI
Component                      Person  Amount   Unit cost              Cost                  Remarks
/lm
1. Technical Assistance
a. Financial/small credit            2        48  1,000             96,000               2 persons 48 mm
b. Training specialist                1       24    900             22,000               1 person  24 lut
Subtotal Technical Assistance
- Economic Development                                         118.000
2. Economic Dev't Training
a. NBPI Credit Union                 10       25    7.0  (75)      131,250               10 persons, 25 days
b. Small Business Dev't              50       25    7.0  (75)      656,250               50 persons, 25 days
c. Skill Training                  150        25    5.0  (75)    1,406,250
Subtotal Training
- Economic Development                                      (2,193,750)-2,200,000
3. Job Placement/Referral             Kel             1.75            134,000               Rp 1 million/Kel/year
Product Marketing Advisor            75
4. NBFI Seed Capital                    75          16,000          (2,400,000-2,416,000   Rp 28 million/Kopted
Total Cost for Economic Dev't Program (1+2+3+4) Cs)                         4,868,000
Total Cost for Economic Dev't PRogram DRI (1+2+3+4) (Rp)                8,665.040,000
Average Cost/Kelurahan DKI Economic Development ($)                             65,000
Average Cost/Kelurahan DII Economic Development (Rp)                       115,534.000



-85-                                 AM1 
Table 7
Page 3
Cost Estimate for Social DOelo_pmnt Progrm
75 Itlugafa In UKI
unit
Componnt                 Peron   Amount    Cost              Cost            R_rks
1. Technical Assistneo
a. Coamnity D't Spec.        2     60         900      100,000             2 pes/610 stfmoontho
b. Comunity Dev't org.       1     22         600      606,260             1 pers/21.5 affuothe
Subtotal Technical Assietoance - Social Development    (014,20)    Ole,
2. Troinn
2.1igge:lfo/Cmunity D"'t
*.mmunitwy level offc.    25       12         4.C      101,2W0             26 peron/Kel
b. Km"PU  levl off.         15     15         4.5      76,000              16 persosJl
C. CR0 and TSO              15     15        16.0       804,00             15 peron/Kel
d. CIMO                     25     16         7.0      197,000             25 Pero"/Il
*. DAG montely workshop    26      12         4.5      101,0A0             25 per_  /K l
Subtota1 2.1                                           M0l000
2.2 Heaith Trainino
a7C.   _ iijey H  ith Worker  35   15         7.0      273,000             85 peot      el
b. CHM  onthly Workshop     85     12         4.5      142,000             85 per_o/Kl
Subtota1 2.2                                           417,000
Subtotal Training - Socil Development (2.1.2.2)    (1,1907000) s*y 1.218.000
S. Motlvational Cnmpalin       76 Kei         12,300    903,000
4. Orientation Camplan        76 Kl                     140,000
Subtotal CampIgn - Soclil Developmnt (8.4)          (1.07.00)    1019,000
5. HeIth Progrm
i1 ite I    jru.            75              7,600      568,000
b. Environmental HYaltb     75              2,500      107,000
c. HEIC                     75              7,500 5O,000
d. Health Facilities Serv.                           1,250,000              Estimated
e. Health Study of Urban                               210,000
Poor In Jakorta
Subtotal Health Sociol Developmet                   (2.778.000)    2.760.000
Total Cost for Social Devalopo nt Proram
75 gel OI O3)                                                   56992.000
Total CO t for Social 0evillopment Pnrmo,e
76 Ke lOKI EMp)                                             10.06000.0O.000
Average Cost/Klurabhn OKI Socalf Devlopmnt (8)                        SO-O00
Averega Coot/K lurabhn KI ESoclal Development (Rp)               142.000.000



ANNEX 1
- 86 -                          Table 7
Page 4
Cost Estimates For Management 75 Kelurahan in DXI
Unit
Component                    Person  Amount  Cost      Cost    Remarks
Management
1. Monitoring/Evaluation                                192,000
2. Management Training
A. In-Country Training
a. PMUIPIU                    140      10     7.0      9,800
b. Dinas-dinas                 100     10     7.0      7,000
c. National Agencies            30     10     7.0      2,100
d. Vilayah                      50     10     7.0      3,500
e. Kecamatan                  200      10     7.0     14,000  5 x 40
f. Puskesmas                  900      10     7.0     63,000  12 x 75
Subtotal                                           99.400
B. In-service Training
a. Strengthening Technical
Support Skllls           200     20    18.0      72,000
b. Planning & management        SO     20    18.0     18,000
c. Specialized skills           75     15    18.0     20,250
(sanitation credit)
d. Computer application         15     30    18.0      8,100
subtotal                                          121,050
C. Overseas Training Management
Program Development, etc.    30      20     250    150,000
Subtotal Management Training 2A+2B+2C             370.000
3. Incentive Allowance                                  580,000
4. Office Equipment Vehicles                            310,000
Total Cost for Manasement
Development Program (1+2+3+4)                    1,452,000
Total Cost for Management
Development Program (RP)                         2,584,560



ANNX 1
- 87-                           Table 7
Page 5
Total and Average Non-Physical Project Cost for
75 Kelurahan in DKI
Component                                   Cs)            Rp        Total Cost
Percentage
1. Economic Development Program          4,868,000   8,665,040,000       45
2. Social Development Program            5,992,000  10,665,761,000       55
100
Total Project Cost for 75 Kelurahan
(excluding Management Development) 10,860,000 19,330,801,000
Average Cost per Kelurahan in DRI       144,800
Total Project Cost Non-Physical DRI
1. Economic Development Program          4,868,000   8,665,040,000       40
2. Social Development Program            5,992,000  10.665,761,000       48
3. Management Development Program        1,452,000   2,584,560,000       12
12.312,000  21.915,361.000      100
Notes $1 - Rp 1,780.



-88 -ANNEX I
Tabie 7
Page 6
Colt lu lts  for leoWle iO evel!nt Proa
Nu KelUrafto vt
Component                   Porn    Amount    Cot              Cos                   Remark*
1. Temicel Assistance
a. ftlI   al aIEtredit       1        40       1,000     40,000             2 person, 40 tbeflsonthe
b. Tralning Sp.-             1        24       1,000     24,000             1 person, 24 steftmontbo
Subtofta Teohleal Aselstanc - Ecoomle 0Ov't             U72.000   74,000
2. Ea. Dev't TrnintS
2. s!bev'tt unIo            17        25       7.0       00,000    x 20    10 persons, 25 days
b. Small it Ousunsesv't     s0        26       7.0       175,000    x 20    100 por'ons, 25 day
C. SIllcl TrenIng           76        25       5.0       107,500    x 20    10  ron, 21 Cdys
Subtotal Tralning - Eeonemic DOv't                      (422.000) 42.000
S.* Jobp Pl!gv!Wlb  t l
rrou. P brkf ng Ee          20                1.75                 84,800   Rp 20,000,000 per Credit
4.  aC1 Seed Lalital           20              10,000                486,000   Unlon COWr. (20) (KWIT-EP)
Totl Cost for Econmle  w'*t Proorm (1+2.84) tO                989,J00.000
Total Cost tor Economic Devt Prora  (1Q2.8.4) (Pp-)             1700.94.000
Avere Cost/Keolurabon - 20 Ibi, Botabel (0)                    49,46,000
Averg Cost/eluraha  - 20 KNI, Botabek (p,-)                     9.047700



ANNEX 1
-89 -                                  Tablei
Poge 7
Cost CEstmete. For Social Dev.lo_ Preom
20 lWluralian in 5ote"d    Im
Unit
Cmponnt                       Perno     Amount      Cost           Cost                    emarto
1. Technleal Asistane
*. C_imunity R l.lGii          1       40        1,000      48,000              1 pron, 40 staffmenthlflsl
b. C_munity Oov'tIOr          1      21.5          50      215,000              1 Peson, 21.5
Subtotal Techniael Asistaence - social Dv't                268.000
2. Trian 
2.1       amunity Oe't
*. Community leYel offo.     2S        12   20    4.8       2T,000              26 persons per Kelurshaf
b. Kempuag level offi. 16             16   20    4.5        20,250              15 Pro   pr Kelunran
e. CRO A TSO                  1S      16   20   16.0        81,000              16 peonS pwr Kelurhabn
d. COaG                      25        15   20    7.0       52,500              25 p_ero   per Kolurhn
s. CAOA monthly workshop      2S       12   20    4.6       27,000              26 persons pwr Klunrahan
Subtotal 2.1                                               180,7S0
2.2 H"lth Tralnng
a. Comunit Health Worker   85         if  (20)     7.0      70,510              So Pon, 16  Vy/tIl
b. =W Monthly Workshop        8        12  (20)    4.5      47,250              U person, 12 dqysbl
Subtota1 2.2                                               120
Subtotal Tralning - Social   elopment                      (802,000) 300,000
8. Mivotlonal Camaion           20                 10,000     245,000
4. Orientatlon Campsicn                                        J1,200              Etliated
Subttal Campaigns - Social ODelopment                      270.200
5.  rIath PXcrir Ibl
Ith ""ISo arviezo           "M                   5,010     147,000
b. Environmental H"lth       20                  1,6        45,000
c. NEC                        20                 5,016      147,000
d. Neslth Equipmnt                                          150,000
Subtobal Helth - Social lev.lop t                          4.o
Total Cost for Soieal o vDt. Prooram
f'or 20 We/00"OWas  (ii                                 1,887.20
Total Cost of Social Dev't Program
for 20 Kel/ofabek (60.-)                          2.85,0,210000
Average Cost for Social Dev"'t/lelurahan,
otabek (S)                                            66.00,000
Avere Cost for Social Dev't/Kelurahan,
eotabl (Rp,-)                                        110,010,000



ANNX 1
- 90 -                                  Table 7
Page 8
Cost Eftr tnP   For Mbangx xt
Re urs *n n B ot tzz
uinit
Component                     Person    Amount      Cost            Cost                    Romrke
1. Technical Aaolten n
lite Planning a Eng.           1        60        1,000       60,000
Imp lementation
Subtot .: Technical Assiatance - Management .00000
2.  4ontorlng a Evaluation
*' Monitoring a Evolustlon                                    92,000
b. Support
Subtotal Moniltoring A Evaluation - gMnagement .2000
8. Unagment - Staff Dev*t Training
A. In-country Training:
KIP Objectives, Strategy,
Methodology, *tc.
3. PMU/PIU                                                     5,000              Est. Coat : OKI  a 0.266
b. Dinas-dinas A bureus                                        2,000              Est. Coa t.   KI  x 0.266
c. Notional Agencles                                             700              Est. Coat I OKI  x 0.266
d. WIlIyah                                                     1,000              Eat. Coat s OKI  x 0.206
a. Keecaatan                                                   6,000              Eat. Cost sDKI  x 0.26o
f. Puekeema_                                                  20,000              Est. Coat  tOKI x 0.206
Subtotal SA                                                   U8,700
B. In-servlce Training Prog.
Strengthening TechnIcal Support Sikillo                    15,000             E1t. Coat s DKI  x 0.268
b  Plonning & Management                                       6,000              Est. Coat s OKI  x 0.266
C. Specialized Skills (sanitation
engr. credit, etc.)                                       6,000              Eat. Cost s KI  x 0.266
d. Computer applications                                       8,000              Eat. Coat iDSKI  x 0.266
Subtotal 8S                                                   298000
C. Orarses Training  banago  nt
Proram, devwt upgrading, *tc.                               81,800
Subtotal SC                                                   81l,80
Subtotal Management Training 8 9+SC                           94,000
4. Incentive Allowance                                          159,000
S. Offlee Equipment/Vehicleo                                    188,000
Total Coat for Manao nt Det94 Program
for 2Kel  otabs  toa)                                   C88.00
Total Co"t for Manomt D0.9t Program
for 20 Kel Botabek (Rp,-)                            1,046,640,000



- 91 -                                ami-
-Tble 7
Page 9
Total and Average Non-Phgsical Project Cost for 20 Kelurahan In Botabek
Component                                                Total Cost          S
$            Rp
1. Economic Dev't Program                          989,300  1,760,954,000   43
2. Social Dev't Program                          1,337,000  2,380,216,000   57
Total Prolect Cost for 20 Kelurahan           2.326,300  4,140,814.000  100
(Excluding Management Development)
Average Cost per Kelurahan in Botabek           116,315    207,040,700
(Non-Physical - Excluding Management)
Total Prolect Cost Non-Physical, Botabek)
1. Economic Dev't Program                          989,300  1,760,954,000   34
2. Social Dev't Program                          1,337,000  2,380,216,000   46
3. Management Dev't Program                        588,000  1,046,640,000   20
2,914.300  5,187,810,000  100



- 92 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
IDONESIA
THItD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Priority Solid Waste Management
I. Service Levels, Coverage and Deficiencies
A. Service Levels and Coverage
1.        Garbage collection services are offered by neighborhoods directly
(the RT/RV) and by the city cleansing Department (Dinas Kebersihan).
Neighborhood heads (RTIRW) organizes primary collection vith handcarts to
nearly 70? of the population. Dinas Kebersihan provides secondary collection
from open depots or 6-10 m3 containers with dump trucks or container-roller-
arm trucks. In addition Dinas Kebersihan provides curb-side (Jali-Jali) and
door-to-door collection using compacting vehicles and dump trucks servicing
about 15? of the population in commercial and high-income residential areas.
2.        In principle the waste collection frequency is twice a week, but
some areas with door-to-door or Jali-Jali collection are serviced more often,
while in other areas collection services are quite irregular, particularly in
low-income kampungs where people cannot afford to pay for the service. The
comercial and residential areas in Jakarta Pusat enjoys the best service,
with decreasing service coverage in less densely populated and peripheral
areas.
3.        The estimated waste generation in Jakarta is about 5,000 tonsiday.
About half of this is domestic and 152 each is collected from markets, other
commercial and industrial sources. Even though the collection service
coverage in Jakarta is reportedly very high (85? in Jakarta Pusat), only about
752 of waste generated is collected, and of this about 60X (2,300) tonslday iF
transported for disposal in the four landfill presently in operation (see
Chart 1). As a consequence of the deficient secondary collection and
transportation system, waste is disposed in informal or temporasy dumps, in
the drains, canals, open or vacant land causing serious public health hazards
and pollution outlined in para. 17-18 below. Thus, the lack of a functioning
secondary collection system, represents the most urgent priority.
4.        The availability of disposal sites is one of the most critical
constraints to extended secondary collection services in Jakarta. Three old
landfills at Cakung, Srengseng and Kapuk Kamal are almost full, and will have
to be closed down shortly. This constraint has been removed with the opening
of a new landfill at Bantar Gebang, Bekasi, in August 1989, which has capacity
for over ten years. However, due to the increased transportation distance
(41 km) and costs, less than 1O0 of the collection fleet is using the Bekasi
landfill, and a search for a new landfill in the Tangerang area North-East of
Jakarta Is under way, and sea reclamation is also being considered. It is
unlikely that the Bekasi site has sufficient capacity to handle the traffic
load of the entire collection fleet, estimated to 200-300 vehicles per peak



ANNEX 2
Chart 1
[SOURCE)                               (FLOW)                            (DISPOSAL)
1. Household waste
Non Collection
By Door to door/Jali2
Disposal Site
2. Market waste                            740            Recovered             (Dinas)
1,050 1L.P.S. By Dimias         100
-Temporary     290
290 _>                             640                     50
290                        ~~~~~~~1,040             c_
-P.D.Pasar     52              1 520  230
520                          ~~~~~~~~300
45~    2,310
3. Commercial waste            4S0                                   220       r -
1,170     L
160     (Canal)
860                                               130                      440
_ >        1,990
4. Industrial waste
Self Treatment
180
7B0                                               200 
.   -  , . _  _                     -  -     ->   ~~~~      ~~~68ao~   300
5. Street waste
Solid Waste Flow in DKI Jakarta in 1986
- AMOUNT OF FLOW: 4,930 ton/day
- Scale of each box is in proportion to each amount



- 94 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
hour. Queuing and delays at the landfill must be expected. DRI has two
options to solve this problems finding alternative disposal sites and/or
building transfer stations which will result in fewer and larger vehicles to
the landfill.11
5.        System Performance and Productivity.  In the context of the existing
economic situation in Indonesia with low personnel costs relative to high
equipment costs, the most cost-effective way of operating the existing
collection and disposal systems is by maximizing utilization of equipment, and
extending the service life of equipment by proper maintenance and service.
Presently, both the actual length of daily operation and the economic life of
equipment is relatively low at between four-to-five years. Consequently there
is scope for improving system performance and productivity. Compared to other
capital cities which operate their SWM systems under similar economic
conditions, the number of employees per 10,000 people served and the cost of
collection are reasonably low, but the collection efficiency per vehicle and
per employee is also unduly low, considering that manpower and costs involved
in the primary collection are not included in these figures. Typical data for
the existing system operated by Dinas Kebersihan in Jakarta are:
-    Employment                                  8 staffllO,000 people
-    Cost of collection, exc. depr.              6.75 US$/ton
-    Disposal per vehicle                        2.6 ton/day
-    Collection per employee                     0.3 toniday
B. Management Arrangements
6.        Dinas Kebersihan (City Cleansing Department) is a line organization
within DRI. DKI has authority over financial provisions, land acquisition, and
personnel matters. SWH operations Currently involve approximately 6700 people
in Dinas Kebersihan, or about 1.7 persons/ton of waste collected. Dinas
Kebersihan is responsible for administration, planning, procurement,
information and c munity participation, deplo,ment of workers and equipment,
maintenance and repair, and operation of mechanical equipment. Responsibility
for daily collection, control and supervision of domestic and commercial
wastes are delegated to administrative districts and sub-districts, the Suku
Dinas Kebersihan and Seksi Kecamatan. While the district head (Walikota) is
responsible for personnel control, routine maintenance and service of vehicles
and containers are now delegated to workshops at the district and sub-district
levels.
1/   The JICA SWH Plan envisages a system based primarily on compacting vehic-
les, limited container collection; large compacting transfer stations;
and transport to the landfill in large container trailers. This is a
highly mechanized system, justified by reduced manpower costs, but is at
variance with the objectives of the National Solid Wastes Strategy with
respect to utilizing labor intensive systems, locally manufactured equip-
ment and spare parts, community participation in primary collection and
resource recovery.



- 95 -
ANNEX Z
Page 4
7.        For residential garbage, primary collection with handcarts is
organized and carried out by community organizations at the 'village* level,
by the RTIRWa, without any control or supervision from Dinas Kebersihan.
Market wastes is generally collected by ?.D. Pasar Jaya (the municipal market
agency). The Department of Public Works (Dinas P.U.) is responsible for
cleaning up canals and rivers, while the Parks Department (Dinas Pertamanan)
takes care of parks and gardens. The major industries generilly take care of
their own waste collection and disposal.
8.        The present SWM organization is therefore unduly fragmented,
difficult to coordinate and without adequate provision for consistent
supervision and monitoring. The lack of coordination between primary and
secondary collection is particularly problematic. Control of industrial waste
collection and disposal is minimal and haphazard, particularly with respect to
the handling and the disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes.
C. Service Costs and Financing Arrangements
9.        Responsibility for collecting service tariffs has traditionally been
decentralized to administrative districts headed by a mayor (Wilayah).
Cleansing operations are financed through collection charges (42) and the
general murnicipal budget (961). Collection charges levied on households and
industries serviced by direct collection (door-to-door and Jali-Jali) are paid
to DRI directly, while the city's tax and revenue department (Dispenda)
collects service charges from commercial establishments. DRI channels funds
the operating costs of this service to the various Wilayahs who, in turn,
distribute funds down to the sub-district (Suku Dinas) level to pay for
collection services and street sweeping.
10.       There is also an informal flow of money at the RT/RW level.  The
coemunity organized primary collection is financed from service charges
collected from each household by the RTIRW. However, the exact charge cannot
be established, as the households pay a combined community tax to the RTIRWs
for several services provided, such as security and waste collection. This
tax ranges from Rp 1,000 to 10,000 per month depending on perceived income or
status of the household. A contribution is possibly paid by the RTIRW to the
Suku Dinas for secondary collection services, but the magnitude of this
informal money flow is difficult to determine under present accounting
procedures, though these are being improved.
11.         Two types of service fees are used.  A Special Fee of Rp 5,000 to
10,000 per month for families with door-to-door collection in the high income
areas, and a Basic Fee of Rp 1,000 per month for indirect collection in the
medium-to-low income areas. These fees were increased 100X for PY 1988/89.
12.         While the level of service fees probably is adequate to pay for
the services, if paid uniformly b; those receiving service, the actual fee
collection efficiency is very weak. Fee collection has not been extended to
all areas receiving collection services, and only 120 kelurahans out of 260 in



- 96 -
ANNEX 2
Page S
the DKI's service area have been included In the fee collection system so far.
For 1988189, the revenue target was Rp 1,000 million, including sludge and
night soil collection. Only about Rp 600 million was collected. This
represents only 4Z of the routine budget, and is exactly the same proportion
as in 1985f86.
13.         Accounting and budgeting figures are not sufficiently consolidated
to carry out a detailed cost analyses, and the figures below are indicative
onlyt
Table Is SOLID WASTE SYSTEM FINANCES
1985186     1988/89
RP bill.    Rp bill.
Expendituress
Dinas Eebersihan:
Routine Budget                7.6        14.0
Development Budget            4.8         6.0
Subtotal                     12.4        20.0
Wilaysh                       5.1         6.7
Total                        17.5        26.7
Revenues:
Collection charges            0.4         0.6
DXI allocations              17.1        26.1
Total                        17.5        26.7
14.       Dinas Kebersihan will have collected roughly 1.2 million tons of
waste in 1988189, and with a routine budget of Rp 14 billion the average
operation and maintenance cost of SWM is Rp 12.000/ton (Rp 4,100/m3). The
cost of door-to-door collection with compacting vehicles is estimated to be
40-50Z higher than the primary plus secondary collection with container-
roller-arm trucks.
15.       Cost Analyses of Collection/Transportation Systems  The following
existing collection methods are compareds
-    direct block (Jali-Jali) collection using both compacting
vehicles and trucks;
-    direct door-to-door collection with compacting vehicles;
-    Indirect collection based on primary community organized
collection within each Kelurahan, using handcarts, temporary
storage in 6 - 103 containers, and secondary collection of
containers, using hydraulic roller-arm trucks for
transportation# and



- 97 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
-    Indirect collection with dump trucks, using manual loading at
depots.
(U)  The following waste densities are used for calculation of vehicle
carrying capacities X
Commercial and Industrial                   0.150 tonJm3
Residential and Market                      0.300 tonims
Street                                      0.250 tonlns
In Compacting vehicle                       0.400 ton/m3
In Containers (secondary transport)         0.350 ton/m3
(ii) The transport distance to the new landfill increase from 25 to 41 km. It
is calculated that this will increase the time per trip to the landfill by an
average of 50 minutes, using the fast toll-road. However, the number of trips
per compacting vehicle is reduced from presently 2 per day to 1.8, and for the
roll-arm vehicles from 4 to 3.2 trips per day. 250 working days per year have
been used in the calculations. Dump trucks used by Jali-Jali collection or
secondary collection from depots are assumed to make 3 trips per day.
Addition laborers (2) are needed at the depots for manual loading of the
truck.



- 98 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
Table 2s ANNUAL AND UNIT COSTS OF COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION PER VESICLE/a
Dump     Compactlon   Container   Dump
Trucks   Vehicles     Vehicles    Trucks
Basis for estimatet    Jali-    door-to-door primary/   primary/
Jali       0m          secondarr  secondarv
Capacity per vehicle     '      10m           6-10 m    6 mx
Average load          90S full  85  full     902 full   902
Vehicle downtime      10?        10X          10i        102
Trips per vehicle     3.01day   1.8/day       3.2/day    3.0/day
Capacity per vehicle  4.8 t/d   5.0 t/d       7.2 t/d    4.8 t/d
1200 tlyr 1250 tlyr    1800 t/yr  1200 tlyr
Vehicle crew          driver    driver        driver     driver
2 labor   2 labor      1 labor    4 labor
Costiveh.mill.Rp.     61.3       88.0         58.0        61.3
Cost/cont .mill.Rp.                           4x3.85
Cowstrative Costs  RP.1000Iyr  RU.10001yr   &.1000Iyr  Rp.1000/yr
Primary Collection
by Carts
(1p.SOOIton ref.DlI)                             900        600
Personnel              6380      6340           428      10460
Maintenance            2330       2350         2330       2330
Fuel and running
costs                  2400      2400          2400       2400
Operation equipment     250       20                       250
Toll-road charges      3200      1800          3200       3200
(Rp.4000 per trip)
Sub-total             14450     13140         13110      19240
Admin.,buildings,
training etc.
Assuming 5OX of OM
leos  toll-road charge  5680     5670          4955       8200
Operatin & Mainten.   20130      18810        18065      27440
Depreciation of
vehicles over 7
years                   8760      12600         8300       8760
Depreciation of
containers over 4
years                                           3850
Total annual cost      28890     31410         30215      36200
la   Based on prices, maintenance and operation costs provided by DKI,
running cost of dump trucks based on mission estimates.



- 99 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
Dump     Compaction   Container   Dump
Trucks   Vehicles     Vehicles    Trucks
Basis for estimates    Jali-    door-to-door primary/   primaryl
Jali                   secondarn  secondary
Unit Cost:             ipiton    Rpiton        12/ton     PR,Jton
0 & M only            16775     15048         10036      22867
Depreciation           7300     10000          6750       7300
Total Annual          24075     25048         16786      30167
D. Environmental Issues
16.       The environmental issues associated with incomplete solid waste
collection are; (i) pollution of Jakarta's raw water source, (ii) groundwater
pollution in connection with flooding and seepage of surface water into the
numerous wells, (iii) air pollution from dust and burning rubbish,
(iv) flooding hazards caused by clogging of the primary and secondary drainage
system in particular, but also of the major drainage canals and rivers,
Cv) littering of public areas and water ways, (vi) health hazards and injuries
caused by direct exposure to contaminated garbage, broken glass and metals,
etc, (vii) the spread of diseases by insects, vermin, rodents and birds which
thrive on garbage thrown indiscriminately around, and finally (viii) garbage
littering streets, parks and other open areas is offensive and detrimental to
the general sense of well being.
17.       Leachates from uncontrolled landfills can create severe pollution of
both groundwater and surface water. The three old landfills are operated as
open dumps without any treatment of Leachates. The new landfill at Bekasi is
designed as a controlled landfill.
18.        Scavengers--children and others who roam around in garbage disposed
in public areas, open bins along the roads, informal dumps, at the landfills
etc, are at a special risk, as well as garbage collectors and workers who
handle 8arbage manually. Studies 2J indicate that there are around 8.000
scavengers, earning only about Rp 10 million per day, make a living out of
salvaging 2 to 4Z (100-150 ton/day) of the total waste stream. The quantity
of waste recovered could probably be increased substantially, and at a higher
first- hand value, if the waste were sorted out at the source (household) and
cottage industries developed for intermediate processing (cleaning, grinding,
smelting, etc.)
21   'Priority SWM Component Studies", November, 1989, Pt. Askonin Engineering
Managgals Pratama.



- 100 -
AMNEX 2
Page 9
S. Sector PlanninA and Policies for Long-Term Service Development
19.       The principal constraints and priorities are summarized ass
(a) Available land for disposal is a constraint to expansion of solid
waste services. At present, four disposal sites are in operation,
including the newly opened landfill at Bekasi. The other three
landfills have very limited capacity. The need for additional
disposal capacity is seen as a top priority. Efforts have been made
to locate a suitable site in the Tangerang area, North-West of
Jakarta, and in the opposite 'corner' to Bekasi. Consideration is
also being given to a sea reclamation scheme in Marunda, North
Jakarta, using garbage as fill material. Incineration and
composting are also mentioned as possible measures to reduce the
need for land disposal area.
(b) The transportation system has limited capacity, and will be further
taxed as the Bekasi landfill will increase the average
transportation distance by about 15 km (from 25 to 41 km). This
problem is proposed to be tackled in two ways, (i) provide more
collection vehicles, and (ii) establish a transfer station at
Sunter, including an appropriate transportation system (semi-trailer
trucks with large containers). GOI has been offered a financing
package by OECF, including a grant for construction of a pilot
transfer station.
(c) Regular primary and secondary collection service is now proiided to
120 kelurahans out of 260 within DRI, which plans to expand service
to an 30 additional kelurahans each year until 1992193, when service
will be extended to 230 kelurahans.
(d) DKI intends to increase gradually the involvement of the private
sector, particularly in secondary collection. Collection services
in 8 kelurahans will be contracted out in 1989190, bringing the
total to 17 kelurahans serviced by private contractors.
(e) DRI sees a need to improve its operational management system,
particularly data collection and information, and to increase its
revenues through a more efficient service fee collection system. A
Revenue Improvement Action Plan (RIAP) is now under preparation
which would target the SWK tariff specifically.
(f) Laws and regulations need to be enforced more effectively if
environmental conditions are to be improved.
(g) DKI aims to collect 90Z of the municipal garbage, and intends to
launch a motivation campaign to activate the participation of the
private as well as the public sectors in keeping the city clean.



- 101 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10
20.       DKI is in the process of formulating policLes and a long-term
strategy and institutional development plan for Dinas Kebersihan. The Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) carried out a comprehensive SWM study
in 1987, 4/ and this appears to provide guidance and ideas for DK$'s policies.
The National SWM Strategy 51 prepared in 1989 also provides sector policies on
which DKI is forming its development plans, as a component of DRI's Regional
Government Policy, 61 1989.
21.       The time frame for implementation of these policies is not defined,
but it is assumed to coincide with Repelita V. Detailed institutional and
financial action plans for implementation of the above policies have yet to be
formulated.
II. Proiect Objectives and Description
22.       Against this background, the objectives for the Priority Solid Waste
component ares
(a) to provide a collection, transportation and disposal service on a
regular basis, which is appropriate and affordable to the low-and-
medium income groups in the project areas, and in other kelurahans
where solid waste collection services are introduced to prevent
recurrence of illegal dumping along or into the canals and rivers;
(b) to improve the environmental conditions along the major canals and
rivers, particularly to prevent pollution and littering of the West
Tarum Canal and the Banjir Canal, and to reduce risks of flooding
from garbage accumulating in drains, canals and rivers, by removing
informal garbage dumps along these waterways;
(c) to promote resources recovery as a means of reducing the detrimental
environmental impacts from solid waste disposal, and to reduce the
economic cost of poor SWH services; and
(d) to promote private sector involvement in the provision of SWU
services as a means of enhancing service coverage, and improving
system performance.
41   'Study on Solid Waste Management System Improvement Project in the City
of Jakarta in Indonesia', Final Report, November 1987, Japan
International Cooperation Agency.
5/   'National Solid Waste Management Strategy", Ministry of Public Works,
Directorate General of Human Settlements, Directorate of Environmental
Sanitation, PT. Bumi Parasidi in association with Beture Setame and Trans
Asia-URS International, March 1989.
6/   'Regional Government Policy in Coping with City Cleanliness". DRI
Jakarta. Cleansing Department, Auggst 1989.



- 102 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11
23.       Investments under the component are described below and detailed in
tables 3 to 5s
(i}   Collection (US$8.1 million)
24.       Provision of primary collection using handcarts in the 75 kelurahans
under the RIP-MHS III Project is described in Annex 1t Kampung Imtrovement
Program. Under the Priority Solid Waste component, the project will finance
Containers and container-sites and vehicles for secondary collection from
kampungs in the same 75 kelurahans targeted by the RIP.
25.       A comparative cost analysis of the various systems in use today
indicates that the indirect waste collection system, using handcarts for
primary collction to large containers and secondary collection of containers
by roller-arm trucks, is cheaper at Rp 17,000 per ton. Primary collection
with handcart and secondary collection with dump trucks, based on manual
loading at the depots, is by far the most expensive system, Rp 30,000 per ton.
The door-to-door system using compacting trucks, and the curb-side (Jali-Jali)
system both cost about Rp 25,000, which is about 502 higher than the
container-roller-arm truck system. The reason for the high cost of compacting
vehicles is primarily the low volume reduction obtained with the high density
wastes found in Jakarta. A compaction rate of more than ls2 from loose to
compacted waste must be achieved to make compacting vehicles economical.
Therefore, compacting vehicles are considered suitable only for collection of
low density wastes from commercial districts. As private contractors have
excess capacity of dump trucks, they could possibly opt to operate without
charging full depreciation costs, and thus offer collection services at
competitive rates under certain market conditions. However, the operation and
maintenance costs alone are comparable with the total cost of container-
roller-am truck.
Mi)   Cleaning up Informal Dumps (US$0.7 million)
26.       DKI has prepared, with consultant assistance, 7/ an action plan for
removing informal dumps along the rivers and canals, and any informal dumps
within the KIP project areas. This does not include the cost of removing
illegal squatter settlements along the canals, or restoring the original canal
alignments. The latter is being addressed under the Priority Flood Control
Component under the proposed Jabotabek Water and sanitation Project. The
action plan will be carried out in coordination with several government
agencies, such as the municipal social (Dinas Sosial) and housing (Dinas
Perumahan) departments, the eavironmental bureau (BKLH) and the planning staff
(Bappeda) in DRI. Regular collection service will be introduced in the
relevant kelurahans along the rivers and canals to avoid recurrence of illegal
7/   OPriority Solid Waate Management Component Studies", Consultant's
reports, November 1989, Pt. Arkonin Engineerins Managgala Pratama.



- 103 -
ANKIX 2
Page 12
dumping. The plan Identifies the following 10 kelurahane for urgent
attention*
Pasar Manggis,  Jakarta Selatan
Guntur,          Jakarta Selatan
Karet Tengsin,   Jakarta Pusat
Kebon Helati,    Jakarta Pusat
Petamburan,      Jakarta Pusat, (inel. in KIP-MHT II1)
Slipi,           Jakarta Barat
Rota Bambu,      Jakarta Barat
Tomang,          Jakarta Barat
Grogol,          Jakarta Barat
Jati Pulo,       Jakarta Barat, (incl. in RIP-MHT III)
(iv) Closing Down Existins Landfills (US$1.5 million)
27.       The three old landfills are operated as open dumps with no leachate
control.  When closing down these sites, the fill areas should be given a
final cover to prevent landfill gasses from escaping, reduce Infiltration of
rainwater, reduce wind and water erosion, and to provide a layer of topsoil
for new vegetation. DKI has estimated that approximately 25.000 3 of garbage
will have to be removed, the ground landscaped, and new cover material applied
to provide a basis for grass and plants. The estimated cost for this operation
is Rp 1,150 million.
28.       Facilities at the Bekasi landfill such as weighing station, guard
house, fueling facilities, and workshop and fences have yet to be constructed.
However, DKI has awarded a contract for the necessary works to upgrade the
Bekasi disposal site to controlled landfill standards, including a through-
road, which will increase the vehicle handling capacity, weighbridge station
and other facilities. Consequently no investments for these activities are
necessary under the present loan agreement.
(v) Resources Recovery Pilot ProJect (US$0.2 million).
29.       Resources recovery from waste material can take two forms, either
salvaging of recyclable or reusable materials, or as raw material for
production of energy, gas or compost. The benefits which accrue from
resources recovery ares (i) foregone cost of transportation and disposal; (ii)
foregone cost of treatment of landfill leachates; (ili) net value of salvaged
material and/or new products; and, (iv) new employment opportunities. Studies S/
indicate that the salvaging business is organized into scavengers at the lower
end of this informal sector, selling to the LAPAK, which either sells the
material in larger quantities directly to factories, or distributes further to
agents and suppliers. Scavengers are in a disadvantaged position, having
8t   PT. Arkonin Engineering Mauggala Pratama; *Resources Recovery and
Institutional Development Pilot ProjectV, November 1989.



- 104 -
ANNEX 2
Page 13
scarce resources, dealing with small quantities and lacking supporting
organization. Yet, the first-hand value of the salvaged material is estimated
at about Rp 4,000 millionlyear. The potential value for organized salvaging
at the household level is several times higher, based on estimated quantities
of salvageable materials and current prices for recyclable materials.
30.       Approximately 8,000 scavengers are involved in the salvaging
business in Jakarta today. The scavengers pick through discarded waste at the
collection bins, transfer stations, informal dumps and at the landfills, and
make a meager living at considerable social costs. Uncontrolled scavenging is
generally very unhealthy, and studies have shown that the infant and child
mortality and morbidity rates are extremely high among scavengers. Because
scavengers have a tendency to scatter the waste around, and often are a
nuisance to the waste collectors, they are scorned by the public and officials
alike. However, if salvaging were to be carried out in a controlled manner
these negative impacts could be minimized, or eliminated, and the amounts of
salvaged materials increased several times over the present level, providing
employment opportunities to more people. The proposed resources recovery
pilot project recognizes this potential.
31.       This pilot project aims at introducing sorting of residential waste
at the household level. It proposes an awareness campaign, mobilization of
women, establishing a model collection system and a marketing organization,
training of scavengers, and assistance to small-scale industries using the
salvaged material as raw material for their products. The project covers
approximately 20,000 households in the medium-income bracket, is estimated to
take 4 years at a cost of roughly Rp 2 billion. The project will bring
economic benefits (from sale of salvaged material) exceeding the project cost,
and it will provide employment for 4 to 6 times the number of people presently
employed in collection and disposal of material to be salvaged. This project
component will be planned and implemented in close collaboration with the KIP
component.
32.       In addition, DXI could stimulate the resources recovery at the
disposal site by contracting out to a private contractor the operation of the
landfill. With the right incentives built into the contract, the contractor
would be encouraged to minimize waste landfilling by salvaging and/or
converting waste into other saleable products, e.g. gas or compost. The market
value of compost increases with the quality of the compost and its fertilizer
(nitrogen/phosphorous) content. Both production and marketing costs are
economy of scale dependent. Composting is normally carried out at the disposal
site or in a separate plant. The market for compost within the vicinity of
Jakarta is roughly estimated at 200 tons/day by JICA. The estimated demand for
compost plus necessary cover material at the disposal site could be met by
composting market wastes alone. The decentralized composting pilot project
carried out An Jakarta by Dinas Kebersihan in coordination with the Institute
of Bandung is a very interesting concept, but not likely to succeed, because a
suitable marketing system for such small scale production is not set up, and
production quality control and assurance are missing.



DOONESIA
nR  JA3OTABEK URa  DEELENB4T PROJECT
tRDP III
Table 101. SECUIDARY COLLECTION
Det led Cost Table
Rp
Quantity                              Unit Cost
89/90 90/91 91/92 92/98 98/94 94/9C 95/98 Toal       99-98   98/94   94-96
I. DVESTDI COSTS
A. SOLD WASTE N4AL.FOR K>+
Rolle-Am Trucsc  (Off 8)    0   10   20   20   25    0    0   75    09101.7 69101.7 09101.7
Costin"e (10 .m)             0   sO  100  100  125    0    0  876           474.7  474.7  4774.7
Containr  ites               0   40   80   90  100    0    0   S0          1269.0  119.0  11989.0
S. SOLD WASTE FOR MAJ.DRAIN
Rollor-arm trum*s(Draln)     0    0    8    0    0    0    0    8    69101.7  9101.?  9101.7
Containers (10 a8)           0    0   40    0    0    0    0   40           4774.7  4774.7  4774.7
ContaIner siteo              0    0   82    0    0    0    0   32    11"9.0  11089.0  11"9.0
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                -        -                                    in
Unit Cost Scalied by 1000.0 1/2/1980 8350
9,



DONESIA
THMD JASOTABEIC tASAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUDP III
Table 201. SECONARY COLLCTIO
DeUtaied Cost Table
Rp
ease Costs
69/90    90/91   91/92    92/98    98/04   94/9U   96/08   iotalI
1. INVESTmENT COSTS
A. S0Li WASTE HWJL.FUR KIP+
Rotler-Arm Tracks (Eif 8)     0.0   091.0  18M20  1802.0  1727.5          0.0      0.0  5182.6
Containers (10 m3)            0.0   286.7   477.5   477.5   596.8         0.0      0.0  1700.5
Contalner $it1s               0.0   406.6   088.5   98.6  1160.9          0.0      0.0  350. 7
Sub-TotalI                     0.0  1806.6  2798.0  2793.0  8491.8         0.0      0.0  10478.8
S. SOILID MMST FOR VAJ.DRAIN
Rol lo-srm trucks(Orain)      0.0      0.0   552.*       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   552.0
Containers (10 a8)            0.0      0.0   191.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   191.0
Cootainer sites               0.0      0.0   878.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   878.4
Sub-Total                      0.0      0.0  1117.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1117.2
C. TEONICAL ASSISANCE              0.0    74.6    74.6       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   149.1
Total 1iNVSTmENT COSTS                0.0  1471.1  8064W.8  2798.0  8491.8        0.0      0.0  11740.1
TOte I                             0.0  1471.1  808.$  2798.0  8491.8          0.0      0.0  11740.1
- Valo uesaled by 100000.0  1/2/1060 8:50



THM  JABOTADEK URA DEVELOPMENT PROCT
.AW III
Table 102. CLEANING W OF INFORMAL S1W   TES, AND Rr  SYSIEM
Detailed Cost Table
Rp
4Qantity     UnIt Cost                            Bae  Cm"
89-6  otoalI    89-0       89/90  90/91  91/92  92/r90/04  94/95  9r/9; Tt ITo
I. INESTMENT COm
A. CLEANIN-W  DUW SITES         -    -          -         0.0    0.0  843.4  402.1    0.0    0.0    0.0 1045.5
1. CLOSIN  DOWN LANDFLLS        -    -          -         0.0    0.0  064.6  1152.9    0.0    0.0    0.0 2017.5
Total I1VESlTENT COSTS                                      0.0    0.0  1606.0 15.        0.      0.0    0.0  8063.0
=         =      ==Ic~~~j;m,j,=     ~  =             =
Total                                                     0.0    0.0 1508.0 1656.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  SC8.0
Unit Cost Scaled by 1000.0 - Value scaled by 1000000.0  1/2/1980 8s:1
I-
1Q



THRD JABOTANKI Ul DEVELF  POECT
AJUD III
Table 103. RESOURCES RECOVERY PRECT
Dtetaled Coat Table
Rp
Quntity     Unit Cost                         ease Cost.
89-1# Total     89-96    89/90 90/11 91/92 92/03 98/94 94/95 96/9S Total
I. I1VEST111T COSTS
A. RESOURES RECOVERY PROJ.
Study *nd Evalatlo        -    -                   0.0  48.7  29.2  29.2  11.7   0.0   0.0 116.7
WIa   tlon               -    -           -       0.0   0.0  82.8  82.8   0.0   0.0   0.0 165.7
Sub-Totel                                          0.0  46.7  112.0 112.0  11.7   0.0   0.0 282.4
Total DIESTMEIT COSTS                                     0.0  46.7 112.0 112.0  11.7   0.0   0.0 282.4
C = _m _        _
Total                                                  0.0  46.7  112.0 112.0  11.7   0.0   0.0 282.4
Unit Coas Scaled by 1C00.0 - Valis scaed by 1000000.0 1/2/1980 8:51
co
0
0



- 109 -
ANNEX 2
Page 17
III. Implementation Arrangements
A. Overall Project Management:
33.       Dinas Kebersihan vill be responsible for mknaging and coordinating
the component and will establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for
execution of the works. As the project has clear links to the KIP, pollution
control and environmental monitoring, and the regional development planning
component, as well as to some of the proposed Jabotabek Water and Sanitation
Project components, overall coordination required will be undertaken by JUPCO
and its division for the project. The component must be closely coordinated
betveen DKI, Dinas Kebersihan and the RTIRWs in order to improve service
efficiency, establish uniform service standards, and to organize and control
collection of service fees. DXI will, therefore, issue ordinances and
standard agreements for a formal cooperation between the RTIRVs and Dinas
Kebersihan, including service fee arrangements, and model contracts for
contracting out primary collection.
34.       For this project, attention is mostly on collection and
transportation which is now primarily carried out by Dinas Kebersihan.
Problems which have been identified in the municipal service include; (i)
insufficient personnel supervision, (ii) inefficient maintenance of vehicles,
and (iii) low equipment utilization. Greater involvement of private operators
would address these problems, a fact which already has been recognized by DKI.
35.       The functions, organizational structure, qualification and number of
staff of Dinas Kebersihan will change gradually with increased private sector
involvement. The role of Dinas Kebersihan will change from its present
technical planning, administrative and operational functions, to that of
financial management and planning; regulating, controlling, and supervising
the private sector operations; monitoring and evaluation of service
performance and environmental impacts.
B. Private Sector Participation:
36.       Jakarta already has extensive non-government participation in SWM.
Primary collection in most of the city is done by community-based
organizations and any resource recovery is done by the informal sector. In
1988, waste door-to-door co'lection, street sweeping and transportation in
nine city-center kelurahans and the Monas Square were contracted out to five
private companies. The program will be extended to 27 kelurahans during the
1989190 fiscal year in order to: increase the SWM service provided by DRI; to
improve the efficiency and quality of cleansing operations in the protocol
areas; and to reduce investments and operation and maintenance costs for Dinas
Kebersihan.
37.       Private contractors have indeed managed to improve the quality of
the service in the protocol areas. Supervision and control of personnel and
equipment seem to be better, but the service cost appears to be higher than



- 110 -
ANNEX 2
Page 18
for the Dinas Kebersihan's own average collection cost. According to the
Privatization Evaluation Report prepared by Dinas Kebersihan, the average
operation and maintenance cost for private contractors is Rp 4,800/m:3 or about
Rp 14,000/ton, while Diaas Kebersihan, average cost is estimated at
Rp 4,100l.  It thus appears that the private contractors are about 202 more
expensive. However, firm conclusions cannot be drawn. It is unclear if DKI's
operations are fully costed. Moreover, the conditions for the service are not
the same. The protocol areas enjoy a much higher standard of service than is
required for the rest of the city, and there is much more street sweeping,
than in the areas generally serviced with secondary collection provided by
Dinas Kebersihan.
38.       Hitherto, contracting has been done by direct appointment following
a review of tenders from selected companies. The agreed contract price is the
contractor's estimate plus ten percent for a margin. It can be assumed that
Dinas Kebersihan's cost of operation is known, and that this in effect becomes
the contractors' base price. The contract period is one year, with the tacit
understanding that contracts can be extended depending upon evaluation of the
contractor's performance. Allowing for a lack of comparability between
private and public services delivered, and considering the contract
conditions, it seems unlikely that the efficiency benefits of private sector
involvement are being captured fully by the present approach to contracting
out.
39.       The experience gained to date in utilizing the private sector will
enable DKI to change from the direct appointment to a competitive bidding
method based on clearly defined tasks, service standards, performance
criteria, financial and legal obligations which are now being developed. Task
definition should include contract area, services to be performed, waste types
and quantities to be collected, and disposed. Performance standards will
include collection methods, frequency and time of collection, cleanliness in
the contract area and along the transportation routes, level and reliability
of service.
40.       The contract period is crucial for the willingness of the contractor
to commit his own resources. Neither a too-short nor a too-long contract
period is likely to result in the most economical contract for DKI. In the
first instance, the contractor will not view the business as a long-term
perspective, but try to realize short term profits without investing in more
efficient equipment, personnel or organization. On the other hand, a too long
contract period is liable to negotiated revisions during the contract period,
and experience shows that the contractor is a better negotiator than the
regulator (government), and thus able to increase the service costs to the
goverrment. A contract period of 3 to 5 years would be appropriate as is used
in other countries.
41.       Payments for service rendered would be based on a fixed sum plus a
unit charge for waste quantities collected and disposed at the landfill. The
quantities of household and commercial wastes to be collected within a service
area can be fairly accurately estimated, and a contract price established.



- 111 -
ANNEX 2
Page 19
However, in order to be able to monitor and control the collection, payment
would be made according to quantities brought to the landfill. This will
require weighing and recording of each vehicle load received at the landfill,
and regular inspection and monitoring by DKI of the contractors operations in
the collection area, to ensure that the agreed level of service and
cleanliness standards are maintained.
42.       Choice of transportation equipment is not only an economic question,
but also one of appropriate technology. A containerized system has
environmental advantages. Disposal in containers at the transfer stations,
and loading of containers on the trucks are done without manual handling, and
the waste is totally enclosed at all times. Transportation in open trucks is
normally based on temporary storage in open depots, with manual loading of
dump trucks. This is unpleasant work and unsafe. The depots cannot be kept
as clean as container stations. and there is a problem with garbage falling
off open trucks during transport. For these reasons a containerized system is
proposed as environmentally more acceptable.
43.       Specialized transportation equipment, e.g. roller-arm-trucks for
container transport, container lift-dumpers etc., are not generally used by
contractors in Indonesia--though this type of equipment is also suitable for
purposes other than the transportation of solid waste. A contract specifying
a containerized transportation system would require the contractor to invest
in new equipment, and in order to make this attractive to the contractor,
thereby reducing the contract price and service cost to the public, the
contract period should be close to the economic life of the equipment. Trucks
should normally have an economic life of seven-to-eight years. However, with
two or three shift operations, vehicles must be depreciated over a shorter
period. A four-to-five year contract period seems appropriate in this case.
44.       Lack of funds for new equipment could limit the number of
contractors willing to bid. DKI will, therefore, purchase the equipment and
lease it to qualifying contractors for the contract period. A monthly lease
charge would be fixed per vehicle, and the contractor would decide how many
vehicles he would need to carry out the specified tasks. This would stimulate
the maximum vehicle utilization and efficient operation. The lack of adequate
maintenance and repair of vehicles in Dinas Kebersihan presently results in
high down-time rates and short average vehicle life. To realize a longer
effective life for this kind of equipment than at present in DRI, contractors
would be entitled to assume ownership of vehicles after the five year lease
period--thereby providing an important incentive to ensure adequate
maintenance, for which they would be responsible under the terms of the lease.
45.       Landfill Operations.  Operation of the disposal site, including the
rights to use the waste as raw material for resources recovery, is another
area where consideration is being given by DKI to private sector
participation. DKI would pay the contractor for all landfill operations
(controlled landfill standards), including all environmental measures. The
method of payment would be on the basis of quantity of waste accepted to the
landfill. This would give the contractor an incentive to reduce operating



- 112 -
ANNEX 2
Page 20
costs by minimizing the waste to be disposed in the landfill by salvaging,
composting or any other resources recovery method. The benefit to DXI would
be longer useful life of the landfill and additional employment opportunities.
C. Implementation Schedule
46.       Primary collection and expansion of the secondary collection will be
synchronized closely with the KIP. Vehicles and equipment will be procured
starting in the first year following Loan effectiveness. Cleaning up informal
dumps and drainage canals, as well as introduction of organized refuse
collection services will start in the second year only. The necessary work to
close down the three existing landfills would be implemented during the two
first years of the project. The resources recovery pilot project has a 4 year
duration. Investigations and preparations will take place the first year; the
awareness campaign, assistance to small-scale industries (cottage industry),
and setting up the collection system, will take place during the second year;
implementation and evaluation period during the two following years.
D. Proiect Monitorina and Supervision
47.       Implementation of the refuse collection services and cleaning up of
the informal dumps must be closely coordinated with implementation of other
infrastructure improvements in the 75 kelurahans in the KIPIMNHT III area.
Monitoring and supervision will follow the activities in the Action and
Implementation Plan outlined below. Delivery of equipment and completion of
civil works will be supervised by DRI. The performance of the private waste
collection and transportation contractors, as well as the Bekasi Landfill
management contract, will be continuously supervised, periodically evaluated
by DRI, and assessed annually by the Bank during the project implementation
reviews.
48.       There are risks of collusion between the contractors operating the
secondary collection system as well as the contractors managing the landfill
to overstate the quantities of garbage collected and disposed. DRI's role
would, therefore, be to supervise and monitor the operations, and to operate
the weighbridge and recording station to monitor the waste quantities brought
to the landfill.
S. Procurement Arrangements
49.       All civil works will be contracted on local competitive bidding
(LCB) basis, including construction of container sites with loading ramps,
cleaning up the illegal dumps, improvement works at the Bekasi landfill and
closing down work at the existing dumps. Roller-arm trucks, although partly
assembled and equipped with chassis in Indonesia, will have to be imported.
Supply of trucks and containers will be based on international competitive
bidding (ICB).  Tender documents and contracts for delivery of vehicles,
equipment and civil works will be reviewed by the World Bank prior to
tendering and award of contract.



- 113 -
ANNEX 2
Page 21
F. Environmental Impacts
50.       Landfills can give serious environmental problems, mainly due to
pollution of surface and groundwater from the landfill leachates, but also
from air pollution from burning waste, littering, and problems in connection
with insects, rodents, and bird feeding on the waste.
51.       The new disposal site at Bekasi is intended to be operated as a
controlled landfill, and the design plans include measures for groundwater and
surface water pollution control (leachate collection and treatment),
groundwater pollution monitoring and gas detection, as well as necessary
service facilities.
52.       The site is in an area with substantial alluvial deposits of clay,
sand and gravel, with poorly productive aquifers, and low-to-very low
penneability. The sparsely populated agricultural area in the vicinity of the
landfill relies on groundwater supply. However, the risk for significant
groundwater pollution is small, due to the slow water flow, long retention
time and adsorptive capacity of the soil to retain pollutants, provided the
landfill is constructed and operated according to existing plans. Surface
water pollution of the Kali Ciketing river, which runs past the landfill site,
is a potential risk, unless the landfill leachates are collected, treated or
recycled prior to disposal. An environmental impact assessment (EIA) study is
being prepared for this site following GOI procedures acceptable to the Bank
(see ANNE 6).



-114 -            ANNEX 2
Page 22
?able 3: MITIGATING MEASURES AGAINST ADVERSE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
-------_---------_------ ____________ ____________________________
ACTIVITY                 IMPACT                   MITIGATION
----------------------------_-------------------------------__---------
WILD DUKst NG  Insects, rodents, birds, animals,  Stop illegal dumping
INFORMAL DUMPS feeding on the garbage are potentialRemove informal dump
DEPOTS        disease vectors.                  Use containers at
Scavengers picking through waste,  transfer stations
children playing and others in    and depots.
direct contact with contaminated
waste and physical hazards
from broken glass, metal, etc.
Garbage entering drains, canals
and rives cause surface water
pollution.
Dissolved pollutants and
contaminants infiltrate to
groundwater.
Open burning of waste pollutes
the air.
Exposed garbage obnoxious, eyesore.
---------------------------------------------------------__------------
COLL. BINS AND Garbage exposed to insects, animals,Collection in
CONTAINERS    scavengers and others.            enclosed containers,
Bins overflow with garbage        bins or bags
and pollutes drains, spoil the    Separation of
surroundings.                     recoverable wastes
Waste burning in bins cause       at household.
smoke, smell and pollution
,________________.,_____________________________________________________
MAN. HANDLING Workers directly exposed to       Waste enclosed in
AT COLLECTION, contaminated waste and hazards   containers or bags
TRANSFER ST., from broken glass, metals, etc.    at collection point,
LOADING TRUCKS Scavenging from handcarts and    transfer system w/o
transfer points a health risk.   manual handling, e.i
tipping or mechan.
------------------------------------------------------------------__---
TRANSPORTATION Waste falling or flying off      Covered or enclosed
the vehicle during transport.     comp. (container).
Noise, exhaust pollution,        Transfer stations.
traffic congestion, excessive
road load.
…______-______________________________________________________________
LANDFILL      Waste exposed to insects, birds,   Controlled or
DISPOSAL      animals and scavengers.           sanitary landfill
Loose garbage scattered around the operations.
in the surroundings.             Controlled resources
Leachates pollute                 recovery operations
surface and groundwater.
Air pollution from burning waste.
Smell from decomposing and burning
waste.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
- 115 -
INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Component
Environmental conditions in Jabotabek
1.        Rapid urban growth and associated industrialization in the Jabotabek
area is placing increasing stress on the natural resources of the region,
resulting in severe degradation of ground, surface and costal waters, air
pollution and contamination of soils with hazardous wastes and chemicals. This
effects of the health of its residents. About 40? of the population still
depend on groundwater and this source is deteriorating rapidly. As the region
expands, and in the absence of pollution control, safe water must be brought
from more distant sources, and the costs of transmission and treatment are
high. Shrimp cultivation and costal fishing are important employment and food
sources which are threatened, especially by industrial pollution. Incidence of
infant mortality and of gastro-enteritic, pulmonary and viral diseases caused
by polluted r-A congested conditions are high, especially among the poor and
those living    the northern, flood-prone areas of the city.  These areas also
impose higher infrastructure development and maintenance costs. Finally, in
the absence of pollution control and enforcement, industries continue to use
inefficient control and outdated technologies with wasteful consumption of raw
materials, rendering them less competitive in international markets as well as
imposing health and economic costs on others.
Government Initiatives and Institutions
2.        The central and provincial governments are aware of these problems
but their severity and their impact on the economy is not yet fully recog-
nized. DRI and GOI have, from the mid 19709, invested substantially in
Kampung improvement and flood control. More recently, under JSSP, this
project and the proposed Jabotabek Water and Sanitation Project and OECF-
funded projects, additional investments will be made in sanitation and water
supply and distribution and in solid waste management. A start has been made
on improving the efficiency of urban growth through the guidance of the
Jabotabek metropolitan development plan (JMDP) and the subsequent Jakarta
Master Plan. While JMDP took environmental conditions into account to some
extent in the development of its spatial strategy, it still lacks the mecha-
nism to translate this strategy into multi-year sectoral investment programs
It requires strengthening on the side of natural resource monitoring and
analysis and a resulting policy on pollution control must be formulated. It
also requires computerization to allow easy up-dating and manipulation of data
for purposes of policy analysis.
3.        With regard to water and air pollution, DKI established a capable
pollution monitoring agency (P4L) which has developed a partial inventory of
pollution sources, regularly analyses samples and has undertaken some studies
of impact analysis. At present, however, it is not authorized to undertake
enforcement, although cases of hazardous pollution are referred to the
Governor for his action. In West Java, the Provincial Government relies on



ANNEX 3
- 116 -                         Page 2
several water analysis laboratories reporting to the Department of Public
Works. These laboratories test and monitor water quality, but do not have
control or enforcement powers over polluters.
4.        At present, powers to undertake and review Environmental Impact
Assessments (the Amdal process), and to set and enforce compliance to legal
standards of waste discharges are lodged with the developmeAt sector
Ministries for both public and private sector proponents whose sectoral
projects fall under the relevant Ministry. Whilst there may be advantages to
retaining the review power for Amdal under the relevant Ministries, the moni-
toring, development of strategy, and enforcement over discharge of wastes is
both difficult for individual Ministries to carry out, and is generally not
being undertaken by them. For example, the Ministry of Publfc Works (MPW) is
responsible for monitoring water quality, but has no control over industrial
discharges into the rivers - standards for which are prescribed by the
Ministry of Industry (MO0). Local governments are required to monitor the
environmental aspects of their own projects and those implemented by central
government agencies and handed over to them for operation and maintenance.
Provincial Governors also have authority to decree water quality standards
within their jurisdiction. The central government has recognized the problems
outlined above, and is presently developing policies and institutional
arrangements to consolidate power on pollution control into a single Authority
(Bappedal) with similar units at the provincial level to implement local
strategies and enforcement. A draft Presidential Decree to establish the
Authority has been prepared by KLH and is presently under discussion within
GOI. Several provincial governments have also recognized the difficulty of
the present arrangements for effective pollution control. They are, at the
request of KLH, submitting suggestions on the form and functions needed for a
provincial-level pollution control agency.
5.        The reasons for focussing on this topic through the project are:
(a) The economic costs and public health impacts. There is rising con-
cern in GOI, the provincial governments and the public over the
degradation and pollution of natural resources (water, land, air)
leading to increasing morbidity and mortality rates, degradation in
living conditions, rising costs to the productive sectors
(especially industry, aqua and agriculture) and increasing costs of
supplying public services (especially water supply and drainage).
(b) Severe impacts on the poor. The health and social imacts of uncon-
trolled industrial, municipa8 and human wastes fall most heavily on
the poor. Pollution control measures thus directly help to improve
the living conditions of the urban poor, and complement the RIP
investments in public infrastructure.
(c) The need for special attention to Jabotabek. The Jabotabek region
contains by far the highest concentration of industry and urban
population in the country and also has the most severe problems of
pollution. Priority attention to this region will therefore yield
the greatest impact in terms of health improvement and economic
efficiency.



- 117 -                         PAge 3
Issues
s.        Effective environmental management at the metropolitan level
tequires three principal elements:
(a)  A strategy to guide public and private sector decisions in i) land
use; ii) water resources management (quantity and quality of sur-
face, ground, coastal water) and iii) control over pollution of
water, air and land. The environmental strategy should be closely
linked and integrated with the metropolitan development strategy.
In Jabotabek, various parts of an environmental strategy are under-
way or proposed (see below). However, important elements are still
missing (e.g. a pollution reduction strategy), and when further work
has been completed on the key aspects, they need to be drawn
together to form a coherent environmental strategy.
(b)  Tools to implement the strategy include national ani regional stan-
dards, regulations and enforcement powers, economic and fiscal
measures, public awareness and community participation. An impor-
tant tool is the environmental impact assessment (Amdal) process for
Individual projects. Amdal is now being established in Indonesia.
It will become much more effective however, when the action plan for
individual projects (RRL) can be related to a strategy, and can be
enforced through effective pollution monitoring, incentive and
enforcement measures.
National standards and regulations are fairly well-developed in
Indonesia but are often unrealistic and their application to speci-
fic regions needs to be realized through a regional strategy.
Economic and fiscal measures have received little attention to date,
but are potentially very important and effective.
(c) Monitoring and enforcement. Actual implementation of sound environ-
mental planning and piojects and proper operation of industrial and
municipal waste generating activities requires an effective monitor-
ing and enforcement capability. Monitoring of ambient water quality
is undertaken in Jabotabek by The Institute of Hydraulic Engineering
(IHE) and P4L and other laboratories and requires further
strengthening. The monitoring of liquid and gaseous emissions is
very limited. For example P4L, the most active waste analysis labo-
ratory is only able to regularly monitor emissions from 180 out of
4.000 polluting industries in the DRI. As noted above, the powers
for enforcement, presently fragmented among several ministries are
now under review, and it is expected that a new Authority will be
establlshed shortly. While the Authority will set national policy,
the form of the implementing agency at the Provincial level may
vary. Under the project, the institutional options and management
arrangements for the provincial agencies in DXI and West Java would
be studied and the agreed alternative developed in detail.



ANNEX 3
- 118 -                       Page 4
Key Areas for Action and Relationship with Other Activities
7.        The government has, and is planning to invest further in Jabotabek
in public infrastructure to improve environmental living conditions (water
supply, human sanitation, municipal waste management). It prepared a strate-
gic development plan (JMDP) which took some environmental factors into account
and which has guided the preparation of the DKI master plan and has influ-
enced the location and scope of some sectoral infrastructure investments.
Under the project, the JMDP will be updated and a special effort will be made
to incorporate inputs from other studies on water resource management, pollu-
tion control and land capability into the land use and land management propo-
sals. This will then cover the land use aspects of environmental management.
A parallel monitoring and mapping activity under JMDP will also monitor land
use changes. Under the proposed Jabotabek Water and Sanitation Project, a
water resources study and a groundwater study will review water quantity and
quality Issues gathered from numerous earlier studies. This study will cover
the water resources policy but will not, however, develop a pollution reduc-
tion strategy. KLH is undertaking a short study of (mainly rural) land use in
the Dopunjur region which can be an input to the JMDP update. KLH is also
spear-heading a rivers clean up program (PROKASIH) which will address indus-
trial pollution in 20 rivers, 3 of which run through Jabotabek. Waste reduc-
tion plans will be agreed with key polluting industries. The Environmental
Protection Component of the project would help intensify and expand the
PROKASIH effort in Jabotabek, and provide it with a broader pollution reduc-
tion strategy and institutional strengthening. JICA is proposing to assist
DKI in training P4L staff in water and air quality monitoring and to
strengthen the laboratory capabilities. However there is need for substantial
additional assistance to finance laboratory equipment both for P4L and for
West Java Province (possibly through IHE). Finally there are three additional
high-priority feasibility studies for pollution reduction which are needed
(see below).
8.        The action areas proposed under the Environmental Protection compo-
nent of the project would complement the work underway by others noted above
and strengthen the weak or missing areas of action needed for environmental
management related to the three key elements described in para 6. The areas
are: i) institutional analysis and strensthening including trainins at the
provincial government level: ii) preparation of a pollution control strategy
and initiatin8 its implementation, iii) preparation of feasibility studies for
high priority proiects to make them ready for appraisal by financing agencies,
and iv) provision of laboratory and monitoring equipment to the two provincial
governments. Given existing weaknesses it would be unrealistic to expect
provincial agencies to mature quickly in this area of expertise. The institu-
tional development objective of the project is to initiate the process. More-
over, until clear and realistic standards are prescribed by the Central
Government, and in the absence of a strong legal framework, the effectiveness
of efforts under the project to strengthen institutional capability at the
provincial level for monitoring and, in particular, enforcement of pollution
controls could be limited.



- 119 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 5
Com1onents for Environmental Protection and Pollution Control
9.        The following components would comprise the environmental protection
strategy in the project. Draft Terms of Reference for the technical assis-
tance are being finalized.
(a) Institutional analysis and strengthening. (US$0.8 million
equivalent). Specialist assistance would be provided to KLH and the
two provincial governments to evaluate the options for institutional
structure and organization for environmental policy, management and
pollution monitoring and control at the Provincial level. The legal
form and specific powers of the Provincial level PMCAs will be
established by Government law and regulations during the course of
this study, as part of the establishment of a central-level PMCA.
An appropriate structure could then be established after the central
level institution is authorized. The study under the Jabotabek
Community and Environmental Improvement Project will prepare the
analysis, procedures, staffing and training requirements for
establishing a PMCA in the DKI and a similar analysis for West Java
(for the whole Province, not only for Botabek area). The principal
steps of the study will be as followss i) analyse the existing
extent and effectiveness of pollution monitoring and control in the
two Provinces, ii) from existing data on industrial and commercial
enterprises and on municipal and human wastes and on projections of
future growth, analyse the present and future staffing and training
requirements for private (self-monitoring) and public sector
monitoring, registration, permitting fee collection and enforcement
of pollution controls; iii) identify potential for participation of
communities and NGOs in pollution control strategy and monitoring;
iv) review expected scope of Provincial level Amdal/EIA submissions
and review and recommend staff strengthening and training
requirements, and if necessary advisory assistance to the Amdal
Comissi Daerah, v) help prepare, in coordination with work under the
Tree Crops Processing project, operational procedures including
quidance and action plans for PMCA's in DKI and West Java including
institutional, legal, administrative, financial, training and
technical aspects for effective operation. The assistance will also
cover costs for visits by officials to study pollution control
systems and procedures in other countries. This work be mobilized
soon by using grants available from the Japan Environment Fund. It
would be guided by a committee comprising KLH, PUOD, DKI & West
Java.
(b)  Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Strategy and Action
Plans. (US$0.7 million equivalent). The outputs of this work will
be to i) intensify and expand the registration and permitting of
industrial firms, initially on the PROXASIH rivers, then expanding
this effort systematically in Jabotabek, ii) present to policy-
makers in broad terms the economic and public health costs of
environmental degradation (in particular, river, coastal and ground
water pollution) in Jabotabek as a basis to judge the level of
effort and cost which should be applied to investments and
management of PC (in both public and private sectors)5 iii) prepare



ANNEX 3
-120 -                          Page 6
a least-cost pollution reduction strategy and action plan to achieve
feasible improvements in water and air quality. This would includes
analysis and recommendations on fees and charges and incentives
which could be applied to achieve compliance from industries;
complementary regulation and enforcement measures, and monitoring
system for a few environment indicators derived from the
Institutional Development study ((a) above) and a broad spatial
strategy, identifying requirements and coordinating the
implementation and timing of public sector investments (in municipal
and toxic wastes drainage, sewerage/ sanitation, KIP) with effluent
reduction targets for the industrial sector and with a land use
strategy for industrial expansion; iv) consolidate the
recomuendations from (ii) and (iii) above and from other studies
undertaken on water resources (through the Jabotabek Water and
Sanitation Project) and on land-use policy (under the Jabotabek
Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP) update and the RLH Bopunjur
study) into a summary Environment Protection Strategy report which
will provide overall guidance to GOI agencies on environmental
management in Jabotabek and the principal input to the JMDP and DRI
and Botabek Master Plans and; v) recommend any essential additional
strategy studies and data management which should be undertaken.
The component would be implemented by P4L and the BKLH's of DXI and
West Java and, since it would relate closely to the JMDP update, it
would be guided by The Jabotabek Committee (Inpres 13176) comprising
Bappenas, ILH, Dt. TRTD, DKI and West Java.
(c) Feasibility Studies for Priority Proiects. (US$0.6 million equiva-
lent). The following subjects were identified by KLH and the
provincial governments as high priority for subsequent financing by
external agencies - for example, through the proposed Bank-financed
Industrial Efficiency and Pollution Control Projects
2i) Industrial areas ioint waste treatment. This study would i)
undertake pre-feasibility work of three industry concentrations
in DRI (Moekewaert canal, Cilivung river and Pulogadung
industrial estate) to estimate, for effluent standards defined
in consultation with DKI and ILK, the technical and economic
feasibility of individual plant pre-treatment (where necessary)
followed by joint collection and treatment of liquid effluents,
versus individual plant treatment for all wastes, ii) from
review of the three areas, select one for in-depth analysis and
design to feasibility stage including criteria and estimated
costs for pre-treatment by main industrial categories in the
zone; schematic engineering design and costs of joint
collection and treatment works; examine institutional and
management options for designing, building and operating the
joint facility and the associated inspection and enforcement
system, and discharge, sampling and testing requirements;
propose an appropriate discharge fee or taxation structure for
the participating enterprises in order to recover a) capital
and b) operating costs and estimate the economic impact on a
representative sample of firms of the pre-treatment costs and
joint treatment charges and, iii) from the fore-going, prepare



- 121 -ANE 
Page 7
policy recommendations for joint collection and treatment
systems for new industrial estates under consideration by
Ministry of Industry and/or other GOI agencies; and
(ii) Small-scale industries waste reduction in DKI. There are over
3000 polluting small scale industries in DKI Which contribute a
substantial portion of the pollution load from dispersed
locations. Key subsectors include food processing, tanneries,
textile dyeing, batteries and metal finishing. End-of-pipe
waste treatment may not be economically feasible for many of
them, yet substantial reduction in pollution loads at low or no
net costs may be possible through better factory management,
changes in production technology, waste and input minimisation,
recycling, mobile waste collection systems etc. Through a
review of existing data on enterprise registration,
supplemented by a field sample of selected enterprises in the
sectors for analysis, the study would analyse the technical,
institutional and economic options and incentives of
appropriate measuress, and estimate the demand for finance and
technical advice to assist these industries.
(d)     Laboratory, Data-processing and Logistic Equipment.  (US$3.0
million equivalent) With more stringent monitoring and
enforcement of industrial waste discharges and monitoring of
ambient water quality to determine the progress and effectiveness
of pollution control, there will be a heavy demand for reliable
and rapid sampling and analysis of liquid, gaseous and solid
effluents by public sector laboratories and a capability for them
to certify and monitor the quality of private laboratories. The
DRI has nominated P4L laboratory to undertake this expanded work.
P4L is already monitoring effluents from 200 industries, but will
need to expand its capabilities to eventually monitor about 3000
industries. P4L submitted a list of equipment requirements which
the Bank reviewed and found acceptable for financing under the
project. The training requirements, and $220,000 of additional
equipment requirements for P4L are being covered under JICA
assistance and are therefore excluded from financing under this
project.
10.          A summary of the technical assistance person/months and costs is
shown in Annex 8, together with suggested source of financing through grants
and loan to GOX.



- 122 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Spatial Management
A. Introduction and Backtround
1.        The Jabotabek region, consisting of DKI Jakarta and Rabupatens Bek-
asi, Tangerang and Bogor and Kotamadya Bogor, contains the largest concentra-
tion of urban population in Indonesia. Furthermore, urbanization is increas-
ing rapidly with industrial and residential development spreading ever further
from DKI Jakarta into the surrounding areas. Jabotabek development is dynamic
and private sector investment is running at high levels.
2.        The 1986 population of Jabotabek is in the order of 15 million.  The
population of DRI Jakarta is around 8 million and over 2.3 million people live
in the immediate fringe areas. This can be compared to a total (1985) urban
population for the country of over 40 million. Unofficial projections fore-
cast a growth rate of around 3? annually for Jabotabek into the 21st century.
By 2005, the population of the region will exceed 26 million while the popula-
tion of 'Greater Jakarta* would approach 20 million.
3.        GOI, assisted by International agencies (both multilateral and
bilateral) has undertaken, and is undertaking, several major projects and
studies aimed at improving basic infrastructure and the process of project
planning and progravming in the region. To date, these initiatives have,
justifiably, concentrated on the immediate problems of the existing urban
areas (especially DRI, but also Kotamadya Bogor and other urban centers). The
extensive Kampung Improvement Programs and major improvements in the road
system in Jakarta demonstrate the success of these initiatives. Current
projects such as JUDP I, the Community and Environmental Improvement Project
(of which this study is a component), and the proposed Jabotabek Water and
Sanitation Project and IUIDP projects in Botabek will lead to further substan-
tial improvements.
4.        It is, however, apparent, as conditions in existing urban areas are
improved and as urban development expands into new areas, that the focus of
future projects must shift towards these areas and towards those which will be
developed in the future. indeed the 'Jabotabek Transport Network Planning and
Regulation Project' (JUDP I) has a time horizon of 2005. Such projects cannot
be properly prepared or coordinated outside a spatial planning strategy for
the region.
B. Review of Jakarta Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP)
5.        In view of the foregoing, a Strategic Plan for the region is there-
fore essential in order tot



AMNEX 4
- 123-                          Page 2
(a) facilitate medium- and long-term planning for physical infrastruc-
ture, particularly roads and water;
(b) ensure consistency between the various sectoral (e.g., transport,
water supply) and multisectoral IUIDP studies which are, and will
be, taking place in Jabotabek;
(c) facilitate the preparation of a consolidated, integrated multi-year
investment program for Jabotabek;
(d)  ensure access to a steady supply of serviced land for public and
private development while protecting environmentally sensitive are-
as;
(e) identify areas with high future development potential, i.e., "areas
of opportunity";
(f) explicitly incorporate environmental considerations (which are
giving rise to increasing concern) into the future development of
the region.
6.        The Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP) was produced in
1980, and in 1985 DTKTD produced the Konsep RUTRW JABOTABEK which was derived
from the JMDP, this plan has never been formally adopted.Conversely a
Structure Plan for DRI Jakarta (also based on the 1980 plan) has been
approved; it is currently under review. 1/
7.        To date there has been no substantial review of the Jabotabek
Metropolitan Development Plan (JHDP). Some preliminary work has been under-
taken by the Jabotabek Planning Team in DTKTD but progress has been hampered
by the almost total absence of synthesized information on the nature, scale
and location of changes which have occurred since 1980.
8.        A review of the existing JHDP is necessary because much of the
information on which the plan was based is now out-of-date:
(a) population has increased faster than expected;
(b) much development is occurring outside areas designated for residen-
tial development, sometimes in environmentally sensitive areas
(e.g., the aquifer recharge area south of Jakarta and the mountains
southeast of Bogor);
(c) conversely some designated growth areas show few signs of signifi-
cant growth;
(d) major developmenits (e.g., the toll roads and Serpong and Bekasi new
towns) which were not foreseen in the Plan have occurred.
1/   Conversely a Structure Plan for DRI Jakarta (also based on the 1980 plan)
has been approveds it is currently under review.



ANNEX 4
- 124 -                         Page 3
9.        Since the production of the 1980 JMDP, the IUIDP process has been
introduced to the local governments which comprise Jabotabek and it is evident
that a plan review process which includes a means of directly connecting plans
to the programming and budgeting of urban investment would be a valuable con-
tribution to the effort to improve the management of Jabotabek.
10.       Furthermore, since 1980, major infrastructure investment programs
have been introduced to Jabotabek, funded through multi-lateral funding
agencies. The Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Plan has not provided the
preparation process of these investment programs and adequate guidelines in
terms of overall Jabotabek planning objectives and a prioritized action plan
for achieving these objectives.
11.       Accordingly, the purpose of this technical assistance is to address
the above issues, technical and institutional, through:
(a) the preparation of an updated Metropolitan Development Plan for
Jabotabek; and
(b) the formulation of proposals to improve the capacity of DRI and the
Botabek local authorities to manage and implement the planning
process throughout the region.
Key Planning Issues and Study Objectives
12.       At present, the major planning concerns related to Jabotabek are:
(a) environmental degradation caused by uncontrolled development in the
Bogor, Puncak, Cianjur area (BOPUNCUR);
.b) continuing development in the aquifer recharge area to the South of
Jakarta and the long-term demand for water;
(c) the generally inefficient development of private sector housing
estates in Kecamatan on the fringe of DKI Jakarta;
(d)  the major industrial developments being undertaken without an ade-
quate planning framework;
(e) environmental pollution to rivers and water courses;
(f) the need to integrate the development of Serpong and Bekasi new
towns into the overall development of the region;
(g) a profusion of sectoral and multi-sectoral development projects
affecting Jabotabek which are not coordinated with any overall
Master Plan;
(h) the need to maximize the development opportunities arising from
infrastructure investment such as the toll roads.
13.       The other major area of concern is the absence of a strong institu-
tional context for planning in Jabotabek. Despite the presence of agencies



-125 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 4
and organizations with responsibilities for guiding and coordinating the urban
development of Jabotabek, spatial planning remains largely the responsibility
of the level II local governments. These authorities, which are often techni-
cally weak, receive minimal guidance from the existing Metropolitan Plan, BKSP
or WAPPENAS. They therefore have little input to the land development process
which operates primarily through Badan Pertanahan Nasional (formerly DG
Agraria) at TX I and TK II levels.
Study Objectives
14.       Technical/Planning Objectives.  The overall technical/planning
objective of the Study is to produce an updated Metropolitan Development Plan
for Jabotabek which covers the short- (1994), medium- (1999) and long- (2009)
terms. The specific objectives of these plans would bet
(a) to define a spatial strategy for Jabotabek which:
(i) restricts development in environmentally-sensitive areas;
(ii) reflects national and regional development objectives;
(iii) fully integrates the development of Serpong and Bekasi New
towns;
(iv) maximizes the development opportunities afforded by new
developments such as the toll roads; and
(v) incorporates probable trends in demographic and economic
growth.
(b)  to facilitate infrastructure planning and programming throughout the
region by providing the spatial context required to ensure a consis-
tent and coordinated approach by ongoing and future sectoral and
multi-sectoral investment projects in the region;
(c)  to support rather than restrict private sector activities;
(d)  to identify areas in which development activities is particularly
intense as well as potential future growth centers ("areas of
opportunity');
(e)  to formulate appropriate development control policies Which will
facilitate the implementation of Plan policies.
15.       Institutional Ob3ectives,  The institutional objectives of this
Study are:
(a)  to establish a planning process for Jabotabek embracing central,
provincial and local government, which facilitates Plan implemen-
tation;
(b)  to link the plan preparation and review process with sectoral
programuing and investment, through the identification of an Action



ANNEX 4
-126.-                          Page 5
Plan for implementation of the Jabotabek Metropolitan Development
Plan which, in turn, is linked to the local government budget prepa-
ration cycle;
(c)  to assess the effectiveness of the existing legal framework related
to spatial planning;
(4) to formulate development control procedures whicht
(i) provides support for the role of DKI Jakarta and TK II authori-
ties as the principal agents for development control;
(ii) respect current procedures for land acquisition and development
as far as possible;
(iii) do not unnecessarily restrict private sector (both formal and
informal) activities.
(e) to upgrade the managerial and technical capacity of personnel
involved in the planning process.
Scope of Work
16.       The scope of work described in the tasks listed below is not neces-
sarily exhaustive. It is open to the Consultant's tendering to propose
different emphases or additional tasks which they consider to be of major
importance.
17.       Three other general points should be noted.  Firstly, work related
to DKI should concentrate on those aspects (e.g.. population, and policies and
proposals for the fringe areas of DKI) which affect the Botabek areas. In
general, proposals of the DRI Structure Plan should be accepted; this is not
to say that recommendations relating to DKI should not be made if they are
considered to be of crucial importance for Jabotabek as a whole.
18.       Secondly, most aspects relating to development in the region have
been studied in recent yeare or are being examined at present. With the main
exception of land use (Task 2), it is not anticipated that significant field
work, or collection of primary data will be required. This reinforces the
need to conduct thorough reviews of all existing and ongoing studies and to
obtain and use recent available aerial photography and/or satellite imagery.
19.       Thirdly, an aim of this study is to prepare a spatial strategy which
indicates priorities, and provides guidelines, for the formulation of sectoral
policies and programs. The preparation of detailed sectoral Master Plans is
not required.



127 -                ~~~~ANNEX 4
- 127 -                         Page 6
C. Fringe Area Spatial Planning
Key Issues and Study Approach
20.       The key planning issues relating to the fringe areas ares
(a) the occurrence of development in environmentally-sensitive areas;
(b) the difficulty of obtaining sites for public sector projects;
(c) inadequate and costly provision of social and physical
infrastructure;
(d) the difficulty of forecasting growth and the potential for densitif-
ication in frfnge areas; and
5e) the need to upgrade the technical capacity of the local planning
authorities.
21.       Another critical issue is private sector involvement.  Currently,
the great majority of development, both formal and informal, in the fringe
areas is being undertaken by the private sector. Existing planning documents
for Botabek can be criticized, for among other things, failing to recognize
this fact and being overly optimistic regarding the ability of the public
sector to influence and finance urban development.
22.       The Plans to be prepared by this Study must therefore reflect the
new approach to spatial planning being promoted by DTKTD which stresses the
need for plans to be more responsive towards the dynamics of metropolitan
urban growth and more supportive of private sector initiatives. These plans
would adopt a more realistic assessment of the extent to which urban develop-
ment can, and should, be promoted or controlled through physical plans.
Proposals should be designed to facilitate urban development through public/
private sector partnerships.
23.       Regarding the key issue of the environment, this Study will concen-
trate on the identification of land use proposals and control policies needed
to preserve environmental standards, it will not deal with environmental mana-
gement as a whole as this aspect is being dealt with by other components of
the Community and Environmental Improvement Project or the proposed Jabotabek
Vater and Sanitation Project.
Study Objectives
24.       In order to address the above issues, the objectives of this Study
will be:
(a) to translate the policies and objectives of the strategic Master
Plan into an operational framework capable of implementation at the
local levels
(b)  to explicitly incorporate environmental considerations into local
area planning;



AN=B 4
-128 -                          Page 7
(c) to develop a methodology for a more operational and responsive
approach to spatial planning and dynamic growth at local level which
supports rather than rest.icts private sector activities; to develop
public/private sector partnerships for urban development;
(d) to formulate appropriate development control policies when required,
including the cost implications of zoning and building regulations,
to facilitate Plan implementation and hence ensure the orderly deve-
lopment of the fringe areas and future growth centers;
(e) to provide an optimized and least cost spatial context for the for-
mulation of medium-term infrastructure programs for these areas;
(f) to prepare phased land development programs;
(g) to establish procedures for plan review and updating;
(h) to provide innovative inputs to future JUDP and IUIDP projects for
fringe areas of Jakarta;
Ci) to provide technical support to the TK II planning authorities.
25.       Regarding institutional and financial aspects, it is anticipated
that the majority of these will have been resolved by ongoing studies, prin-
cipally the Master Plan Review and the Jabotabek IUIDP. This Study should
respect the proposals made in these studies and should only formulate new pro-
posals insofar as they relate to the coordination of public and private sector
activities and local planning. Proposals will also define how the financial
implications of projects identified under this Study can best be integrated
into the overall budgeting processes of each kabupaten.
Plan ImPlementation
26.       The objective is to prepare an Integrated Urban Development Program
for each kecamatan up to the end of Repelita 6, i.e., 1999. The IUIDP can be
seen as an Action program which incorporates the infrastructure elements of
IUIDP and comprehensive land development proposals.
27.       Institutional Aspects.  Proposals will be formulated xrith a view to:
(a) improving interagency coordination for local planning and
development;
(b) encouraging community participation in urban development matters;
(c) promoting a joint approach to urban development by public and
private sectors.



ANNEX 4
-129                           kae
Pag8e 8
D. Development Monitoring System
Study Obiectives
28.       The project is intended to consolidate available information onto a
common series of base maps and a computerized data base. This will be related
to a system of coordinates for the land use maps which can be used by all rel-
evant agencies. The Project will largely rely on existing aerial photography
and maps. Some field surveys will be required but these will be more in the
nature of check rather than detailed surveys. For critical areas where infor-
mation from available sources is clearly inadequate, the use low-level oblique
aerial photography using 35 vm cameras may be essential. Pull cartographic
accuracy will not be required.
29.       The principal technical aim of this Project is to furnish assistance
to DTKTD, and Bctabek TK II authorities (BAPPEDA and BPN) which will:
(a) provide updated, medium-scale land use maps for urbanized and semi-
urbanized areas in Botabek;
(b) provide a computerized data base on land use, built up area, usable
land, ecologically sensitive areas, legal zoning constraints, exist-
Ing population and densities;
(c) establish a Development Monitoring System for these areas to ensure
an adequate level of information on physical development activities
in the Region;
(d) achieve the widest possible dissemination of these outputs and prov-
ide guidelines for their use;
(e) establish procedures for the continuous updating of this information
base and the continued development of the monitoring system; and
(f) create a land development time series in Botabek area.
30.       The updated maps and the Development Monitoring System will:
(i)  support the proposed review and updating of the Konsep RUTRW
Jabotabek preparation of detailed plans for the urban fringe
areas;
(i&) facilitate the integrated planning and programming of infrastr-
ucture programes, particularly for the IUIDP sectors, through
the provision of updated base maps and information on land use
changes;
(iii)  improve PBB collection through the identification of formal
sector housing estates;
(iv) provide a centralized source of information on physical develo-
pment activities in Jabotabek; and



ANNEX 4
- 130 -                        Page 9
(v) resolve the duplication of data collection exercise in the Reg-
ion and reduce the need for major data collection/map-updating
exercise in the future.
31.       The following Institutional objectives tre intended to highlight
those areas of activity which require reinforcement.
(i)  to allocate of responsibilities between agencies for map updat-
ing and development monitoring, strengthening the urban manage-
ment ability of TX II authorities while recognizing the need
for some centralization for strategic planning purposes;
(ii) to produce effective procedures for the dissemination of the
resultant information to concerned central, provincial and lo-
cal government authorities and the private sector; and
liii) to develop ongoing procedures for map updating and development
monitoring.
32.       Development MonitorinT  Syste
The establishment of a Development Monitoring System will reflect:
(i)  the current and likely future availability of information;
(ii) the technical capacity of staff in the implementing agencies;
and
(iii) the need for cost-effectiveness, i.e., the system must not re-
quire substantial operating finance from local and central gov-
ernment.
33.       The system required will not be parcel based, but will use a rela-
tively simple Geographic Information System (GIS) to relate quantitative in-
formation to homogenous land units. Full computerization of the mapping proc-
ess is unlikely to be justified at this stage. However, the computer process-
Ing of information to monitor developments will be essential. The use of sim-
ple computer graphics to depict the results of the monitoring surveys is an-
ticipated. Although full map digitization is not proposed for this Project,
map preparation techniques adopted would have regard to the need to digitize
information in the future.
34.       The proposed monitoring system is likely to be based around field
surveys initially. The establishment of improved reporting systems on key
development indicators such as development permits, land titles, and building
permits will also be incorporated into the proposed monitoring system.



- 131-                          pAgeX
INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABER URBMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation of Improved OUM
A. Introduction
1.        In conformance with national policy, one of the elements of the
project is operations and maintenance (O&M) of human services infrastructure,
and there is an allowance for Technical Assistance thereto. The Government
intends to implement the already tried and tested Performance Oriented
Maintenance Management System (POMS), supported further by their experience
gained to date in the cities in which the system is implemented. Given the
unique organizational structure of DRI, its size and service features, as well
as the Kotamadya and Kotips of the Botabek Kabupatens and their urbanized
Kecamatans; plus the density and large size of the population in the Jabotabek
area, the Technical Assistance contemplated here requires an approach that is
different from simply the introduction of improved management systems in those
agencies responsible for O&M of city infrastructure.
B. Obiectives
2.        The overall aim of the Technical Assistance is to detenmine the most
suitable method of managing O&M between and among the various levels of
government comprising Jabotabek, and assisting these organizations in imple-
menting recommendations for improving management of O&M.  This will be done in
close coordination with IUIDP in DKI and in Botabek, and with other affected
government programs and policies.
3.        The management system approach will be based primarily on the PONMS
system which was developed for the Ministry of Home Affairs. However, due to
the unique organizational setup of DXI, application of the various components
of the POMM0 system will be assigned and coordinated based on actual organiza-
tional responsibilities. The focus of the study will also be on developing a
strategy for implementation of POMMS in the Rabupaten setting, specifically
adapted to the urbanized Kecamatans of the Botabek Kabupatens.
4.        This is to be done in the context of Governmnt's policy and
priority of encouraging decentralization, of and fostering responsibility for,
infrastructure upkeep at the local level. Full account must be taken, how-
ever, of the regional features and jurisdictional and other special
constraints of Jabotabek.
C. Scope
Technical Assistance
S.        Technical Assistance will be provided by a team of Indonesian and
expatriate specialists in the areas of O0M of management and technical exper-
tise, policy, institutions and finance. The special circumstsaces of



ANNEX 5
- 132 -                         Page 2
Jabotabek will require a correspondingly special approach in their treatment.
This will involve an integrated team of expert consultants and GOI counterp-
arts, working in close concert with affected Level I and II agencies.
6.        Effective implementation of the O&M management system will take
account of (i) the involvement of all three levels of government in O&M in
each of the five non-autonomous Administrative Divisions in DKI, and (ii) the
inter-related roles and responsibilities of the several administrative levels
and operational units making up Botabek. These levels consist of three
autonomous Kabupatens, each with a non-autonomous Kotip, in addition to one
Kabupaten with an autonomous Kotamadya.
7.        The unique situation in DKI is not replicated, in any of the eight
pilot cities in the ongoing O&M studies, and its solution will require some
innovative arrangements not tested previously. However, the situation in
Botabek is expected to have better correlation with the O&M study--strongly in
the case of Kotamadya Bogor because seven of the eight pilot cities are
Kotamadyas; less so in the case of the three Botabek Kotips and their parent
Kabupatens because only one of the pilot cities (Denpasar) is similar to this
case. One of the main outputs of the project, correcting this imbalance, will
be the finally implemented Botabek Xabupaten/Kotip O&M model, which can then
be subsequently replicated in other urban Kabupatens.
8.        The cornerstone of system implementation will be the adaptation of
PO W to the present Jabotabek organizations and operational units, rather
than changing these to accommodate POMKS. With this foundation,
implementation will be a process in three dimensions:
(a) The first will be vertical installation of appropriate POMMS compo-
nent parts in the several administrative levels of each munici-
pality.
(b) The second will be horizontal integration of PONMS in all opera-
tional units covering their respective O&M subsectors.
(c) The third will be institutionalizing PONW at each of the several
coordinate points of the foregoing to ensure effective O&M manage-
ment, Zinance, budgeting, and execution.
9.        The outcome of this process in each of the Jabotabek municipalities
will reflect its individual O&M management needs.  A hand-tailored and fine-
tuned version of the most appropriate (which may be a combination covering
different subsectors) of three model management system alternatives will be
installed in each. One model will be geared to contracting out O&M, the next
to force account methods, and the third to removing from local urban districts
certain O&M activities best done collectively at a different level or place.
Each will be further refined to match individual municipality subsectoral fea-
tures, and incorporate provisions for local issues or priorities such as com-
munity participation, labor-intensive O&M, and similar options.



- 133 -                         Page 3
(ii) Time Period
10.       The period of performance will be 24 months divided into three
phases coverings
(a) Phase one, (3 months). Survey of selected organizational units as
to needs, capacity, and resources as well as assignment of respon-
sibilities for OM based on field reconnaissance, interviews, and
questionnaires.
(b) Phase two, (5 months). OM profile of representative Administrative
Divisions (DRI) and of Rodys Bogor and Kecamatans (DRI and Botabek
Rabupatens). Analysis and categorization in terms of adaptability
to model management system alternatives, further stratified by O&0
subsectors and activities.
(c) Phase three, (16 months). Management system installations. Imple-
ment and fine-tune in all organizational units the variation of
POMMS best fitting their individual needs In each subsector and OM
activity.
(iii)  014 Subsectors and Fuctional Areas
II.       For consistency with the present OM study, and provided there are
no compelling reasons for revision, the Technical Assistance will address the
infrastructure subsectors oft
* flood control,
* drainage,
* solid waste,
* human waste,
* streets and bridges,
* street lighting,
* buildings,
* parks and
* cemeteries.
These will be considered from the standpoint of the following functional
areas:
* management
* finance and budget,
* execution and codes of practice, and
* institutional development.



ANNEX S
- 134 -                         Page 4
12.       During Implementation, particular emphasis will be given to the
roles and responsibilities of the several administrative and jurisdictional
levels of Jabotabek, to regional O&M policies, and to the major Issues
implicit in these and in the functional areas noted above. Accordingly, major
items of work of the Tecbnical Assistance will address the following as they
relate to each subsector.
(a) Roles and Responsibilities of:
* Central government
* Provincial government
* Municipal governments and Kecamatans
* State enterprises and authorities
* Private enterprises
* Community participation
* Project handover procedures
• O&M coordination among and between Jabotabek Local Governments
' Equipment service and repair
' Materials stocks, spare parts management.



- 135 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessments
1.        The project was appraised within two months of the Bank's OD on
environmental assessment becoming effective and as DRI-Jakarta and MPW were
developing and beginning to apply their own EA processes. Those processes,
however, were not adequately operational to produce by appraisal full EAs.
Instead DKI and Bank staff during the project identification and preparation
phases determined the major environmental issues and suggested alternative
minimization and mitigating measures. These were further studied by the
project preparation consultants and incorporated as appropriate Into project
planning and design, which for some components is still ongoing. This
notwithstanding, during appraisal EA work was initiated by DKI to address
issues in greater detail, and to involve DXI staff more closely in the
process.
2.        DKI environmental assessment procedures are prescribed by GOI Law 4
of 1982, Regulation PP 29 of 1986, and Ministerial Decrees 49, 50 and 51 of
1987. An analysis was made to compare the Bank's OD with these procedures.
It was concluded that if environmental issues were addressed, with some
expansion of subjects and in accordance with local procedures faithfully
applied, the requirements of the Bank's OD would be satisfied. Key subjects
of the Bank's OD and GOI regulations and guidelines are compared in Table 1,
and Figure 1 illustrates GOI procedures.
3.        Reliance on GOI procedures in the future will require further
development of GO0 agency capabilities and this is now in progress in projects
under preparation. Bank staff are also becoming conversant with the relevant
central and local government laws, regulations, procedures and organizational
units so they may better support Indonesian staff. Thus it is anticipated
that for future projects, the EA process would be started at the outset of
project development so there is adequate time to mobilize staff and
consultants and so key decisions (such as the location of the project site)
are not pre-empted. Generic constraints of funding and expertise which
operate on both 001 and the Bank, together with institutional development
needs, are subjects currently being discussed at the policy level with GOI.
4.        An overview of the environmental issues and solutions for the
subject project is in Table 2. Within this set there are two components that
are receiving priority attention because of their potential lmpacts. These
are:
(a) Solid wastes (including the clean-up of informal dumps along
Jabotabek canals and regular residential refuse collection and
disposal).
(b) Kampung Improvement (including mainly drainage improvement,
community and on-site sanitation, and water supply).



ANNEX 6
- 136 -                         Page 2
DXI Jakarta, as the principal project proponent, is responsible for and is
undertaking environmental assessments for these components. The following
details the issues addressed in the assessment process and Table 3 outlines
the monitoring program related to them.
Solid Waste Component
5.        For the purpose of the environmental assessment, solid waste manage-
ment can be divided in to the following operationst
(a) consumer household disposal;
(b) collection and transfer from the consumer household to the transfer
station;
(c) transfer station operations;
(d) transport to the final disposal site; and
'e) the final disposal site.
6.        The issues for consumer household disposal ares  (a) the possible
need for separation of household waste at the household level, and if so,
inclusion of this in the community participation aspects of the project; and
(b) the possible need for a household storage system (the type and location of
container used by the household) that is environmentally acceptable, based on
a public health, and public nuisance (smell and visual) perspective, to
complement DKI's new solid wastes collection capability.
7.        Issues for collection, transfer and transport from the consumer
household to the transfer stations and from there to the disposal site are:
(a) a possible increase in noise from the new waste collection and transport
system; (b) possible damage to road surfaces given the type and weight of the
collection trucks; (c) possible increase in traffic congestion, and pedestrian
hazards, either because of the size and type of truck or anticipated hours of
collection, in residential areas, along transport routes and at the disposal
sites (d) the siting of facilities to ensure that they are appripriately
located to prevent environmental problems associated with noise and smells,
public health issues, and nuisance resulting from fugitive wastes and insects;
and (e) possible need to handle hazardous wastes (such as might arise in
industrial areas) that may not have a separate hazardous waste disposal
system.
8.        The issues related to final disposal site ares  (a) occupational and
health impacts on people living or working around the disposal site;
(b) potential impacts of noise, odor, flies and fugitive rubbish escaping from
the disposal site; and (c) potentially adverse impacts on surface or ground
water from leachates.



ANNEX 6
- 137 -                        Page 3
9.        The EA prepared for the solid wastes facility, reviewed by the Bank
and approved by the responsible provincial regulatory agency, identifies
measures required in the operation of the site to mitigate the possible
harmful impacts includings i) traffic management measures to handle increased
vehicle flows; ii) lining the site to collect leachates and arrangements for
environmentally sound treatment of leachates.
Kampung Improvement Project Component
10.       Although the KIP program has many components, drainage, community
and on-site sanitation and water supply are the most likely to result in
environmental change. Issues related to drainage improvements are:
(a) possible change in flooding patterns caused by improved runoff and water
collection and removal from Kampungs, impacting upon down-stream communities;
and (b) the adequacy of secondary and primary collector drains in their
present condition to accommodate added discharges from improved drainage
systems.
11.       The issues related to community and on-site sanitation primarily
concern the environmental trade-offs of using on-site sanitation. On-site
sanitation will certainly improve sanitary conditions in areas proximate to
the household (where random defication is not an uncommon practice). On-site
systems also reduce the pollution burden on surface waters which are the
source of choice for medium and long term supply of water development.
Despite largely favorable impacts, however, the disposal of human wastes to
on-site sanitation facilities could adversely affect groundwater quality
through the introduction of nitrates. bacteria and virus carried by the
leaching wastewater.   Most such pollutants are, however, retained in the
sanitation facility or are purified in the surrounding soil. An exception is
nitrate but dilution will normally reduce nitrate concentrations to harmless
levels. The benefits of safe disposal of human wastes generally far outweigh
the possible health risks *.-alting from marginal groundwater pollution.
Nonetheless, where population density is high, natural infiltration is low and
groundwater is used as a source of drinking water, monitoring of groundwater
nitrates concentration will be undertaken under the project;
12.       At present, there is a heavy use of groundwater by residents in many
Kampungs. Groundwater quality is already poor in many areas and this is a
prime justification for the piped water supply components in Second Jabotabek
Urban Development Project (JUDP II) and this Third Jabotabek Urban Development
Projects (tJUDP III). The rate at which the groundwater becomes unusable is
important as there will be a difference between identification of a need and
the time required to design and construct infrastructure to meet the need.
The assessment of the community and on-site sanitation component of JUIP III
would therefore include, area by area, the suitability and trend of shallow
groundwater as a source. This information would then be used to guide the
locational decisions for JUDP II and this project.
13.       The above !ssues are being addressed through the EA process in the
course of project design or implementation, and measures to mitigate or
minimize them would be both a part of the design and of the operational



-138-                          ANNEX 6
Page 4
procedures. These measures would be prescribed in an environmental management
plan, and their effectiveness would be monitored, also as prescribed in a
plan.
14.       The KIP program includes the provision of water supply standpipes,
courtyard and house connections. These end-of-system facilities would be
tapped into the distribution systems built by the Jakarta water utility,
funded in part under JUDP II. The key environmental issue here is to ensure
that the water purveyed is uniformly potable. Under JUDP II, the water
utility's capabilities for monitoring and controlling water quality would be
strengthened, and this is deemed adequate for the purpose of JUDP III.



-139-
INDONESTA                           ANNEX 6
Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP III)      YtSure I
Administrative Procedures for Environmental Assessment (Local)
to,~~~"a
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Yni @St
/t~~~~~~~N ._         91t*A
O"nS                             Y                     dr03
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 5) 1'
sSSu.ti



-140-                                   ANNE  6
Table 1
Tib1s*1I  COMPARISON OF BSAlK AND GO? 1PW EL PROCZSSZS a
Proceduse                 Bank                            GO?JIPW
Categorizing     Category A - Major             Category 1 - Same as Bank's
projects (or     impacts, do EA                 category A) - Significant
components of                                   impactsa  do detailed EA (ANDAL
projects)                                       or SEL) /a
When to do EA    Category S - Limited           Category 2 - Impacts, but the
impact, do limited EA         magnitude uncertain; do
preliminary assessment (P1L or
PEL lb). If PIL/PEL indLcates
significant impacts, do
detailed EL (AndalISIL).
Category C - Little or no     Category 3 - So ipacts (same
impact, no EA                 as Bank's category C).
Category D - Environmental
project, no EA
Yhen to do EL    During project prepara-        Prefeasibility do PLs
tion.  IEPS Ldentifies key    feasibility stage do ANDALs
issue0, type EL to be         detailed design or later do
prepared, sets preliminary    StL or PEL.  Emagement plaa
schedule.  Agree this with    (RIL) and amonitoring plan
the borrower. Incorporate    (RPL) c are included as one
minimization/mLtigation       part of package with
measures in EA and include    ANDALISIL, and with PSLIPEL if.
in feasibility and design.   they are stand-alone studies.
EA available at appraisal.
Responsible      lorrower                       Project proponent (DGXD. W,
for EL                                          sumn Settlements, Do
Highways)
Punding          Conventional project pre-      EL part of project preparation
sources          paration sources or            cost, post-project amonitoring
environmental grant           part of operations cost.
facility.  owever, more       Government may provide funds
staff time will be            for golongan lemah (weak
required during prepara-      economic groups) project
tion, appraisal and super-    proponents.
vision stages of the
project cycle.
lf   The EL process of DII essentially the same as for MPW, however it is at an
earlier stage of development.



- 141 -
IRNDONSIA                             ANX6
Table 2
p,En AMMSK  URBAK DE=L              PROJECT           Page 1
EnviLronmental Issues and Soluti9ns
Item                    Issues                         Solutions
I) Solid wastes   Public and worker health.            Training and monitoring.
collection
and disposal.
Potential for land and water        Properly designed equipment
contamination, odor and disease     and landfill, good operation
vectors, and public safety          of systems, resource recovery,
issues related to transport         training.
and at disposal site.
Identify residential areas and
areas of human congregation
(especially public support
infrastructure like schools,
hospitals, recreational areas
etc.) near any formal or
informal transfer stations
then properly design haul
routes and trip frequencies.
In-home management of wastes.       Citizen education, awareness
raising.
2) On-site        Contamination of shallow             Properly designed facility,
sanitation.    groundwater.                         adequate operation and
maintenance. If on-site
privy not feasible explore
alternative solutions (MCK,
shallow sever, act). Apply
lessons of JSSP. Reduce
reliance groundwater by
introducing piped water.
Health education.
NOTE: Items 2, 3 and 4 are part of Kampong Improvement Component



- 142 -
Table 2
Page 2
. ................... .   _. _.. . . . .. . .. .. . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . .
Item                   Issues                        Solutions
3) Drainage.     Adequacy of microdrains             Survey availability and
to convey storm and waste          capacity of microdrains.
waters.                            Follow JSSP model as
appropriate. Improve
maintenance; DKI enforce
regulations; prevent
construction of obstruction;
upgrade drainage.
4) Water supply.  Ensure that purveyed water         Proper design and operation
is safe.                           of facilities.  Monitor
purveyed water quality and
adjust water supply operations
if necessary.
5) Any component Resettlement of people from         Prepare action plan which
that requires  sites required under the           considers financial social,
resettlemnt.   project (pipelines, plants,        health, economic and
access roads, etc.)                cultural parameters.  Provide
adequate funding to fulfill
plan.



INDOSIESA                                                                        AN5!X6
........                                                                         ......
THIRD    ATIEI UI       DELOPNENT PROECT                                                       Table 3
Owtline of Monitorino Proru  for Selected Corp_net
................................................. ....................................................................................................  ..^........
Monitoring                 Monitorng                   monitorirn                 Monitoring                 trigr
C*nant           Issue                     Perimeter                  Location                   Frequency                  Units                         t
............................................ I........................................................................................................ 
Solid Wastes    Collection &               Site inspection            Each tronsfer station      Random, on a qwrterly    Buitdu  of mallocated    Publie coplaints
Opelrtion of                                         and sehaple  of            basfs (4/yr)                rbbish, poor cleani-
tramfer st.                                          Kapng  (101)                                           ness arowd area of
transfer sts.
Tranport of wastes        Traffic, psbhlc            Identifled haul routes    Random, on a monthly        MuaSor of accidents         Pubic caltants
to final  disposal        health am safety                                      basis (12 times/yr)         inotvlin  truceks,         reported incidene
for the first year, then  Interview of locals         of traffic and
bi-atm    y                along the routes,          pedestrian acidents
noise and Lost garbage
nuisnce assss.
24 hour traffic survey
Operation of ldfutll    Lechte iawats                Ip & dwemtrem              Monthty f"r the 1st         Five day BOD, COO  etal  Deterloretfng water
sites                     on wsface wter             of leschate col. pond &   2 yrs thn tri-amal,    ions, orpgnic comdes,  qAlity at Noter intes,
dup                        of water & sedfMents       PC3's etc. as indicted   loss of prodiatfvity of   i
by list of mtter           water & and-based
deposited In dtp           agrieulture
Leechte ispats on          Shalluo gromrd water        On quarterly basis        Vater denidstry based on  beteriorating water
roxoters                   wells In a 1 km radius    (wet & dry sesoen)           list of iteral             quality of the growd-
of the *Ap                 for lot two yrs,           deposited in dup           water, pbic complaints
then an yearly basis
N"lth £ nulsan             Within at least             8i-eal survey of          sell, fly, rdent            "lic cltint.,
1 km of the dup            the local residents        noise, traffic, health    pinlc health statisttce
KI aUr           Nock-op to                Local flooding             75 In OKI                  cmitity reporting                                      onset of rainy sean
l     nrovamant  secondary drairs                                     25 In SOTABEK              systm
Prem
Individuals with                                      Yeorly                     incidence of  ater           tber of denue fever,
infection                                                                        born  dises                tyolfd. and siil ar fo
taret area
on-site snitation         Groumater pollution        Ssomple of                 Twie* In each yr            Facal col. nitrates &    Nigh incidence of
Kpigps (1w)                (wet & dry sesn)           nitrites                   groaioater use in
Operational efficiency    Sthawpt of                  Yearly review of            Incidellee of diseseo      High (neldence of diarrhe
Kuqinpgs (101)             pintic health sites        assc. with poor            and gstro- intestinal
sanftation                 disorders. Coere to
uniapoved Ko2tbs



- 144 -
ANmE 7
Page 1
INONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPKENTY PROJECT
Assumrtions in Financial Projections
DRI Jakarta
1.1         Local Government 2hterprises
Local Government Enterprises are assumed to be financially
independent of DRI Jakarta. Therefore, DRI Jakarta's financial projections
are not anticipated to reflects
Subsidies to Local Government Enterprise activities, as
appropriate.
Local Government Enterprises borrowings, investments, and debt
service e.g. proposed Jabotabek Water and Sanitation Project
Unforseen additional revenues from Local Government Enterprises.
1.2         Source and Nlz of Revenues
Preliminary estimates of the principal sources of revenues for
1989/90, excluding carryover from last year and non-operational Income, in
order of contribution, are shown below:



- 145 -
AM=  7
Page 2
No. of       Preliminary             Cumm
Sources     Ry.bill       I           I
Central Government
*     Routine subsidies and grants    5          131          252         252
*     Development Inpres grants        1          31           61         312
6         162         31S
Transfer of motor vehicle tax          1         121          23Z         54Z
Motor Vehicle registration tax         1           78         152         69Z
PBB                                    1          32           61         751
Hotel & Restaurant consumption tax    1           26           51         802
Entertainment tax                      1          15           31         831
Borrowings                             1          14           21         85S
Street Light tax                       1          13           21         87Z
Development Control (DPPK)             1          12           22         891
City Planning (DTK)                    1          11           2Z         91S
Water drilling charges                 1            5          11         92?
Advertising tax and retribusi          2            4          1Z         93Z
Land Certificates                      1            4          1S         94S
Parking                                1           3           1S         952
Identification Card, etc. (DR)         1           3           12         96l
Bank  Pembangunan Daerah               1           3           1S         972
Other                                 68          18           31        1002
9o-        524        iooS
Of the 90 sources of revenuesifunding, 22 sources of revenue (Z'i
percent) currently contributes Rp. 506 billion or 97 percent of DII Jakarta's
source of funds, excluding carry over from last year (Rp. 37 billion) and non-
operational income (Rp. 9 billion).
In 1988/89 total Central Government subsidies and grants
represented 31 percent (Rp. 162 billion) of DRI Jakarta's funding (excluding
carry over from last year and non-operational income). This percentage is
projected to decrease to 23 percent by the end of Pelita V i.e., 1993194 (Rp.
252 billion on total funds received of RP. 1085 billion).
The next most significant source of revenue is currently derived
from motor vehicle transfer and registration tax. Together they represented
38 percent of operational revenue (tRp. 524 billion) in 1988/89.
The third most significant source now, and considered by
management to increase significantly in the future, is PBB, PBB currently
represents 6 percent of operation revenues (both including and excluding
borrowings). PBS by the end of Pelita V is projected the contribute 15 of
operational revenue (16 percent excluding borrowings).



- 146 -
AMWX 7
Page 3
1.3         RoutIne Accout Surplue
Routine Account surplus is projected to increase at an average of
12.7 percent per annum, in Pelita V. The overall growth of the surplus during
Pelita V, however, is projected to increase by 61 percent as compared to 75
percent durting Pelita IV.
1.4         Debt Service Capability
DXI Jakarta's current debt service capability (DSC) is dependent
on the routine account surplus plus INPRES grants. Before RIAPs:
*     DSC is projected to increase from Rp. 43 billion in 1989/90 to Rp.
70 billion in 1993194 and Rp. 141 billion in 1998199.
s     Debt service utilized is currently projected to peak in 1995196 at
50 percent of DSC.
*     The average debt service utilized in Pelita V and VI is 19 percent
and 38 percent, respectively.
s     Debt service represents 1.3 percent of total routine expenditures
in Pelita V and 2.6 percent in Repelita VI.
After RIAP alternative of 60X local revenue & PBB and 402
borrowings:
*     DSC Is projected to increase from Rp. 44 billion in 1989190 to Rp.
90 billion in 1993194 and Rp. 252 billion in 1998199.
*     Debt service utilized peaks in 1998/99 at 82.2 percent of DSC.
*     The average debt service utilized in Pelita V and Pelita VI is
22.5 percent and 71.0 percent, respectively.
*     Debt service represents 1.7 percent of total routine expenditure
in Pelita V and 6.0 percent in Repelita VI.
DRI Jakarta's DSC will need to be modified in accordance with the
parameters established by th.e Central Government under the Regional
Development Account and by DKI Jakarta management policy, as appropriate.
1.5         Development Expenditure and Borrowings
Based on 1988/89 preliminary actual development expenditures of
Rp. 203 billion the average annual increase in Pelita V is 29.0 percent. The



- 147 -
ARMEX 7
Page 4
annual growth rates for development indicate a significant increase in
development expenditures over 1988189 of 55.2 percent in 1989190, followed by
10.8 percent in 1990/91.
Total development expenditures for Pelita V are projected to be
Rp. 2,420 billion of vhich currently (l.e. before RIAP) Rp. 210 billion or 8.6
percent is estimated to be externally funded.
Current projected external borrowings for Pelita V include Bank-
financed JUDP I and Jabotabek Community and Environmental Improvement Project
only.
DKI Jakarta, based on its DSC, has the capability to increase its
borrowigsg to assist finance development expenditures.
Borrowings as a percent of development expenditure and total
expenditures, after RIaP of 60 percent local revenues and 40 percent
borrowings.
After RIAP 40X Borrowings
Pelita V   Repelita VI   Total
Borrowings as 2 of:
- Development Expenditures                15.8?       20.62
- Total Expenditures                       8.32       13.02



- 148 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
1.6         Targeted Levels of Additional Revenue
DXI Jakarta's development expenditures and targeted levels of
additional revenue for the last two (2) years and for Pelita V are shown
below:
Targeted Level
Development      Z       Surplus   Targeted Level  Addl.   Revenues
Expenditures   Increase            Additional       as 2 Development
Revenues        Expenditures
Rp. bill               Rp.          Rp. bill
bill
1987188     189.3          -        36.8         -                  (19.42)
1988/89     203.0         7.22       56/0                           (27.52)
1989190     315.1        55.02       -           9.0                 2.9X
1990/91     347.5        10.32       -          25.5                 7.32
1991/92     451.5        29.92       -          58.5                13.02
1992/93     584.1        29.41       -         122.5                21.02
1993194     730.8        25.12       -         214.8                29.42
Pelita V   2429.0        29.2                  430.3                17.72
The preliminary financial projection, for Pelita V, based on the
level of development expenditures, shows an increasing rate of targeted of
additional revenues (3 percent in 1989/90 and 29 percent in 1993/94).
Targeted level of additional revenues for Pelita V is currently at
Rp. 430 billion,
1.7         Funding Alternatives
With the fundamental objective of 'balancing the budget" a 'base
case' funding alternative has been developed for raising the Rp. 430 billion
targeted level of additional revenues.



- 149 -
AMU1 7
lag. 6
This base case assumes a 60A10 debt to equity ratio of funding the
targeted level of addltional revenues. Key results of this scenario includes
*     Total development expenditures compared to borrowings:
Development
Esienditure       Borrowings         Borrowings
R4. bill          Rp. bill                2
Pelita V          2,429                  385              15.91
Repelita VI        7,353              1,528               20.8S
9,782              1,913               19.6S
Borrowings under this funding alternative increase by Rp. il2
billion or 85.4 percent from Rp. 213 billion to Up. 385 billion in
Pelita V.
Debt service compared to DSC & NBR:
Debt                     Percentage               Percentage
Service     DSC          UtilLsed     Nmu         Utilized
Rp. bill    Rp. bill         S         Rp. bill       I
Pelita V      69           306         22.52         1,025         7.01
Repelita VI  623           875          71.21        4,699        13.42
692         1,180         58.51        5,724        12.21
The highest level of DSC (82.4 percent) and NIR (14.3 percent)
utilized in Pelita V and Repelita VI is In 1998/90. NRk is net
routine revenues (local routine revenues, excluding Central
Gbvernment grants and subsidies less routine expenditures,
excluding debt service expenditure).



- 150 -
ANNUX 7
Page 7
*     Local revenue and PBB:
Local
Debt Service            Revenue  Total
Before  601   RIAP on         Total    & PBB    I Pre-RIAP
RIAPs   RTAP   402 borrowing  RIAP      Total    Revenue
Rp.     Rp.    Rp. billion    Rp.      Rp.          2
bill    bill                  bill    bill
Pelita V     2,913    258        18          276    3,18%      9.52
Repelita VI  6,338  2,278        417       2,695    9,033     42.52
9,251  2,536       435       2,971   12,222      32.1Z
Local revenue and PBB under this funding alternative increase by
Rp. 276 billion or 9.5 percent from Rp. 2,913 billion to Rp. 3,189
billion in Pelita V.
1.8         Potentil  Sourcea of Additional Fundint
Potential sources of additional funding are considered to includes
Revenue Improvement                  Cost Reduction and/or Saving
*     PRR                            f     Privatization initiative
of current DXI Jakarta
responsibilities
*     Local revenues                 *     Saving in levels of routine
m motor vehicle                     expenditures
registration
-  transfer of motor vehicle  *     Prioritization of expenditures
-  development tax                   (i.e. re-scheduled
implementation
-  advertising                      of expenditures to future
-  solid waste retribusi            years)
- development, inspection and
control licenses
- new tax/retribusi
*     Central Government grants
and subsidies
*     Borrowings
Local revenues & PBB initiatives will need to address
institutional, extensification (object/subject), and intensification
(administration/system) issues.



PIIUlilllEflGlUlE    L2-l!s  !!LOFl!fi}                                          ~~~~~~hp? I of 2
-76l114 V-  -'-4161    VI-                                                                                              199M0              19191to9W206
imno s  i9nm Ism 199     u           on M  am   MM  I" 1  IWUS7 IW97/SI I99319, TUTML. Wm1                                         STILt bsr pc
A. RHTtI AMES
Lade  In                             .3   390.9  455.6  51.2  619.3   2,32.3J   16.     722.1   901.9    9.7  1,144.7  1,33.9  1,025.3              6.3   1,55.0 6,914.3         16.61
M                                   64     9.3   1L.2  JX.4 US.             0.9   25.n   197.4    216.9    213,9    29.9   347.4  1,312.4    11.2            40.  2,2W.7         19.91
'_.   _4w,   _s-.  _Z.   _Wq              _~1-.   _o  _;-4i,                _.         _                 __ 
Sub TtalU M     Loal l2.7                  8.2   17.3    6.  79.9   2,913.2    1.2   91.4  1,05.   1,235.5  1,44.0  1,2.3  6,3;7.7                 1.31  1,93.211,214.0           17.21
=             Oralft              10.9   144.0  116.4  174.2  1l.7         799.2   10.02  210.8    231.9    20.1    20.6   306.7  1,297.1    10.01    339.5 2,425.7               10.02
Cwtyovnr Fm  Lat *r                56.0               -          -          56.0               -
Totdllinta elaon                   A.6    0.2        .2  943.6 97.    3,76.3   13.51,1303   1,290.7  1,49.5  1,722.2  1,91.   7,24.7                5.21  2,302.71,69.            14.6
LasI Ratio I     Eaodi            329.6   373.5    2.5   4.9  553.0   2,164.5   1.2  66.0    736.2             "9.4      0.1  1,130.3  4,354.1    IS.1   1,34.6  7,03.3           15.41
aut Bude                     6.1      3.6    9.9   11.   14.4        10.0   23.92   37.3       44.3     42.0      4.2    40.5    205.7                 39.3   295.9        20.5?
Total 5.5* SonIc, S Ratllo, Ep.  331.7   332.3  434.1   45 .51           2,211.3    4.0   67.6    730.1               1,021.3 1,171.3  4,40.3    14.71  1,344.1  ,e.              14.91
Trafm6  to lmlopat            t  212.9   247.9  294.7       6.4 4W.2   1,553.0   12.62   454.4    510.2    19.         700.9   619.7  3,684.4       L        91.7  5,596.l        14.52
3. flFNM AC
trasfr   frs Rtla  om       t    22.9   247.9  294.7  34.4 409.2   1530   12.61  414.4    50.2    199.1    7t.9   619.7  3,03.4    159                       99.7 5,19           14.32
Wm53 Gobt                          34.6    39.3   45.3   12.6  60.4        m.3   11.01   6 9         60.0      92.0    0L5S    121.7    469.2    15.01       140.0    02.5       1.02
, W  s- - u -7  -3 40 73 -zi-o 1U.,   ila--                                                           -   -
lam  for NC calcstatlam           297.1   297.7  540.5  401.0 469.7   1,136.3   13.11  124.0    190.3    S91.2    406.6   941.4 133,1.6             5.9S   1,099.6 6,436.6        14.3?                          U-
orrbl                              13.1    35.6   52.7   16.6  48.4        213.4   27.9    10.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      10.0               0.0   223.4
Toutl own  of D m       .t Fho    30.6   325.  S93.2  419.6 5s1.i   1,9-97    14.1   534.0    50.3    6.2    66. 9               41. 4    ,5 63.7    11.21   l,6.6 6,662.0       13.n
-- m- mm mm                        mm              -mmmm   -                                     mm                 mm 
RWLtMil  tF FMIB 
fanr   loatmbt                     31.2    1.7   l2.2    0.3$  n5.9        329.3    0.02   17.2       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      17.2               0.0   346.5
,Si  lretrea                      24.4   267.6  311.0  31.3  4462   1,670.4   12.91   1.            59"0.3    6.2    O6LS   941.4  3,4.5    16.2   1,099.6 6,3                   14.92
Pnmaduff h0    OF P   n    utgot 233.9   291.S  369.3  495.3  16.9   2,099.7   26.5   8.4  1,12.3  1,4037  1,744.3  2,S169.  7, 0    26.91  2,65.6 12,151.4                      25.21
Ta1w=   EL  IIF l tUDil            113 Illsl a
)                                 9      43.2)  1.)           212.7)   1429.31           32.4)  I1A5.0)  1712.5)  139.o01227.4)13,19.5)                 11,597.211J,715.9
1mlatv  for hlita 9              19.11   133.m )  192.1) (216.6)149.3)   1942)               -        -         -        *
g  at&tw for 5SUt R2 nl         I                                                       1372.61  9m6  (1.624.J) 12562.1)13,39.5) (3,9,5)               111,57 i2172I
Codumltv  for PaUta 911 - VW  I                                                                                                                                  I  ---M 
n     St ar bio  C lU)tr (nM)   43.    U41   1.1    0.1  70.5              267.9   135    73.6         .5    1UJ.7      2.    141.2    15.0    55.62    16S.3   90.3             14.31
Estiasted km1t AuroRa UIs           6.1      3.6    9.9   U.6  14.4          0.6   291   37.         44.3      42.0      41.2   40.      205.       I.7      39.3   295.9         .5
NUt  sSe  0u01,                   37.0    34.4   4.1   4LS   56.1         217.1   10.9    40.6      44.3      6.7       9.    10.7    32.3    25.32    12.5   6.9               13.0
t6   i   as I of M                 Ih41    20.a   1943   n.n  3.42          19.02           4.       1.42    4.st    34.1    29.n           .6               23.92   30.62
-                                                                                                            mmsmmw    cmmom                              nitsm m     po mml
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fi pr___I _



TKI - iiT                                                                 Tale I
mmbl-lim)                                                                                Pap 2 of 2
1. tMM Wulemi nUtlb nrWt w at ts I csdered a laisa.
2. ftmIjS of tI tcr sr freeM fiK4I yr df  Ill is  _a I1s1
fntlisimt                  I oef
bpd   ~kIls   turryr bAw
eJitt.   .3ifl.          P.S1t1,     I
V6.            _B0              .12.?     A
0                             24LI~~~.X1    WSi1             W.I "A
3. I991  mj Pelite V proeictd awae _eIt I lmes. it routas ad i _ue              t _mibtrs Is an  pls   d gutiely sivt              df 1a 1W apeibr, is am  wi
Pr,ileiuer               3 Imncras  0.                               Mite v
pRed   ctuai                    tad   Iva                                         Ast
_-  ll  1939             919        t1   I ase
Ilp.tifl.                                                                         t
o  A st. nits                          2b.4  23.9            3.4        19.1:  24.U                               15.4 
o Dmul_oetsWdits                       2.3  203.             3t1.1     2V."   Sft M2.3 3
Ttsu                              53.0   4.9             44.7 S     IX .3   0 U.U
4. Preecti   fr f ImWO rflect tl AM, sit tUs aspis of PM  reIowa. Is eatsis of M  billig, coltectius, ad mws Is bho ea tb attecld wrtbt.
5. 1d R tio r fw     prie      of MIl Jakarta,  w  tl prtJected Wiod, is iSsued  b   10 l Ce t W   _.1M.
U. keu  Dstic Predit (WI ftr OKI W trb It estietd tI b             e t  t   I W  _M, osr t   rojetd piod.
J. 10On19  to 190  U-eperatioul lessK ad sabsidies Is Local osret  terpise   Ml  is    -  to be oil.
U. Les re _wd to  e finuactially indep       t   Ut o M tl ta. MUP It b    i       rtiltur  we asw   to bI tlb nspoibility of lb  e ctin  Lots ad Wot Ol Jltat.
hlI  tetin  ad dltopet espendis of Ls       assme  to Is eaCded fra tb  ptuisiay (nucble  prejetiats
*. terrsuios a    earIed isstents e  baseduat w rnt estiates. %se, tbe pJeKties Is s.t iKrWal trog  Imea i99IM0tl                   t S   Fa's plictY iN rwet tl
S Sty ratio for des_pst   _ isdlee.
10.10t srice, be  pinctpal Sa  intert, has be   a           tI wtpartt    min  actuat.
Il t srkvice cpability of KIjatl   rta is calclated at IJ U of tU  tel of tfs trasfrd IrU t   estis Actcst   to tw helspet A                 pI" Us twa 1  rats.
i                                      aad to et imceselte                      I
-FFirmotis, e"      tC     tr% ltatie mi ltl,
*   - Policy ii respecl t Central keera  t1 sulsidies  *terasr
*Poticyis _ asaict b otER Ju Jt ba d ec t  setrice ad  r_lttleqeity deeslepeuth espssdituras ratls.
- lstsllait   eft esedlee base at revise a si*Ims e.g. eprale ad_ asistenc t iSP   sen
file, prejlatl*



&UINIVNT FIMKICIL 19911 OMi@ 
unOtieACCT                      -PE        LITA               -                      -4PP        E     L  I  tA   Vt -            -19991W                            I"1991199to 1999fl0
_____________            1959/90WI  199019 1991/9 1992/93199/9  on6 TOmA  mm51   194/9   19996  1996/9   I119/9  1991/99 W  TOTAL SETH               TOTAL  beare  groet gercetag
WIe booems                      335.3   390.9  455.6  531.2  619.3   2,33.    16.62  72.1   961.9    951.7  1,144.7 1,334.9  5,025.3    16.6   1,55.  6,914.3            14.6
P38                      £~~~~~~~~~6.4    95.3  115.2  131.4  165.6    560.    25.72  197.4    216.9    253.6    296.9   347.4  1,312.4    15.21    406.5 2,2019.7  19.91
sob Touta P3A Lout al Dvie      401.?   486.2  570.6  669.6  764.9   2,913.2   13.2  9;19.4  1,05.6A  1,23.5  1,441.6 1,66.3  6,35.7    1.31  1,96.2 11,214.0            17.22
teiratcloalau                                                                                                        -       --                                 -
bebUl,ls 6 gruts                130.9   144.0  116.4  174.2  191.7      79.    10.02  210.6    231.9    25.1    260.4   306.7  1,267.i1*0.01    339.5 2,42.7             10.01
Ceny-owe Fre Las leao56 5 6.                   0                        56.J--                                                                                56.0
!!~em -1                        M  .6   630.   729.2  64.6  976.5   3,766.3   13.51 1,130.3  1,290.7  1,490.5  1,72.2 1,991.0  7,624.7    151.22  2,30.7 13,6"95.        U.6
Targeed(1AJ
:60 I from FPI  Local boRSO    5.4    15.3   35.1   73.51  126.9    256.2  121.02  225.6    323.9    42.0    563.2   73.9  2,27.7    34.41    956.7 3,4941.6          67.91
401  ierroulap       -    ~~~~0.5    1.5    4.1   11.2    13.3           22.6    42.9      72.5    112.7   166.9    417.6             24.1   067.
Sob Total B I A p     5*4    15.6~3 369   73.3  140.       276-.5  125.    24.      366.0    3W 54    W 67.     90.   2,695.3    36.12  1,9.  4104           1
Tothal    I A?594.0   646.0  764,   92.1 1,116.6   4,044.6    7.2 .1,7.   1,617.   1,91.   3,396.2 2,194.7  10,120.0    20.41  3,501.5 17,666.                          19.42
After 3 14    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ **a=           =  02=*w'          -"So              -      emma.             aiu ee -         mam.              wasma. a.
(asI Ratu iosfpsetere           W.6   37.544.5  463.9  553.0   2,1645   15.41  462.0    73.2    6"49.                    ,3.    ,3.         15.41  1,304.t 7i1:l         I5.s
Les IDt levc    iesS              6.1    Mee,   9.9   11.6   14.4        50O.6   23.9    37.6    44.3     42.0    T:1.  '40.5    20673932.
* AiiftSpea) ureulags - 40 2  - 0.3    1.6    4.0   15.2     16.3           22.6    42.9      72.     112.7   166.9    417.6             240.1   676.0
Total  ebt erIc, After 310        6.1     9.3   11.7   16.    25.6      691             60.4    672    145        1.9 274          6337.4 971.9
Ttatl OMl"it al A lstlse lap.  335.7   332.6  436.3  50.3  576.    2,233.6   14.42  696.4    6234    963.   1,134.0 1,33.2  4,9517.9    17.72  1,164.2 6,77.7            16.61
maze..wft ma.em ae  m     "  =m ama..  .... ane       =am    smiaz    gaftzemo m-   a....   Mmam                           I___
triuferu  to Deslopeut Awmt  256.3   263.2  329.6  421.9  53.1   1,611.2   20.11  66.2   334.1  1,071  1,264.2 1,556.5  51,362.1    23.01  1,917.3 9,090.7              22.22                            -
113  WV FM5 I
Trensferadl free 3.11i. kat    21.3   263.2  329.3  42:1.  53.1   1,1.    26.12  66.2    634.1  1,027.1  1,264.2 1,556.1  51,362.1    23.01  1,917.3 9,090.7             22.22
MM42 Brats                       34.6    39.0   45.8   526      .      233.    15.02   69,6     60.0    912.0    105.6   121.7    469.2    15.02    140.0   842.5       55.01
laW  for Du ta)latluta          292.9-  303.0  375.6  -474.5  596.6   2,044.    19.6   749.6    91i4.2  1,11i9. 2  1,37.0 1,676.2  5,631.4    22.32  2,073 9,933.1       21.52
lerrelasp , Defer 31WP           16.1    35.6   52.7   56.6   46.4      213.4   27.91   10.0    -0.0    -0.0    06.0        0.0    1-0.0               0.0   223.
NWWrorrulls - 0 lOf tie
Targete I IA P               3.6    *0.2   23.4   49.0   65.9      172.1  121.01  156.5    215.9    265.3    37.5   491.2  11.5        34.42    639.1 2,329.7       67.91
Total foure of Uev.lopmewt Feeds  314.6   348.   41.7  56.1  7329   2,4301.0   23.51  910.3  1,130.1  1,404.   1,7315.5 2,169.5  7,35f98    24.23  2,696,4 12,486.3     24.02
WFLICATZN OFF111101
Earsrid lovestaut              31.2    55.7   62.2   83.3   71.9    329.3             17.2      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     17.2               0.0   346.5
heim"c Available for otter
pgraame  levetuuts           231.4   2931  369.3  493.8  661.0   2,109.7   23.61  6931  1,130.1  1,404.5  I,M45J  2,169.5  7,342.6    24.161  2,696.4 12,139.8       25.31
Ioetaeemts Pnrw            293.9   291.6  369.3  M9.11  656.9   2,099.7   26.62  669.4  1,129.3  1,403.7  1,744.6 2,166.6  7,336.0    26.91  2,695.3 12,131.4       25.22
TAISIE  LEVE WF AITIONAL REVENU  (TOM1. RiAPs3 
annul                          (0.0)    0.0    0.0   10.0)   0.0      (0.0)           (0.01     0.0      0.0    (0.01    0.0    (0.01                0.0   (0.01
152 Deb Sevice C~apability lose)   43.9    45.4   56.3   71.2   69.    306.7   19.63  112.5   137.1    167.9    M0.5   255.7    674.7    22.31    30.6 1,490.0          21.52
Estleate  Debt Serice Utilized    6.1     9.3   11.7   16.4   25.6      69.1   43.12   60.4    87.2    114.5    153.9   207.4    62.3    36.12    279.4   97.9          46.61
Debt Servics Not Utilited        37.6    36.2   44.6   54.8   64.2    23.6   14.12   52.1        49.9    53.4      51.6    44.4    251.4   -3.91      29.2   516.1      -2.62
Dit Service aol2 of OMC          13.92   20.42  20.I2  23.52  28.52      22.51          53.7n    63.62    66.22    74.91   82.42    71.3t            90.51   65.23
filie,potl.b



- 154-
, ,_,_,,,,,,,__,__ .............. . .. . ........... . .  .  ............. ........_ ._ .. ...  ___ ............ ........... __.___
jl~~~~~~~~~~~~ .- .... . ...--.--.i3..i
' } I   Wi  i S ,'-j          ' ~~     x =s    '.         =vi = ' I'
fii  !  !* y !t -!R!-! !!1ml .                                   di s*E,  lF -
s  E i iMEEl ! Mi; 30i  
L2            =22=1 _!l= q"41i R1
!  it3t  W  I-s!ll   i  ~~~~!             xm      !        I        I! 
: .          :iq  Qtlxz!!                  i'--                      !        i ;°-
F :  . . ....................................................................... ... ..... ... ...  . .......... . .... .-- - -.  -.-- -- - - --...--.. -
e~~~~~~~~~scs                                                A   i  i}5i!-!_  }i iSatz=  .g 
g S tiZi i a i ,= ,lS,,s.! .; , , j } ... j--, -.-,-,,- ---..,.,,-----<;- 0 I h Ze 0 i ; !u------------- -
BE>;,~~~           ~~~~ IFm                                                          Eq-X--1    ;R F !  ;:;F;-.5;
------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- - - - ---- - - .- -o--:-+-.----------.----. 
u^t~~~~~~~~m iF                                                     M.,  isiwj j   s         j 
a^#;r'.M !"1"!1 Fil !I'Ggiffii;i,""i lL
vIj a  E            i    -   |i.   
- g t ! ! i ! 1M                                   AZ -2w   !gi° 
! ----- -------|---+-------------- --  -- ---- .1 ...|                    ........ . .. .  -   ---   --------



UUITIYVIII mlii  *  -           EW         E          £  REVISE 9         3SI EwUIIU
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t       
_K______                  _                                    _______________                                Ii  IDEBT SERiCE Mn11Tr Vfls
o t   .m1113. Ip.bill. RA.111.   10.11.         W62. a6.b I 11!.    bo.UII.    op.bi11.                       1      9b.1111.       R.bUII.          I             t       t           t
|   i, 3111Z1'11                               '1   1                 I    'U                           II   IWI                    111   11   'II  11  11
IISW  cuE      2,426     45    1.62        4,1              436    4,W7        21             64                   S.u          96.6           267.1      36.lt          44      2.1       1.02
IEC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 B  7                                                                                                2EE 1 21
NW                                                   _
IUEI                 22 1 51 ,     !          I t        .313. Pp.313.          I        W111.    P.313. 96.3111.          96.l111.         Rp.1m.        I               t           t   I
r     2.4   11              1ml                11.1   11111   mu   i                                   tur      miii.    II  lil   ii 
4i tb   lu    t____________1ucmiuarzu w mltiam mi vvrn
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H
l ~~~~~~193990    199011                           199192  1923   199*9             PEjlV        199*9   1916           19917           199719    1999         ¶tV                  TUU
j  ~ ~ ~ ~~             3.3133.  96.3ill.         96.311!. 96.311.   96.11ll.       96i. 11   . Pp.13. 96.3131.         96.3133.        6.3133.  9.3111.                           96ll   .311.
0 DEIl         lt E111tU1     3.2           3.4    33.9    72.                             2,9           9.   1  9            1    7          jL@        2      =t.2
hwi                                        8|5                  128       2  t II:  5U:  ztt:  Ii    4; 39                  71i             93.i    1,223.1      S,,U8                 ,k 
Om27.1     61            111.2    19.1    2S3.2             143.7      36.3    539 2. 713.3                                                            193i  
799.2  L,16.1        6.9            9.9      11.6     14.4           1.6          37.6     4.3          42.3            42.0       41.2        26.1                23.9
}  { 7t *   X                      ~~~     ~~1.2   4.!     32.1      29.0           45.3        16.      U:j          a14:!          2l:        st: S0L                          li7 Bt?
TUTU. NIT 39102                    6.1|     10.0         II4.4        2.       42.04          9.6         94.3        199.4     2      t23W.7   322.9  4m.
Iota a |f|   ltfp B'    B 0emit.aE.il                     p         RMtiv M     0.t h       Eb   9                    i                                                     , I
XvR       Iminus              252        30.          '".         93.9   o72LSv  aeucat,ib                                                                oe,egEbe9.93111 h P1b



ok'NA"      WEILOR""'               I         LEWL       £91919  1990/91 1991/92 199/9  *993/94  PELITA V I2N             1990/9199/9  199/9m  1997/901 1998/9   UPETA VI  I                      1PM IIT I
Pp.sill                                                     Pp.113t Pp.3111  Pp.3111  Pp.3111  Rpm31   Pp.3113.     I      Ppm31.   Pp.31l) Pp.8113  Rp.m113P.311) Pp.311.              1       Pp. Pp.1111    I
203.0        IEVELM0iU  E1991T11                            315.1   349.2   452.3   5041.1   73.2   2,432.9        29.21    907.  1,129.3 1,403.7  1,790.8 2,160.8   7,354.0            24.51      9,70.      26.n
__________ ~INSTSM  LMV) U 40ITIOUL EVENEHI                 9.0    25.5    58.5   122.5   214.8        4110J     121.011   376.    539.6   713.3   933.7 1,228.1   3,762               34.41     4,226.5    72.72
____________  WIPL*71VEJ33~31 3.11   T  ~I9.0    34.5    93.0   213.1   042,                   40.3                 806.6 1,346.4 2,059.7 2,998.4 4,26.    6,226.                         4,226.1
N T M , MI KFORE  IN          1H:j 3#.j          f1    11:j  1 t1   2,J.1             181      113:1    VI.;   3.1:  142:  14j3..1   1:313:1               1tt!      1:3:       1!
30.3    ~ ~     ~      SI  111P3                     01.?   466.2   573.    669.6   73.9   2,913.2          M7.6     913.5  1,016.8  1,235.5  1,441.6 1,612.3   6,33.7           1.51      9,21.       1731
I    ifh   uk    mir m     ft    in            '!      11:1 ~1:1   'I.!   '¶3:1          21:1       121.1     21.I311:1 ~13:1   131:    1331   2,3.13                     11:1      2,1:1   .72.11
j   11. air                                    5.4    15.9    36.9    73.3  140.40        276.5              240.13   366.7   140.4   675.92  903.7    2,65.              4523      2,975.8
10731. LOCAL alms0  A P, NMI  P1w  is$)              407.1    02.   60?.?   7479,9131.0    5,1.19,           13,d1 3     167,9   ,456 1,76.  2,1175  2,156.    9,0330            22.111   12,22.?    22.5
14.2                    on593   air8 P1W1t1                         11:3    H1:      33:3    2:1       113:?      1IU       191&    215.9   255.    37.    491.i   ,3,1.1:             45.72      L,11       2.7
14.2         TOTE. Mafmf  , No IPW                        21.?    45.3    76.1   107.6   134.3       335.5       56.21    160.    212.9   23.3   375.    492 1,4   5 2m.5             29.41     1,914.0    42.511
~~ - """s' a                      '¶U~~~~~1:    '1P1:    11:2   111:3  'U:1    M:i  ~     1:1      211:!.  12:2   2p1:2   In:j        311     1j~jjf                     2,W.: j    .3
161.6                                                       165.5   153.3   204.2   226.3   25.2   1,032.5          9,31    230.4   331.9   347.1   166.4   430.4   1,756.2             11.51      2,76.7    10.33
3                      ~~~~---.--.AP,----                                                                                                                                                          -     
-161.6         MLl. 11831t15    IhImm, MI0Wm ai             105.5   36.3   204.2   226.0   25.2   1,032.             OX3    280.4   311.9   W.1   336.4   430.4   176211.51                        2,78.7    10.3
524.1 1          U MAL ESM NM RIANP1                    159.3   13.6   383.0 11,382.3 71,-3131 7.5 46-07.           20.11  1,40.6 1,5.4 2,.4   4 2    ,3U.4   4  3,10-7.7  12,31.7.      21.n8    16,975.4    16.1t
.   ......... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              - - -    0
6.2                        ~~~~Bu IN 1               6.1     3.3      9.9    11.6    14.4       10.6       13.41     37.3    44.3    42.0    41.2    40.        205.           23.02        256.6    20.62
titu       1 .0.1                                      1.8     4.8    11.2       11.                           1:       11       1     nl:       1:             24.42      ___
23.9         TIT  038     WMIURE (ThAEI,MTI  519    335.7   33.3   436.2   100.3   578.6   2,233.6                 57.0     69.4   32.4   963.  =1,13.  1,333.    4,57713                         7191%.3    I7.6a
MDT SEIIUS.1S  nS.31
121:3U 311  51'.?Vmai                                       31:1  311  INA3:                #1 311 113:   l:W:    U:   NH1  WI. 1,?J R ,1 1,233L :1 1,0    .I1:1   IA.-$  H
3:2          flU   ll!  I II El:  M OV.19IE,                HA       mkI :1 11-2:1   35              :2    193:1 i,33II3:1!    3:1 1:3        :1   ,ff:B    -,51   3:13:               1:1       1:B1i       VA1
ft:1l        ii         I IUIIIl  1   : "Win                3:41    81 1:2    :1l    .I       PA 11:11   :f       d:l1      iLI    33:!  Ml           32:1    3:3!    RI1              AI'       1aLl9
H:3 j 3  1E1, I1II111: 11ta!11                        Is      :1!       :!3:1    139   3:1        H:1 ~     1: 1:        2 I 1 J:1    a?:1l 3:1 i    s -IN       -  :H ,         AIR
ihI W   a1~W.F    .ctal K3 iri, wi314                     Lput : diet ~A grants) Irn Rotine E,oem&tuwu I.cludimq debt service).                                                                   "9 



N. j
Jj         111116i 'il*                            II
ix  s!   0021!i§§  i  itg   ik sgil
I-                                                        :'          iSsl*103 2,,fiXijb|1  i  



- 158 -
Bogrr                               THIRD JAOtABlE   ~   DEVELOPUEI  PROJECT          ASX   7
Kabupat. Sogor Fineancil Projeclions             Table 7
Rp. Ml lItore 
1989J90  199/91  1991/92  Il"/9$  1998194  1994/9S    TtaWl
SCES OF PMD
Routine Account
Lot.i taxes & Charge                   11044    18268    1508    I904    22901    27481   10966
Assigned Revenue. (P68)                  61      4271     4954     6747    G6M7       7788    88055
Subsidies A Grante                      4057     4544     5089     5700    Oa4        7160    82928
Total Routine Revenues                 16781    22068    25S47    8O5U8    8$591    424   176044
Lao Routine Expenditure.               12017    186S5    15588    17481    19744    22176   10009
(nt of debl ervice)
Trrnsfer to Development Account         6707 W    418    10414    18050    16207    20185    74976
Development Account
Trensfered from Routine Account         6707     8418    10414    18060    16207    20186    74976
Inpres Grants                            0626    10821    11655    10785    11195    12052 m   6526
Borrowing - ADS                                   a84      826      290        52     s181     2877
Borrowing - IBRD                                  125      608     1574      142B      581     4481
Total Development Funde              15385    19258    28107    26648    28662    8c024   147840
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Earmarked Investmnts:
I) KIP/CHIP                                     214     1874     2698     2444       909     7684
tt) Other existing Comitments          8472     1902    2572       448      S17     2646    11562
Debt Service:
1) KIP/CHIP                                      87       7S      281      406      521      1270
tl) Other existing Comeitmonts                    18       50      107      126       218      517
BalneO Aval lablefor other
Unprogrimed Investments            1168    17068    19126    22174    2587    80786  126866
15s Debt Service Ratio (DSR) 1/                  1262     1562     1957     2481      8026
Comitted                                           64      125      889       8s5      784
Debt Servic  as X of DSR                            4X       6X       17X      22X      24X
Additional Borrowing Capacity                    9784   11564    18049    15266    18491
Notels
1/ total local revenue and PBS low routine expndltures net of SDO.
2/ Aesames 2 yers grac, 15 year repayment at 9.253 Iterest.
8/ Cost recovery on hom  Improvement and micro-enterprise loan  not Included



- 159 -
toner                               Tn=  JABOTABEK IMB   OEVELUEN  PROJECT           AWE  7
Kabupeten Tangerau Flnancial Projections         Table 8
Rp. mIl I ons
100/00  1990/01  1991/92  1902/93 1M/94  1994/96    Total
SII*eES OF RIS
Routins Account
Local taxes & Cherges                   088    11200   18417    1671    1925        2806     0216
Assigned Revenue  (8)                   8000    U60      4820    5184    0221        7465    29790
Subsidies & Grnt                        8068    1450       9       4406     4907     1626   26409
TOtal Routine Revenue                  15406    1820   21685   2M660    60468   86168  1476B2
Les Routine Expendltures                964    11958    14790   1826T    22661    26851   106787
(net Ot debt service)
Tranfer to Development Account          5712    627       6845    7839      772      7607   41625
Oevelope"nt Account
Transfored from Routine Account         5712    OM0?    6845       7898    7772    7807    41825
InPrOe Grants                           6876     5962    6260      678    60902    7246    86821
Borrowing - Domestic
BorrNing - IBiD                                   126      754    1264      1204      548    8S0
Teotal DOevIopent FUnds              11890   12867    18095   15250    1S66    15506   84850
APUCATION OF FUND
Earmarked Investmente:
1) KIP                                         217     1276    2176      2040      921    6682
11) Oter xisting Comitme              5876    S64      5927    6228    0585       6681    86517
Debt Services
1) KIP                                          6        609    205       850      462      1106
tl) Other existing Comltmants           1        is        0        0        0        0       s0
Balance Avellablefor other
Unprogramed Invstmnts               5990    6477    6565    6O6         G        7862   40022
15X De  Servlce Ratio (DIR) 1/                   944    1027       1109    le1    1171
Comitted                                           48      69      205       60       452
Dt Service as X of OSR                             56       7X       16       80X      8
Additonal Borrowing Capactty                      80        20    7267    67         5798
Notes:
I/ total local revnus  nd PB les  routine expeeiturs net of SW.
2/ Assms 2 yeert grace, 15 yesr repeysst at 9.25  iterest.
8/ Cost rwcovery on hom  Improvement end micro-entrprie  loans not Included



- 160 -
ek.                                TNIRD JASOTAS   URBN DEVELOPMENT PROCT          AIM   7
Kabopaten Bokeol Financlal Projections          Table 9
Rp. MIl lI ons
199/9  1990/91  1991/92  199/8  1998/94 1994/96   Total
SONICES OF FRS
Routine Account
LoAcl taes A Charge                    444    s511s    5680   6e72    7S7    981   89
Assigne  Reovnues (Po)                 296      866      4217    5126    61s0    7184   29151
Subsidies & Grant.                     8252    8642    4079    4669    5117         5781   28891
Total Routine Revenues                1064   12814   14176   1646    1904    22198   94850
Los Routine Expnditures                7960    848    9895   2092"   12175   18568   8887
(net of debt service)
Transfer to DOve lopmnt Account        2704    8466     4282    5580    899    6829   81479
Development Account
Transfered froe Routine Account        2704    8466    4262    6580    6809    9629   81479
Inprs Granet                           4080    4284    4496    4728        4959    520T   2771
Borrowlng  Domestic
Borrowing - Me5                                  128      680    1e80         1480   550    4818
Total Devlopmwnt Funds               6784     7876    910   11868   18807   14M86   68848
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Earmarked Investments:
t) KIP                                         214    1890    272       2477      921     770
ii) Other existing Ceoltmnt            595
Debt Servise:
1) KIP                                           8       77     289      420      589    1814
T) Other xistingComitmsnts                        0       0        0        0        0        0
Balance Avalablefor other
Unprogremd Investments             8189    726    814         9916    10410   12926   51209
151 Debt Service Ratio (DSR) 1/                  620      642      680    1080    1294
Comtfted                                          s        7       289      420      589
Debt Service as   ofSR                             7       12%      291      41%      421
Addtional Ibrror ing Capacity                  8g        458    4756    4916         090
Notes:
I/ total local revenues os P   les  routine expenditure  not of M.
2/ Assums 2 rer. grace 15 per repayment at 9.25* interest.
8/ Cost rcowvry on bom  improvement *nd micro-enterprise loans not uicnluded



IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I , .;   }} / -  g  |  i1,         §l  1,    li} |i!I r
W            .  ..... . . . . . . .   ...........   ..... . .. .................. 
191~~~~~~~~~         1
f 1  }1    X'_;illle   - W|               -  -t               1 
I~~i      U ~               i   hIin       I    I"#W; 
I     o      O      _i                          III-;_         _             r  t 1
^        t   ~~~f  if i! 'H   
-'                          u1u .           fI              s
~~~~~XsAa~~~~~~~~~~~~
......   ......   ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.
f~~~~i If I
- 191--



s           - -- -H- ------------
a i g I l i  a                          a  P  S0?       0 0   0 t
gT-~~~~      ~~~           -| -~ -~ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - -  - I-
|   o   o   o    oooo                 0                 0 0   0
:j ;v;                                                                          t r    ii 'S ;, g   -l  ^
-      - -        - -      - - -      - -        - -       -0   - 0 -@0  - - - -        -    -    -
0:#0; """   oop   op  ppo         pp   ,p.
@   0                             a 0    a          v:j            I
I  ~~~~~                     0       00              00
Bi-   -- - - - - - - - - -                     .- -i
:   :1::: 0o00 .                    *  5  o     05 0  @  0 0   ..
,  °               C0   0   e0*     * 4
a~~~~ -          -   -   -   - ________________ -   - __ -                                                        



-163-
THIRO JABOTABEK URIBN DEVElPMENT PROJECT
IWLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1990     1001     192       1t       1904     1906      1096
Keepi   1prov.mat Program
SIteh 1 -10 kelu'ahan    -c  c  c c c c c c c  c e-
-p p p p-       _ -
Batch 2- 20keluraban                -ceccccccecoccc-
-eeo  e.eeee.e..eae   ee.--
Ibatch 2 - ao k lur hxkn            -e        c        a a c     a ae  c  e e o e-
-p p p p-     *  _-
Batch 8 - 20 kelurshan                       -c           C C  c     C C  a C C C  e c  -
-ooeeeeeeoeeeeeeoeee----)
p p p p-  U    _-->-
Satch 4-t2C x urahan                                  -e e CCe ceeeec ceecC-
-**--o.o-*o*..oe -a>
Priority Solid Waste
Roouro.   Recovery                      <xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxhxxxxxxxxxxxx)
Secondary Col lction
- KIP Aram                     <XXXXXXXXRzxxxxxxxhKxxxxKxxxxx>
- Priority Flood Aros exx%xxxxx>
Cleaning up Informal Dumps           <xxxxxxxxxxxsxxxxxxx>
Cloolng Down Lanl IeII               <xxzxixxxxxxxxxxxxx>
Pollution Control
Institutionl Strengthening           <Xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Pollution Control Equipt.       <xxxxxxzxxxxxx)
Pollution Control Strategy       (xxxxxxxxxxxxKxxxx>
Ind/Nabardous Wste                4xxxxxxxxxxxxx>
141h PolI.Smll-scal- id.         <xxxxKxxxxxxxxx>
Urban Spatial mangemant
JI   update Uxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx>
Fring Area Planning                        <xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx    Koy for KIP:
Updting 8o0tbek date 1Se                   <xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx)
C C C   Cotmnity org.nlzatlon and socioS devlopment
IpMAOntotion of Improv4d 0N                                      E E E   Economic dwelopumt
P P  P   Physical Investment
01 Jakartn                        <xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx>) 1 1  M1  Maintenance and consolidalon
Iotabek                           (xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI



- 164 -
ANNEX 11
INDONESIA
THIRD.JABOTAMEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Estimated Disbursement
------------------------------------
Semester                           Cumulative       Profile a/
Semester   Ending            Amount     Amount                  ( (Cum 1)
…--------------------------------------------------------------------__------_
1      12190              3.0         3.0             5          6
2      06191              0.7         3.7             6         11
3      12191              1.8         4.5             9         20
4      06192              3.4         8.9            15         29
5      12192              4.4         13.3           22         40
6      06/93              8.2        21.5            35         52
7      12193              8.2        29.7            49         62
8      06194              7.3         37.0           61         73
9      12194              7.1        44.1            72         79
10      06195              6.7         50.8           83         85
11      12195              4.7        57.5            91         90
12      06/96              3.8        59.3            97         95
13      12196 bl           1.7        61.0           100        100
a/ Urban Sector Profile for Indonesia
bi Loan Closing Date



"|11 [3III g   rw11*1           - a -[{ -1wsi
4                         S.                *.  8
:~~ ~ ~~ lst                                       13W°tsu lsaa
111            8         8S1                         :18w    fl;"



s.u q r  g                                                            MOI|SI I    lIIO|    d
en
'-4
e.IO dIN~:1=N                              2811        4  I
-12 -tS dDI -   -    -   -f  --    -      -a 
I                                       I
lRK-lul 4-1-d                           mm .
Gl___---   __a__ mm                                                  _____V mom



- 167 -
ANX14
Page 1
INDONSIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJET (JUDP IIf)
Sugervision PlIn
Bank Supervision InDut
1.          The staff inputs in the table indicated below are in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of quarterly progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence,  etc.   These routine requirements .are
estimated to be about ten staff-weeks during FY 1991, and approximately six
staff-weeks per year from FY 1992 to FY 1994, and four staff-weeks per year
thereafter.
GOI's Contribution to SuErvision
2.          Progress reports will be submitted as follows:
(a) generally following the format being used for Ln. 2932-IND (First
Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP I);
(b) on a quarterly basis and within 45 days of the end of each quarter
with the first report for the period July through December 1990 due
by February 15, 1990;
(c) prepared by JUPCO using inputs from all Implementing agencies.
3.          Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of
JUPCO.   Review meetings with the participation of representatives of all
implementing agencies will be held three times a year in February/March,
June/July, and October/November. The meetings will be chaired by the Chairman,
Bappeda, DKI Jakarta, and will be attended by a Senior Representative of DGCK,
responsible for overall project oversight by the Central Government.
4.          JUPCO will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
Supervision missions and for providing information requested by missions.



- 168 -
ANNEX 1A
Page 2
Table 1: BANK SUPERVISION INPUT
Approximate                                Expected Skill                Staff
Dates          Activity                Requirement                    Inputs (SW)
7-8/90            Supervision Mission     Community Development          4.0
(Project Start-up)      Solid Waste Management
Sanitation Technology
11-12/90          Supervision Mission     Community Development          7.0
(Project Launch         Environmental Protection
Workshop)             Solid Waste Management
Engineering/Sanitation
Technology
Procurement/Disbursements
Urban Planning
4/91              Supervision Mission      Community Development         3.0
Small-scale Credit
Solid Waste Management
11-12/91          Supervision Mission     Community Development          6.0
(Annual Program         Solid Waste Management
Review)               Environmental Protection
Urban Planning
Financial/Program Planning
Project Coordination
Engineering/Procurement
3/92              Supervision Mission     Community Development          3.0
Small-scale Credit
Solid Waste Management
1992-1996         Two to Three            Community Development          Selectively
Supervision Missions    Solid Waste Management         6.0
per year (last one      Environmental Protection       reducing to
to prepare PCR)         Urban Planning                 4.0
Infrastructure Maintenance
Management
Program Planning and
Management



-169-                           ANNEX 15
INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents for the Project Pile
1.    -  The following documents are available on the project file:
(a)  Project Preparation Report, KIP, P.T. Encona/Alpin'Consult-Columbus
Systems Ltd., March 7, 1989
(b) Governor's Decree No. 814, Annex 2 April 1989 as amended.
(c) The Kampungs of Surabaya, John Silas, Municipality of Surabaya,
October, 1988;
(d) DKI Jakarta Revenue Improvement and Financing Project/PBB
Enhancement Report. Price Waterhouse Urvick, September, 1989.
(e) Botabek Municipalities Financial Capabilities Review. P.T.
Indoconsult. March, 1989
(f) Health Study for the Jakarta Poor: Protocol. London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, October, 1989.
(g) Study on the Operation and Maintenance of City Infrastructure.
DGPUOD. October, 1989.
(h) Planning Programing and Budgeting for Urban Infrastructure
Development, Operation and maintenance in Jabotabek. Department
Dalam Negri, Ministry of Home Affairs. July, 1989.
(i) Study on Solid Waste Management System Improvement Project in the
City of Jakarta in Indonesia, Final Report, November 1987, Japan
International Cooperation Agency.
(j) National Solid Waste Management Strategy, Ministry of Public Work's,
Directorate General of Human Settlements, Directorate of
Environmental Sanitation, PT. Bumi Parasidi in association with
Beture Setame and Trans Asia-URS International, March 1989.
(k) Priority SWM Component Studies, November, 1989, Pt. Askonin
Engineering Nanaggala Pratama.
(1) Regional Government Policy in Coping with City Cleanliness, DKI
Jakarta, Cleansing Department, August 1989.
(m) PT. Arkonin Engineering Manggala Pratama; Resources Recovery and
Institutional Development Pilot Project, November 1989.



INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (JUDP III)
Garbage Accumulated in Drain
Temporary Garbage Disposal on River Bank



171 -
Community Hydrant under Construction
Labor at Work on Drain Improvement



Latrines built over Drain Needing to be Dredged
Side Drains Non-functional - Lower than Main Drain



173 -
Pool of Primary Collection Vehicles for Solid Waste
i                                        O
Informai Open Solid WRaste Site



IBRD 2213')
JA VA   SfEA         - --  UNGPRIO
0  2    ~4   8,           10
KIWLMETER
I N DO0N E S I A
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT O UDP III)
PROPOSED PROJECr SITES
IZ AREAS IMPROVEDUNDER PREVIOUS PHASES
-.-RIVERS
-    DaK.I. BOUNDARY
FA& )  v    )
I~aa'epk JUE  lf



IBRD 22131
\  ~~~~~~~    ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J A V A S  E A     |  V    
JAOOMP            JV          E
|AVA                 /          EA                              -                      <                      <    r    Pw    <>    0 JAWA SM ,
~~~ ~JAWA TENGAH .~
->                        -,_02                                                                                                                   t ~  JAWA?IRA
C  . \  I   RY//~~ I   ,)u-4Gi/                               >        <            )  TRJABOTABBEjK  URBJADN DEV}ELOPMENT
THIRD         PROJECT  D   (JUDEP IIIA
JJ\ ;'\SX    AK((    IU   /-XKAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
/1O\w.-b* tq          Oompeo  )                      i                                                        Z/  I  [Ii] mao ) FINANCED KAMPUNG IMROVEMENT PROGRAM
9   _   .2z    >  .;   1 ! , i \      |         4        X        X     \                         m  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ADS NNCGKAK   WOVMNT RCRM
)                                             sogo<    i';''"'                                                                      5108,5,  0 f7    < )RNR
-        --                                          -,'                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SEL.ECTED V.N
{-                                 jX ' / . \ j / i%\ ) V t /JABOTABEK BOUNDARY
t s - / 8 \ . ; ! ) ............. < ............ t;,_ -,,,_,, (  O.KJI. JAIKARTA BOUNDARY
d       ()v_40  T
MAY 1900



IBRD 22132
J A A                            S FA                                                                                                     J A WA                -
-Et  -                                                          .  \   \       / x            _                       - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAWA BARAT/
(v-     )  3THIRDJAWTEOAN DEN
/-A"~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
THIRD JABOTABEKPOLLUTN            U N D L SM IN A
PROJECT (JUDP III)
POLLUTION CONTROL AND SOLID WASTE PROGRAM
D                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRIAL AREAS WITH POTENTIAL FOR
JOINT COLLECTION AND TREATMENT
E    CONCENTRATION OF SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES
PROOSED SITES FOR EHAZARDOUS WASTE
DISPOSL AND TREATMENT
Q  ERSTING GARBAGE DUMP SITES TO BE CLOSED
.  I 8ewr  &  z   ------'   -;-         R h   Z  EToANJIR CANAL - CONCENTRATION OF WASTE DUMPS
'I                 ~~~~~~TO RE CLEANED
t   .'   (    '                                       ,,    ,___,  ,,    _ /                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
A                                               ; _.                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
1 X S <X, (                                                                                                                                            IA80TAIEK BOUNDARY
NI.
0a  -..                   ' _,o_'~''J'  
wdnsa9 vA, --- 
0o   S        15     i 2 0         25
to8cndung                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMEIRSE
MAY 1990



IBR.D 2213.
e  XAA            /A\Vm  SEp                                                              JAVA    5-A -ANJUNG  PRIOK                                                         1BRD2
-                         ~~~~~~~G4TE
JA WA                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO M5TgIC TI ON
:~~~~~~~~~~~~
ItILD'kAN, OCEAN-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
L0     2       4       6      8       10
fU1omETER
IN  DON  ES IA                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAKUNG RAME
I N D   O N E S I A                                                                 '--gk TREA TR6TMEANT PANR
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (UDP 111)
LINKAGES WITH SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (UPD 11)
JUPD Ill:
=      / I KMWUNG IMPROVEMENT 9IES                  CISADANE TREATED
JUPD II:
EXCAVATION AND IMPFOVEMENT OF CANAIS
PFMARY PWElINES (WATERs               SESRPONG 
WATEI TREATMEW FRANT1S                                   WATER
INTAKE PUMfPIN      (UNDER C0NSUCTIN)                                                 y /
SETAION                                                                                                                ;;:;Pma  abo,fOOdb
EXISTING:               (UNDER C    UO                                                                                                               0 / /  ,    " Me
-       ERIMARy Pjmj                                                                 I                                                                        Ia fosy .t
TATMENT PIANFS                                                        )t
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cp~    Th d\)t%oeornoal,ff,
a   oapdo not Ano&j a, Vlo
:-D.K BOIUNDAREY                                              \
auzf bv&waIwII
JUNE 1990



