Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20662-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(26860; 32460; 3246A; 3246S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 61 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
1 Rp = US$ .0001413
US$ 1 = Rp. 7075
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPEDALDA I          Provincial Enviromnental Impact Management Department
BAPEDALDA II         Local Environmental Impact Management Department
BAPPEDA              Regional Planning Agency
CBEC                 Community-Based Activities Dealing with the Economic Crisis
CEG                  Community Environmental Grant
Dinas Kebersihan     Public Cleansing Authority
Dinas Perumahan      Public Housing Authority
DKI                  Daerah Khusus Ibukota (Jakarta Provincial Government)
EIRR                 Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOI                  Government of Indonesia
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
(Ja)botabek          Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang, Bekasi (Metropolitan Jakarta)
JICA                 Japan International Cooperation Agency
JUDPI, II            First and Second Jabotabek Urban Development Projects (Lns. 2932, 3219-IND)
JUPCO                Project Coordination Unit in DKI Jakarta's BAPPEDA
Kabupaten            Incorporated District
KIP                  Kampung (urban neighborhood) Improvement Project
Kotamadya            Incorporated Municipality/City
MCK                  Public Sanitation Facility
MHT                  Mohamat Husni Thamrin, as KIP is known in Jakarta
NGO                  Non Governmental Organization
O&M                  Operations and Maintenance
PAM JAYA             Jakarta's Water Utility
POMMS                Performance-Oriented Maintenance Management System
Prokasih             Clean River Program
RW                   Neighborhood with some 500 families (rukun warga)
RT                   Neighborhood grouping of about 40 familes (rukun tetangga)
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
TOR                  Terms of Reference
Tribina              Three-part (Physical, Economic, Social) Development Policy
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:   Mr. Mark Baird
Sector Director:   Mr. Keshav Varma
Task Team Leader:   Mr. Daniel Hoomweg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3246-IND)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      11
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                             31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  45
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                    46
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                  51
Annex 10. Brief Discussion of Slum Upgrading Activities                                54
"Before and After KIP": Photographs of Sites Improved by the Project
Maps:
IBRD 22131R
IBRD 22132R
IBRD 22133R
IBRD 30970
IBRD 30971
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003977                                      Project Name: THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Daniel A. Hoornweg                          TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Tye: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT   L/C/TFNumber: 26860; 32460; 3246A;
PROJECT                                                      3246S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: US - Urban Environment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/06/87                                Effective:                   03/13/91
Appraisal:  10/21/89                                 MTR:
Approval:  07/17/90                               Closing:  12/31/96           12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOI/Ministy of Settlement and Regional Development
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Attila Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                               Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager:      Keshav Varma                              Lars Jeurling
Team Leader at ICR:   Daniel Hoomweg                          Stuart Whitehead
ICR Primary Author:   Daniel Hoomweg
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=Higb, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
During the mid- 1980s, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) introduced the concept of Integrated
Urban Infrastructure Development Programming (IUIDP), grouping under a single umbrella: urban
transport, water supply, sewerage and sanitation, drainage and flood control, solid waste management and



kampung (neighborhood) improvement (KIP) investments. Due to the large size of the Jakarta metropolitan
area, known as Jabotabek (Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang, Bekasi), it was deemed too ambitious to undertake
activities in all sub-sectors under a single IUIDP project. Thus the activities were divided into three
projects. The first Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDPI, Ln. 2932-IND) covered urban
transport; the Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDPII, Ln. 3219-IND) dealt with water
supply and sanitation, flood control and drainage, and the Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project
(JUDPIII, Ln. 3246-IND), dealt primarily with KIP and solid waste management, and to a lesser extent
urban spatial management and monitoring, and infrastructure maintenance.
The project's original objectives were "to assist GOI efforts in Jabotabek: (a) to introduce a more
effective and sustainable approach to provision of basic services, through extensive community
participation and incorporation of social and economic development in recognized low-income
communities; (b) to strengthen environmental protection and pollution control in the Jakarta region; and (c)
to improve maintenance of existing infrastructure networks, and provide a firmer basis for planning future
development priorities."
As the third project in the IUIDP series, the objectives of JUDPIII were fully consistent with GOI's
priorities and the Bank's strategy. They were also consistent with, and built upon, previous urban projects
in Indonesia. JUDPIII's flexible design enabled it to respond to existing conditions and reflected the manner
in which urban services were provided in Jabotabek, i.e., crossing many jurisdictions and requiring support
and coordination from numerous agencies. The Bank's encouragement of greater community involvement in
basic service provision was sound and was confirmed through project implementation. Following
experience in previous projects, the third objective "to improve maintenance of existing infrastructure", was
important, but substantive improvement may have been unrealistic to expect through a single, nationally
executed study.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Following the 1996 Jakarta floods and responding to GOI's request, an objective was added to
improve storm water drainage in Jakarta. The component was consistent with the SAR and previous Bank
activity in Jakarta which suggested that flooding was a major problem for the city's poor residents.
Addition of this objective did not amount to a restructuring. It was approved at the Director level and
likely reported in the Monthly Report to the Executive Directors.
3.3 Original Components:
Cost         Rating
KIP (Kampung Improvement Program) $58.4 m        S
Solid Waste                       8.4 m          S
Pollution Control & Env Mng       4.6 m          S
Urban Spatial Management          3.9 m          S
Infrastructure Maintenance        0.9 m          U
Project Coordination              1.2 m          S
The components were well integrated and related to achieving the project's objectives. The first
two, KIP and solid waste, were especially well focused to provide assistance to residents in poor kampungs.
Pollution control activities were well targeted to Jakarta's critical enviromnental laboratory which is a
prerequisite for monitoring industrial pollution. Technical assistance (TA) studies for environmental,
urban spatial, and infrastructure management activities which spanned the entire Jabotabek region were
believed to be best implemented by national ministries. The TA was intended to assist the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) in developing practical programs and management capacities to address the region's
- 2 -



broader environmental and spatial management requirements. More emphasis on ways to implement the
recommendations may have been warranted, although assurances were given by GOI during project
preparation that this would occur. Price contingencies of $14.6 million and physical contingencies of $5
million were included in the project cost estimates; these costs did not materialize.
3.4 Revised Components:
Cost           Rating
KIP                               $54.6 m         S
Solid Waste                        5.2 m          S
Pollution Control & Env Mng        4.5 m          S
Urban Spatial Management           2.9 m          S
Infrastructure Maintenance         0.9 m          U
Project Coordination               1.0 m          S
Drainage Works                    11.2 m          S
The additional drainage component was a practical response to the flooding that occurred in 1996.
The activity could provide immediate and much needed relief to kampung residents, and DKI Jakarta's staff
capacity and financial commitment to counterpart funds was sufficient. By excluding areas that would
require resettlement and ensuring that sub-projects were consistent with previous drainage master plans, the
works were realistic and could be implemented relatively quickly. Completion within the one year
extension originally proposed was possible; however this was very optimistic and the 1997 economic crisis
caused serious delays. A total of US$6,444,861 was canceled from the original $61 million loan on
November 26, 1998 and December 13, 1999.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry was satisfactory. Preparation was extremely thorough, and very
comprehensive components were prepared and presented in the SAR. The objectives fit with the Bank's
overall urban strategy in Indonesia. All risks that were identified in the SAR were valid and were
successfully mitigated through the measures proposed. All local and external risk assumptions proved
reasonable. The wide currency fluctuations and political uncertainties brought on by the 1997 Asian Crisis
were beyond the scope of the preparation team's practical assumptions.
The complexity of the project, with key activities allocated to three national ministries and four
local governments, required a competent coordinating agency. Simplification of the highly prescriptive
design of the KIP component, and more focused key objectives, may have permitted easier monitoring,
coordination, and adaptation. However, as exhibited by the high quality leadership in Bekasi, component
design was secondary to the positive attitudes of government officials.
The Bank's environmental and involuntary resettlement safeguard policies were identified and
programs developed which were easily observed throughout project implementation. The project's key
focus on improved services to the urban poor was consistent with both the government's and the Bank's
priorities (as outlined in previous and existing Country Assistance Strategies (CAS)). The relatively large
contingencies were realistic and consistent with other similar projects, even though the funds were not
eventually required. The project's overall coordination and its relationship with JUDPI and JUDPII were
discussed thoroughly, but in hindsight, implementation would have benefited from clearer terms of
reference and overall reporting mechanics, especially as it related to the role of JUPCO. (This is consistent
with the findings of the ICRs for JUDPI and JUDPII.)
- 3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is rated satisfactory as it achieved most of its objectives and the development impact
was significant. The project's key objective -- to introduce a more effective and sustainable approach to
providing basic services through community participation in low-income communities -- was successfully
achieved. The community-based activities developed through the project became a model for the rest of
Indonesia. The project provided immediate and tangible assistance to Jakarta's poor, many of whom were
seriously impacted by the economic crisis which hit in late 1997. DKI Jakarta is also now much more
willing to enter into more comprehensive poverty alleviation programs and has now expressed interest in
dealing with squatter settlements originally excluded from JUJDPIII.
About 2.5 million people are estimated to have benefited from KIP activities. Based on the
beneficiary survey, in Jakarta, municipal water supply coverage in participating kampungs improved from
16% in 1990 to 36% in 1996 and reliance on water vendors decreased from 22% to 5%. Access to
sanitation facilities improved from 88% in 1990 to 98% in 1996, although the overall quality of wastewater
treatment in the urban areas of Indonesia still remains low. Localized flooding was reduced from 45% in
1990 to 34% in 1996. (The major flood protection works completed in 2000 have not yet been tested by a
major storm event). Solid waste dumping on vacant lands was reduced from 13% in 1990 to 1.4% in 1996,
and dumping in rivers was reduced from 5.4% to 3.8%. A 6% improvement in containerized waste
collection is estimated, although overall satisfaction in the service remains below 50%. A similar 200
household survey carried out by the IHS, Jakarta and the Australian Housing and Urban Research Institute
in Kampungs Melayu and Tanah Tinggi, Jakarta in 1999 (Annex 8) found less overall improvement in
service delivery improvement, e.g. 50% did not have access to municipal water supply.
The second objective of strengthening environmental protection and pollution control was largely
achieved as the DKI Jakarta environmental laboratory now routinely monitors up to 5,000 industries per
year. Staff capacities are generally satisfactory as well. Nevertheless, overall environmental conditions did
not demonstrably improve because the projects individual interventions were overwhelmed by regional and
country-wide events. Environmental improvements through better solid waste management were not
realized, because the scale of the region's solid waste needs overwhelmed the project's ability to deliver
appreciable assistance. Pilot activities have provided key lessons needed for broader programs.
The third objective of improving maintenance of existing infrastructure networks and providing a
firmer basis for planning future development priorities was not achieved; however this was a relatively
minor objective and was very difficult to achieve through a national ministry. The technical assistance was
informative but has not yet been appreciably implemented.
The fourth objective of improving storm water drainage was achieved satisfactorily. The civil
works which were constructed for this purpose are designed to protect approximately 177 ha from
unusually severe flooding (i.e., a one-in-25 year storm event).
Had the project finished as scheduled on December 31, 1996, it would have achieved most of its
objectives. However since the 1996 Jakarta floods presented an immediate need and since there were still
substantial project funds available, agreement was reached to add large scale drainage works to the project.
The project extension enabled the construction of these much needed drainage facilities. This objective was
somewhat overtaken by economic and political circumstances; however the resulting three-year extension
also provided a flexible mechanism to assist (through new innovative KIP activities) Jakarta's poor who
were severely impacted by the regional economic crisis.
- 4 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
Kampung Improvement Project ($58.4 million SAR - excluding contingencies, $54.6 million actual):
In effect there were three separate but related KIP activities in JUDPIII and collectively their achievements
were satisfactory; parts were highly satisfactory. Part 1 (about 10% of total KIP component) took place in
Botabek with seven kampungs in Bogor, six in Tangerang, and seven in Bekasi. These activities were
completed on schedule by 1996. The physical and institutional impacts were impressive: (a) land values
increased about five-fold (about three times that of similar non-KIP sites); (b) household credit group
participation doubled from 3,125 to 7,108, and; (c) physical works included over 90,000 m of roads and
footpaths, 61 public toilets, 26 water standpipes, and 115 community centers. An important
accomplishment in Bekasi was the ability to design and implement KIP activities with a multi-sectoral
approach where the Mayor took a direct interest and ensured interdepartmental coordination. The
beneficiary target of 400,000 people was exceeded. (A thorough discussion is provided in the government's
excellent 1996 Project Implementation Report available in the project files.)
The second KIP activity (about 78% of total KIP component) was the originally scheduled 75
kampungs (or kelurahans) in DKI Jakarta. Based on DKI Jakarta findings, at least 1.7 million people
benefited from these project activities. A comprehensive program of three types of development assistance
-- physical, economic and social, or "Tribina" was proposed. All physical objectives were achieved on
schedule by 1996. However many of the economic and social aspects were slower to develop. In 1996
there was still relatively little community consultation or substantive involvement, and there was a heavy
reliance on consultants working for Dinas Perumahan Also the achievements of the sanitation components
were modest as only public toilets were built and there was little attention to overall sanitation planning as
outlined in the SAR. NGOs were facilitating community consultations but their impact was still limited as
they were reporting to consultants and Dinas Perumahan staff who were generally more comfortable with
civil works.
The third part of the KIP component (about 12% of total KIP component), was carried out from
1996-1999, and was made possible due to the need to extend the project closing dates to complete the
drainage works. DKI Jakarta agreed to increase community involvement and wanted to explore ways to
improve overall KIP service delivery. As this was consistent with the project's main objective and DKI
Jakarta provided credible assurances for increased economic and social activity, the Bank agreed. An
estimated 575,000 people benefited from these additional activities (based on 15% coverage in 85
participating kampungs with, on average, 45,000 residents each). These efforts, which included two
Community Environment "Grants" (CEG1 and CEG2), and "Community-Based Activities Dealing with the
Economic Crisis" (CBEC), were able to overcome many of the limitations observed in the first five years of
project KIP activities. A persistent problem - the transfer of funds - was overcome through the new
activities. During CEGI, DKI Jakarta retained five local NGOs to provide community facilitation,
emphasizing economic and social aspects. These five NGOs operated in 10 new kelurahans, in parallel to
the 75 kelurahans being assisted by consultants. This was a considerable accomplishment since these were
among the first NGOs ever hired by DKI Jakarta, and special authorization was required from the
Governor. After one year, an independent evaluation revealed that the NGOs had provided superior
assistance. As a result, CEG2, which covered 85 kelurahans, was assisted only by NGOs. During this
time the economic crisis deepened and the May 1998 riots occurred. Further direct and immediate poverty
alleviation was provided through CBEC which was specifically designed to respond to the considerable
impacts on Jakarta's poor, who were made poorer from the economic crises. This assistance included
training, small scale credit, and considerable community-managed and implemented small scale civil works.
There is no doubt that the last three years of additional KIP interventions provided important
lessons for Jakarta and Indonesia (see DKI Jakarta's video, on file). The lessons pertained mostly to the
benefits and mechanics of greater community involvement in providing KIP activities. The experience is
being applied throughout Indonesia, for example in the "Community-Based Development" activities in
- 5 -



Sulawesi. The political climate also changed during these activities, and DKI Jakarta is now far more able
to respond to community-based initiatives due to their experience with these KIP activities.
Priority Solid Waste ($8.4 million SAR, $5.2 million actual): This component's achievements are
satisfactory. The first objective aimed at providing equipment to extend secondary solid waste collection of
household refuse to the kampungs being assisted under the original KIP. Additional transportation of the
waste to a final disposal site was to be provided largely by private contractors. Originally 77 vehicles were
to be purchased and subsequently leased to the private sector. Forty-five trucks were leased to the private
sector and the other 32 trucks were purchased by the DKI Jakarta Public Cleansing Authority (DKI Dinas
Kebersihan) to be used by existing staff, since the Authority did not believe that the private sector could
absorb all 77 vehicles and DKI Jakarta had excess staff capacity. (A national law was passed during
project implementation which made retrenchment of local government staff unlikely.) Additionally 256
Waste Transfer Sites were constructed, and 227 10 m' waste containers were purchased. This component
is considered satisfactory since it led DKI Dinas Kebersihan to commit to broadening the privatization
program, and private sector involvement is now firmly established. An important institutional development
accomplishment is that technical staff of DKI Dinas Kebersihan believe that they should quickly phase out
of collecting waste from businesses, to concentrate solely on residential collection. Waste from businesses
can be collected by private companies who could recover their costs through fees. Jakarta's new waste
management strategy reflects this change of attitude.
The component's second objective was to fund the closing of three landfill sites and to clean up
informal dump sites, particularly along canals. The project successfully closed the three sites. Project
funds were not needed to clean up the informal dump sites, as this was successfully carried out under the
national Prokasih (clean rivers) program.
The third, smaller element in this component was technical assistance for a "resource recovery"
pilot in three sites to improve recycling, composting, and to assist waste-pickers. The study was
successfully completed and provided very good input to larger scale program considerations; however
follow-through has so far been modest Institutionally, however, much of the technical capacity has been
retained and is now being used to design follow-on activities.
Pollution Control and Environmental Monitoring ($4.6 million SAR, $4.5 million actual): This
component was divided into two parts: assistance to Jakarta's KPPL/Bapedalda laboratory and technical
assistance. Both parts are rated as satisfactory. New laboratory equipment successfully provided critical
facilities for Jakarta's environmental laboratory which is now yielding important environmental data,
including industrial pollution monitoring (SAR target of 4,000 firms monitored annually achieved). Staff
capabilities are satisfactory, as substantial training was provided from many sources; however
sustainability of the service remains a concern since recurrent operating costs, e.g. spare parts and chemical
reagents, are high.
The three key studies completed by Bappedal (Ministry of the Environment) - Pollution Control
Strategy, Integrated Industry Waste Processing, and Small Scale Industrial Waste Management - are
technically excellent, especially the Pollution Control Strategy. Stakeholder participation and dissemination
of the findings were disappointing though. Some key recommendations are now proceeding, e.g., GOI has a
strategy for phasing out leaded fuel, and the completed Pollution Control Strategy forms the basis of the
proposed West Java and Jakarta Environmental Management Project (FY01).
Urban Spatial Management and Monitoring ($3.9 million SAR, $2.9 million actual): This component
comprised technical assistance for three studies: Review of the Jabotabek Development Plan, an Urban
Fringe Area Planning Study, and a Land Use Map Updating for Botabek. These studies, carried out by the
Land Use Planning Department of the Ministry of Public Works, were intended to propose key
- 6 -



recommendations and increase institutional capacity. The studies were technically sound, but there was
very little implementation of the recommendations. Much of the inability to implement key
recommendations arose since, similar to the environmental management and operations and maintenance
reviews, the studies were carried out on behalf of local governments by central government ministries. The
component is rated as satisfactory since important land use planning assistance was provided, although the
overall impact of this component is still low.
Infrastructure Maintenance ($0.9 million SAR, $0.9 million actual): This component is rated
unsatisfactory. Recognizing that attention to operations and maintenance (O&M) was perennially low, the
project included a technical assistance component with the Ministry of Home Affairs. Provision was made
to review and implement improved O&M of facilities in Jabotabek. This was to be accomplished through a
performance-oriented maintenance and management system (POMMS). The study provided spending
targets for proper O&M funding of which targets of 100% and 80% were set for Jakarta and Botabek
respectively in the SAR. The final study was technically sound, but it was unable to convince local
governments to focus more attention on O&M. These targets have not yet been met and O&M funding
remains a problem in Jabotabek's urban areas as governments generally allocate insufficient funds to
O&M.
Project Coordination ($1.2 million SAR, $1.0 million actual): This component was marginally
satisfactory. The majority of project coordination rested with JUPCO, the Jabotabek Urban Project
Coordination Office. JUPCO was to coordinate JUDPI (urban transport), JUDPII (water and sanitation),
and JUDPIII, with all other capital investment projects in Jabotabek. Similar to the experience of JUDPI
and JUDPII, overall coordination was poor, with JUPCO being more reactive than pro-active, and many
decisions being deferred. This was especially apparent in the latter years of the project when JUDPI and
JUDPII had closed, however during this time the majority of JUPCO's operating costs were financed by
DKI Jakarta's annual operating budget and not from project funds. This was considered practical since
DKI Jakarta (mainly Bappeda) was designated to assume JUPCO's coordinating role when JUDPIII closed.
JUPCO and DKI Jakarta deserve credit for designing and implementing the innovative approaches within
CBEC KIP activities which placed far more responsibility in the hands of the actual beneficiaries.
Storm Water Drainage ($11.2 million actual): This component is rated satisfactory. In January 1996
Jakarta was severely flooded with the project kampungs especially hard hit. With some $15 million loan
savings available, DKI Jakarta requested that these funds be reallocated to provide drainage improvements.
The Bank agreed after DKI demonstrated that: the facilities could be constructed quickly; they fit within the
overall drainage master plan; river dredgings would be disposed of properly; and land acquisition was not
required. The drainage proposals were also consistent with OED's 1995 KIP review which advocated a
close link between large scale drainage works and poverty alleviation. An important component was the
construction of storm water retention ponds on lands belonging to the University of Indonesia and the
Jakarta Zoo (owned by DKI Jakarta). The closing date was initially extended by one year to complete the
works. These works meshed well with JUDPII (Ln. 3219-IND) activities and provided relief to many
kampung residents, most of whom ranked flooding as their number one concem during community
consultations. The economic crisis, and corresponding political difficulties, required that the project's
closing date be extended by two more years to complete this component. Constructed works are well
designed, integrated within the City's overall drainage program, construction quality appears sound, and all
facilities are now operational. Project management skills in the Department of Public Works also
improved.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
-7 -



KIP.  For this component, a simplified approach of measuring increases in land values was used to
quantify the economic benefits. Land values in the kampungs which were improved, and those in similar
kampungs which were not improved, were compared for a "controlled" analysis. At project appraisal, from
previous experience under the Third Urban Development Project (Urban III; Ln. 1653) and the Fourth
Urban Development Project (Urban IV; Ln. 1972), some 20% to 70% of the economic internal rate of
return (EIRR) was expected as an indicative estimate. OED's KIP Impact Evaluation Report (June 1995)
confinned this promising economic benefit by re-evaluating the impact of KIP under the Jakarta Urban
Development Project (Ln. 1040), Second Urban Development Project (Urban II; Ln. 1336), Urban III and
Urban IV. OED found that the EIRRs under these four projects ranged from 26% to 31 % over a useful life
of 15 years.
After adjusting for inflation and eliminating the effects of non-KIP-related appreciation, land
values in the Botabek kampungs increased by an average of 27% after KIP (Rp 128,000/m2 for KIPped
kampungs vs. Rp 101,000/m2 for adjacent kampungs not KIPped in 1996 constant rupiah). On the cost
side, for every rupiah of the project investment funded by the Loan funds and government's counterpart
funds, some Rp 0.43 was invested by the residents of the kampung as "community contribution". The total
investment per m of salable land, assuming 60% of the gross area is salable, was Rp 720 on average. This
translates into an overall EIRR of some 500%, clearly indicating that this component is highly justifiable
economically. Unfortunately, no similar analysis was carried out on the DKI Jakarta KIP component
because it was implemented later than the Botabek KIP and coincided with the Economic Crisis, which
overshadowed any possible time-series land value analysis. However it is safe to assume that similar high
economic returns were realized in the DKI Jakarta KIP area as well.
It is crucial, however, that project activities be properly targeted to the poor and under-serviced
kampungs as intended, if it is to achieve such high economic returns. During project implementation,
extensive random spot-checking was carried out to ensure that the selection of project sites was in
accordance with the KIP concept and that the funds were not mis-targeted to already serviced (more
affluent) parts of the city.
Drainage and Flood Control. This component was supplementing a larger drainage and flood control
program by financing priority investments, which were identified in a previous JICA-financed master plan.
The engineering part of the analysis also depended on already existing studies. Government's economic
analysis, titled "Economic Assessment for Drainage Improvement Program of JUDPIII" was reviewed. The
economic benefits have been estimated primarily based on the expected reduction in flood damage to
household properties. After correcting some minor methodological inconsistencies and computational
errors, it was concluded that this component yielded an average EIRR of 20% (see Annex 3 for more
details).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Following established policy for KIP, no direct costs were expected to be recovered from the
beneficiaries. As outlined in the SAR, increased property values, and corresponding increases in tax
revenue by local governments, were expected to offset the investment costs. Also, as outlined at appraisal,
technical assistance costs were not recovered. Solid waste investment costs are being recovered through
service charges and local taxes. Costs of all solid waste collection vehicles leased to the private sector are
being recovered through the leases. The original payment period of four years was extended to six years in
response to the economic crises. Solid waste collection fees have increased by more than 100% in all
participating neighborhoods - more than offsetting investment costs. During the project, tipping fees also
doubled at major waste disposal sites, e.g. Jakarta's Bantar Gebang disposal site.
As outlined in the SAR much of the project's costs were expected to be recovered through
increased land tax revenue and increased transfer taxes when properties are sold. Very little property
- 8 -



transfer has yet occurred and increases in land taxes were deferred in many communities during the
economic crises. However, based on the recognized increases in property values, it is apparent that local
governments will experience satisfactory rates of return.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Through the KIP component, the project quickly responded to, and reinforced, the increased
democratization of local government in Jakarta (driven by national circumstances). DKI Jakarta staff are
more technically competent and open to public input as a result of the project; however translating this new
spirit of openess into noticeably improved service delivery is progressing slowly. The project has helped all
participating local governments to strengthen their relationship with the general community. Much of this
coincides with Indonesia's recent political reforms, however the project was well positioned to provide
tangible and immediate ways to improve this partnership.
In Jakarta, the project provided two critical precedents: the direct hiring of NGOs and the leasing
of solid waste collection vehicles (both requiring Governor's Decrees). Both were initially opposed by DKI
Jakarta, but are now practices used with the City's own funds. Similarly the extensive community
consultation aspects of CBEC are increasingly being used by DKI Jakarta in other activities. The DKI
Jakarta Departments of Environment (Bappedalda), Public Cleansing (Dinas Kebersihan), and Public
Works are all able to make more effective use of their human and financial resources than before the
project, and the majority of these gains occurred over the last four years. Key staff received critical
training. Inter-department coordination and relationships between different levels of government, e.g.
central government relations with local governments, or the Lurah (and LKMD) with community groups,
are still weak, although improvement is visible and efforts are underway to strengthen community
participation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were two key factors outside the government's control that affected project implementation:
(a) the floods that hit Jakarta in January 1996; and (b) the economic crisis of 1997/98, and the resulting
political crisis of 1998/99, and especially the riots that took place in Jakarta in May 1998.
The floods of 1996 had a dramatic impact on many kampung areas, some of which were inundated
by over 2 meters of flood waters. DKI Jakarta wanted to quickly respond to the problem and demonstrate
to the public that they were working to minimize reoccurrences. The Bank responded to this political
imperative by agreeing to include the drainage component, but the subsequent delays added a total of three
years to the life of the project.
The economic crisis had a significant impact as Jabotabek was among the hardest hit areas in
Indonesia. This impact was particularly visible in the participating project kampungs, where many
households lost most or all of their income, thus reducing their ability to service micro-credits. This was
also an issue with the newly created solid waste collection companies who had difficulties servicing their
leases during the crisis. The community and government were often traumatized by the economic crisis and
most decisions were considerably delayed.
Other delays outside government control resulted from the economic crisis. Overseas pump and
equipment suppliers were reluctant to supply equipment to Indonesia after the May 1998 riots and needed
assurances from the Bank and additional letters of credit. Another factor delaying drainage pump supply
was the closing of the awarded supplier's factory due to fire. The contract needed to be re-negotiated,
which caused yet another six-month delay.
-9-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During project implementation the self-administered City (kotamadya) of Tangerang was created
out of the District (kabupaten) of Tangerang. The original subsidiary loan agreement, and thus
responsibility for implementing KIP activities, rested with Kabupaten Tangerang; however four of the six
KIP sites were in the new City's boundaries. Activities were delayed and the issue has still not been fully
resolved. A similar situation has recently arisen in the new City of Depok, separated from the District of
Bogor. However in this case, all responsibility for loan servicing remained with the District of Bogor.
Implementation was not affected but repayment of the subsidiary loan needs to be confirmed between the
Ministry of Finance and the City of Tangerang.
Central government ministries effectively completed the studies they were responsible for, but
implementation of the recommendations was not aggressively pursued. DKI Jakarta and the Botabek local
governments were, and are, competent agencies and they were capable of implementing most of the project;
however they would have benefited from more monitoring from the central government, e.g., procurement
issues in DKI Jakarta (see following paragraphs).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agencies did not always provide JUPCO with sufficient input to be able to
effectively manage and coordinate activities. Towards project completion JUPCO provided little overall
coordination. DKI Jakarta, however, recognized the inherent limitations of JUPCO and was moving to
internalize all its functions into existing agencies and departments (especially Bappeda), while paying for
JUPCO's operations with their annual operating budget.
The project's implementation progress was rated "unsatisfactory" from April 1995 to July 1996.
This was mainly a result of procurement irregularities in DKI Jakarta's KIP component where the lowest
bidders were not being consistently awarded the contracts. Upon learning of this after a supervision
mission, the Ministry of Finance effectively suspended disbursements by not submitting the relevant
withdrawal applications to the Bank.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project was estimated to cost US$97 million (loan amount of $61 million). The actual
cost, with the drainage works and additional KIP activities is estimated at US$80 million (loan amount of
$54.6 million). Cost changes were significant since they were mainly for KIP activities which were 100%
local costs. The Rupiah exchange rate varied significantly during project implementation, and the savings
were greater than the associated rate of inflation. KIP activities were originally allocated $58.4 million
over five years (excluding contingencies). The actual cost was $54.6 million over eight years and more
activities were carried out than originally planned. There were also some $3 million saved in the solid
waste component as some planned activities were funded from a different source and truck costs were less
than estimated. The other four components, pollution control, spatial management, infrastructure
maintenance, and JUPCO's operating costs, were largely disbursed on schedule and near budget estimates.
Standard physical contingencies (10% for civil works in KIP and 5% on equipment) and price
contingencies totaling $19.6 million were provided in the original project cost summary. The need for
contingency funds did not arise, so these funds remained available. After the floods of 1996 GOI requested
that these funds be used for drainage works rather than simply canceled.
Additional drainage works of $11.2 million were added in late 1996 just before the project's
originally scheduled closing. These works expanded the project's scope, but responded well to the urgent
needs of the flood-prone kampungs. About 80% of the drainage works were in local currency (with
significant labor requirements) and since the works were carried out during the economic crisis with the
- 10-



devalued Rupiah, costs were further reduced. "Padat Karya" (labor-intensive civil works) were carried out
at the same time in response to the economic crisis, but the drainage works may have provided even more
employment and provided more urgently needed infrastructure.
The project was originally costed at $1 = Rp 1,780. Exchange rates varied significantly during
project implementation ranging from an average of $1 = Rp 2400 during the first five years of the project,
and up to a maximum of $1 = Rp 15,000 during the peak economic crises. Foreign costs were much less
than initially proposed, especially in the KIP component. Total project costs were estimated at 174,200
million IDR ($97 million); actual costs were 241,430 million IDR ($80 million).
6. Sustainability
6] Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is likely. In all areas, sufficiently experienced and competent staff exist to
maintain project assisted facilities and policies. The policy environment of local government service
provision improved. All the local governments that participated in the project are replicating and expanding
KIP activities with their own budgets. DKI Jakarta is currently operating a pilot that builds on the lessons
learned in this project, particularly regarding greater community consultation. JUPIII's experience has been
used by many local governments such as Surabaya and those in Sulawesi. With Indonesia's rapidly
changing local governance climate, local governments are increasingly relying on KIP-type activities to
build greater trust between themselves and the community. Although this is usually a slow process, the
fundamnentals of community consultation developed under JUDPIII will provide much of the foundation for
improved local governance and service delivery. A key component of the project's sustainability will be the
further development of community-based organizations. Their initial capacity is so far mixed but their
overall impact is certainly considerable; they are beginning to form the basis of a local "civil society".
The sustainability of physical works investments in KIP is largely a function of the local
community's commitment to maintaining these facilities. A field review of Bekasi KIP sites showed that
most of the roads are well maintained, and in fact, the community is jointly constructing new roads and
drains. The sustainability of facilities that rely on local governments for operation and maintenance is less
certain. Generally, local governments are not yet providing services such as water supply and waste
collection in a consistently sustainable manner, although the Beneficiary Survey showed that the quality of
service provision improved during the project. Other community-managed activities such as local credit
unions are mostly sustainable. This sustainability was threatened by the "social safety net" interventions,
which had more lenient grant mechanisms; however most of the facilities have survived, and the loan
repayment rate is still over 95%.
Sustainability of the solid waste activities is likely. Achievements under this component have been
sustained through the economic crisis. With the DKI Public Cleansing Department's active assistance and
commitment, the majority of the waste collection companies leasing vehicles, remain viable at this time.
Plans are underway to increase the role of the private sector and expand the truck leasing system.
The sustainability of the DKI Jakarta laboratory equipment requires ongoing operating budget
provision. Staff are competent, well trained, and committed, but annual operating budgets are still minimal.
Similarly, the findings of the Environmental Pollution Control Report provided input into the regional
discussions on environmental management. Substantive implementation may have been delayed due to the
economic crises but the political will to respond and public's environmental concern increased throughout
the project.
The sustainability of the POMMS program is unlikely. There was little follow-through on the
program's recommendations, and until governments allocate sufficient resources for operations and
maintenance activities, there will be little sustainable impact. Appreciation of the critical need for
increased operations and maintenance funding has increased, but this still needs to be translated into the
- 11 -



annual budgeting process.
Sustainability of the drainage component is likely although vigilance is needed to ensure adequate
O&M of the facilities; to-date the maintenance program appears sound. Regularly scheduled pump
maintenance is needed, as is dredging the retention ponds periodically, and reducing the amount of solid
waste disposed of in rivers and canals (this is the leading cause of flooding in Jakarta).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
KIP investments have a mixed degree of integration into regular operations. In Botabek the road
and footpath investments have been fully integrated into local communities who are themselves are
maintaining and building new, complementary facilities. Success with public toilets is less promising.
Where fully assumed by the community, maintenance is good; however, where the local government is in
charge of maintenance, or where institutional responsibilities are not clear, maintenance suffers.
The local credit unions no longer receive government assistance, and while operated by local
neighborhoods loan repayments exceed 95%. Most charge close to market interest rates. Training
activities supported by KIP are not well integrated into the local community, but improvements are
forthcoming. Jakarta is funding further KIP pilots which are expanding both community consultation and
service delivery.
The single most important follow on activity for JUDPIII will be the mechanics of integrating KIP
activities (especially in DKI Jakarta) into ongoing regular local government operations. Key to this is the
building of trust and service delivery capacity of local government departments. The new, more open
political climate is encouraging. Although slow, progress is definitely being made and the next three years
will be critical as the public's expectations grow.
Solid waste collection vehicles have been fully integrated into local operations. The Public
Cleansing Authority in Jakarta, however, has agreed that their level of regular maintenance is low, and that
the vehicles leased to the private sector are better maintained. There are efforts to improve City
maintenance levels, but results have so far been minimal.
Drainage investments in DKI Jakarta are in the process of being "handed over" to the operations
department. On the critical path are the ongoing operational requirements of Jakarta's 138 large drainage
pumps (about 50 in excess of 1 m3s'). The City has assumed all responsibility for these investments and
they are well integrated into regular operations. A similar level of facility integration exists in Bappedalda.
Laboratory equipment is an integral part of the city's environmental testing regime. Again, however,
making available sufficient operational funds on an ongoing basis is critical. Efforts are underway: to
increase fees to private businesses using the facility; to direct more tests to private laboratories; and to use
the City's laboratory for oversight purposes and baseline environmental quality monitoring.
The project can be monitored and evaluated in the future based on beneficiary surveys similar to
those conducted during preparation of the ICR. These were very effective. Other key indicators to monitor
include: (i) local government budget allocations to KIP or similar community-based activities; (ii) number
of industries tested by the environmental laboratory; (iii) ratio and total of waste collected by the private
sector; (iv) amount of flooding during storm events, and (v) percent of budgets allocated for operations and
maintenance activities (and impact).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank's performance in project identification was
- 12-



satisfactory. The project was consistent with GOI's desire to assist the urban poor and with the Bank's
ongoing assistance to Indonesia's urban sector. As part of the series of integrated urban infrastructure
developments, JUDPIII was well coordinated with other parallel (e.g. JUDPI and JUDPII) and previous
projects. JUDPIII's KIP design responded to the Government's requests, and the Bank's hopes, to move
away from the historically more common "top-down" approach with physical investments, to programs
which also included "social" and "economic" activities, i.e., Tribina. This concept was based on the
National KIP Policy Study financed earlier under the Urban Sector Project (Ln. 2816-IND).
The Bank's performance in preparation was satisfactory. During preparation the Bank fielded at
least two 8-member comprehensive missions which included expertise in financial analysis, community
development, operations, economics, solid waste, sanitary engineering, and private sector specialization.
Technically, the project was well prepared with an extremely detailed implementation workplan. Terms of
references for major reports were thoroughly reviewed. The linkages between national, provincial and local
governments with community groups were reviewed and terms of references reflected the strategic goals for
key implementation to occur at local government levels. Project targets were clear.
The Bank's performance at appraisal was also satisfactory. The Bank's appraisal team was a
ten-member mission which included a comprehensive skill mix including the eight specializations used
during preparation, plus two urban and environment specialists. Government's commitment was well
evaluated and documented. Procurement and financial management capacities were well reviewed.
Linkages with other donors were incorporated, e.g., the Japanese-funded environmental technical
assistance. All relevant safeguard policies were reviewed and thoroughly discussed and agreed-to with
government. An extensive environmental review was part of project preparation; this was monitored
throughout implementation. Continuity from identification through to appraisal was strong.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performnance during supervision was satisfactory. At least two missions were carried out every
year and the Bank's resident staff provided ongoing assistance. Since headquarters-based staff regularly
travel through Jakarta, scheduled supervision was augmented by regular meetings while keeping overall
costs relatively low. The skill mix of supervision missions was appropriate throughout the project and
where possible, a heavier reliance was placed on locally available staff and consultants. The Tribina
aspects of JUDPIII were promoted and replicated throughout Indonesia. Many of the project- supported
consultants assisted other KIP and community consultation activities throughout Indonesia, e.g., Surabaya,
Sulawesi, Bandung. There was excellent staff continuity throughout the project.
The KIP component, especially in DKI Jakarta, received continuous monitoring. Two local staff
attended numerous informal meetings and were in constant communication with key implementing staff.
Development impact was continuously monitored and specific technical reviews, such as the drainage pump
review, were carried out as required. Three independent local teams were hired through supervision funds
to evaluate KIP activities (reports on file). The reviews were shared with the government and the lessons
incorporated. Innovative ways to advance KIP's objective of "building community" were used. For
example, during the latter phases of KIP in Jakarta, the Bank tried to get independent and trusted assistance
to the program. Rotary Intemational was requested to provide assistance to project supervision and
augment their school fee grant program. Unfortunately the project closed before a comprehensive program
could be developed, although this is still being pursued.
No major deviations from Bank policy were observed (except for the Dinas Perumahan procurement
irregularities). The Bank was particularly vigilant on procurement issues and paid close attention to
resettlement issues. Two procurement issues were identified and expeditiously resolved during project
implementation: irregular contract tendering by Dinas Perumahan and anonymous corruption allegations
against Dinas PU over pump acquisition. Loan covenants were enforced. Audits were usually late, but
were immediately followed up upon receipt, as in the case of GOI's Auditing Agency's audit of the CEG
- 13-



KIP component. A supervision plan was developed toward the end of the project and was shared with the
client and followed. Supervision continuously urged government, especially DKI Jakarta, to explore new
ways of improving service delivery, and acted as a partner as these initiatives were tested. Environmental
safeguards were followed and specific technical inputs provided when required, e.g., disposal of river
dredgings and reviewing the impacts of drainage works. The two key environmental issues identified at
appraisal, KIP and solid waste, were monitored throughout supervision. Independent reviews were also
undertaken, and recommendations, such as those in the KIP sanitation review, were implemented.
Additionally, the status of Jakarta-operated landfills was monitored, and management improvements
suggested.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending activities, comprehensive teams were
fielded with many members maintained throughout supervision. Supervision missions included the required
expertise and local staff who continuously monitored project activities. One of the most positive aspects
was the Bank's flexibility in meeting Jakarta's unprecedented drainage needs and modifying KIP activities
to further emphasize Tribina concepts during project extensions. The Bank attempted to minimize project
delays, for example those resulting from drainage pump replacement requirements and the transition to
CEG2 which was predicated on incorporating the lessons learned in CEGI. As it became clear that the
project's contingency funds would not be needed and there would be large savings, the Bank urged GOI to
modify the Loan. Supervision was also intensified during the most severe stages of the economic crisis.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. Before JUDPIII, the traditional
"top-down" infrastructure-only approach to KIP was practiced. During identification, senior DKI officials
expressed to the Bank that they did not want to borrow for traditional KIP, and pushed for separating KIP
from JUDPII since they wanted the Bank's assistance to focus on the new policy aspects of KIP. During
preparation, both DKI and the Botabek govemments agreed to the "Tribina" approach, as well as
supporting stronger community participation, e.g., "community development action groups" and for the
first time, a defined community development cycle (outlined in the SAR). This new approach was
supported by DKI and Botabek policy-makers.
All project components were thoroughly evaluated, satisfactory TORs were prepared, and the
government's project management structure was clearly outlined. The government (DKI Jakarta) also
prepared the drainage component, and CEGI, CEGII, CBEC, on their own and within a relatively short
time frame. All of these activities were carried out as planned and the objectives achieved.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
The Borrower's performance in implementation was also satisfactory. Most of the original objectives
were met, and with the project extension, additional objectives were also met. Despite severe budgetary
restrictions, GOI still supplied the required counterpart funds.
JUPCO acted mainly as an intermediary between implementing agencies. Coordination could have
been better, particularly during the last three years of the project, however JUPCO was a small office
financed through Jakarta's annual operating budget during that time. Overall implementation would have
improved if there was better integration of the results of key studies carried out by national ministries (i.e.,
Bappedal, Home Affairs, and Public Works) with local governments.
- 14 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project had one executing agency (Ministry of Settlements and Regional Development) and seven
implementing agencies (two more had to be added when the cities of Tangerang and Bekasi were separated
from their districts). The key implementing agency, DKI Jakarta, had activities in four main departments.
With this many agencies, performances varied.
The local governments of Botabek, especially Kotamadya Bekasi, implemented their KIP components
very well. Activities in DKI Jakarta were better in the latter stages of the project as Bappeda took on a
more active project management role. This was necessitated by the relatively large drainage component
added and its significant counterpart budget requirement, and the overall city-wide impacts of the economic
crisis. Generally DKI Jakarta responded to the crisis admirably and used the assistance within the project to
the best effect possible.
National ministries were not continuously involved in project implementation. The studies were very
well executed, especially the Jabotabek Environmental Strategy, but the recommendations were not
generally implemented by local governments.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. Most objectives, including the new ones, were
substantively achieved. Available funds were used wisely, e.g., using newly available Prokasih funds (i.e.,
grants) to clean up the river waste sites rather than loan funds.
The national government largely delegated implementation to local governments. This was extremely
positive and all local governments were greatly assisted by this increased responsibility. Tighter monitoring
by national agencies would have been useful.
8. Lessons Learned
A number of interesting lessons arose from general project implementation; other lessons are more
Bank-specific. Both types of lessons are outlined below.
I. LESSONS OF GENERAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
KIP (i.e., MHT in Jakarta)
The Role of Women. The role of women needs to be increased in KIP management. Women have already
proven their critical role in KIP micro-credit activities, but this needs to be expanded to include greater
involvement in all KIP activities. Affirmative action should be used, e.g., establishing programs only for
women and setting minimum levels of female KIP management staff. This recommendation was confirmed
very clearly in both the Beneficiary Survey and workshop.
Micro-Credits. One of the most important components of KIP is the provision of micro-credits. JUDPIII
established some 80 community credit unions providing over 400,000 loans. Based on beneficiary surveys
and independent audits (at least 95% of loans serviced), these have been successful, and DKI Jakarta and
other cities have proven their ability to help establish these facilities. There should now be an effort to move
towards having micro-credit activities, now often included in KIP, assisted by a professional and private
financial institution (or advisor). Cities no longer need to continuously facilitate the start-up of these credit
unions if they could be efficiently provided through private credit facilities. A review of the provision of
micro-credit in Indonesian urban areas is warranted.
- 15-



The Benefit of a Flexible Approach. Due to the project extensions, the relative ease of adjusting KIP
activities (within the annual budget cycle), and the ability to closely monitor activities (Jakarta's proximity),
ongoing revisions to KIP methods, beyond the more typical KIP efforts in other cities, were possible in
Jakarta. Each new iteration provided important lessons, but the most important lesson may be that if the
World Bank wants to continue to support KIP-type activities, an ability to continuously adjust assistance
mechanisms is critical. There is, however, a serious concern regarding supervision requirements for this
type of intervention. Similarly, local governments usually need to be able to carry out the planning and
implementation schedule within one year to be most effective. This responds to one of the community's
biggest criticisms in the Beneficiary Survey, which was that the time lag between planning and
implementation reduced the project's credibility.
Overlapping Projects. KIP activities in DKI Jakarta under JUDPIII spanned more than eight consecutive
years, the last three of which were through the unprecedented economic crisis. During this crisis there was
a significant effort from central government and donors to establish a "social safety net". Some five
projects, such as PDM-DKE, padat karya (labor-intensive public works), and JSP (social safety net -
grant, labor intensive civil works, and loan activities) were quickly established. These often had different
requirements and procedures and led to considerable confusion and at times, damaged pre-existing
beneficial programs. For example, defaults on micro-credits increased since parallel projects provided
grants and people were unable to see the difference.
Some of these projects purposely bypassed local government due to concerns related to speed,
efficiency and corruption. There is no way to coordinate this many activities within a city other than
through the local government; however the community (local and donor) needs to be able to monitor and
evaluate these programs. Local governments in Jabotabek should prepare plans on how they will assist the
urban poor and these should be made public and reviewed periodically. Donor programs should fit within
these strategies.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Use of loan funds to lease solid waste trucks appears sound and is a practical way to increase
private sector involvement. In all large cities (over 100,000), GOI should be wary to borrow funds for solid
waste collection vehicles unless they are part of a leasing program to encourage private sector waste
collection. DKI Jakarta wisely used a private leasing agency to lease these vehicles. This is an even better
approach than use of loan funds and should be further evaluated. This may be a useful role for the IFC, and
Dinas Kebersihan could simply provide contract agreements so that private firms are able to more easily
access leases.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND POLLUTION CONTROL
The acquisition of laboratory equipment by Bappedalda (formerly KPPL, the local term for
Jakarta Environment Laboratory) and training of personnel were well managed. The facilities are now
operating and capable staff are available. There is still, however, insufficient budget to sustain air and
water quality monitoring. Bappedalda should not need to depend on ad hoc grants and loans for
operations. In addition to government-sponsored activities, pollution control must involve civil society.
DRAINAGE
The drainage component made an important contribution to flood prevention; however DKI Jakarta
particularly needs to better enforce land use guidelines if severe flooding is to be ameliorated. Similarly
solid waste collection needs to improve, as the capacity of some canals and rivers is reduced by as much as
- 16 -



75% due to poor garbage collection. Much of the city's flooding can be cost-effectively reduced by better
managing land development and solid waste collection.
II. BANK SPECIFIC LESSONS
A focus on outcome and output indicators is critical, especially in more nebulous project activities
such as "poverty alleviation". The Bank's current requirement to include these as a central aspect of any
project is very useful as highlighted by the retrofitting within this project. Having this at the start of the
project would have helped to re-focus activities when circumstances changed.
One of JUDPIII's greatest contributions to development impact was through its flexibility, e.g.,
KIP changes over the eight years of project activity. It is not possible to design a project in an area such as
community-based KIP that can hope to know what conditions will be in five years time. Therefore the Bank
should focus more on an agreed-to process that can respond to changing situations.
Through JUDPIII a strong argument can be made that the Bank was able to respond effectively to
an important and unforeseen demand, i.e., drainage. In some larger cities with strong Bank partnerships,
"line of credit" type assistance should be explored (with clear mechanisms to access the funds).
Wholesaling this assistance through national governments and pooled funds may reduce the effectiveness of
a quick response. Working with fewer cities with longer and deeper partnerships, in some key sectors, may
be warranted. As discussed with DKI Jakarta, a publicly reviewed city development strategy should be a
prerequisite of any long-term partnership with the Bank. By a specified date, perhaps 2002, all large cities
(over 500,000) seeking Bank assistance should have a city development strategy that they themselves
prepare and maintain.
For community-based development type projects, there should be a less prescriptive approach and
more focus on sharing and articulating objectives and how they will be monitored. There should also be
more recognition of the link between environment and health. Also, a greater role for women in
management and implementation should be provided.
Even cities as competent as DKI Jakarta are not able to coordinate numerous outside aid programs,
e.g., the overlapping social safety net activities. It is incumbent upon these aid agencies to assist local
governments to manage the mechanics and benefits of these activities. This is especially important since the
most able agency to provide assistance to the urban poor is local governments; DKI Jakarta and Botabek
proved this over the last three years. Central government, provincial governments, and aid agencies should
provide concrete assistance to local governments (mostly in terms of management improvement). However
a frank discussion of the concerns that these agencies may have in terms of transparency and efficiency in
the use of funds is needed.
The Bank should not support any more POMMS activities until a brief analysis has been
completed on previous activities and clear objectives are established for any future activities. A broader
strategy for O&M improvement with acknowledgment of incentives, and above all, increased commitment
by government, is needed.
JUDPIII provided models of two types of Bank project assistance: the clearly defined and generally
more typical civil works activities such as the drainage component, and the more nebulous and
community-intensive activities such as the recent KIP programs. Both are important and both benefit the
poor. Strong arguments can be made for one or the other type of intervention, but within competent cities,
the optimum approach may include a blend of the two. They need not be contained within the same
operation, but do need to be in the same city at the same time to take advantage of possible synergies.
- 17-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Summary Of Borrower's Project Completion Report (PCR)
Loan No. 3246-IND; JUDPIII
Borrower's Summary Of Project Completion Report (PCR)
(Translated Version)
1. Introduction
The development of integrated urban infrastructures is very important as a development planning
scheme so as to accommodate the size of the population of Jakarta and BOTABEK, which is estimated to
reach respectively 12.6 million and 11.0 million in 2005. JUDPIII, which is an inseparable part of the
aforementioned development program, has as one objective to restore the environment and reduce
pollution in JABOTABEK. JUDPIII became effective on March 14, 1990 and ended on December 31,
1996 with the completion of all original programs. However, since there were additional programs,
namely the Flood Prevention Program executed by the Public Work Services of the Special Capital City
Region of Jakarta and continuation of KIP program, namely Community Environment Grant I (CEG 1)
executed by the Housing Services of the Special Capital City Region of Jakarta, Procurement of
Laboratory Equipment by KPPL as well as KIP Continuation for Bekasi, this program was extended 3
(three) times: the first up to December 31, 1997, the second up to December 31, 1998 and the third up to
December 31, 1999.
2. Achievement of Project Components
2.1 Kampung Improvement Project (KIP)
The implementation of KIP has been successfully completed in five regions of the Special Capital
City Region of Jakarta covering 85 sub-districts and 20 sub-districts in Botabek. Additional and
continuation packages were also implemented, such as CEG I & 2, CBEC, in the Special Capital City
Region of Jakarta.
The KIP/MHTIII Program is a community-based concept having three development objectives,
namely social development, economy development and urban physical infrastructures development. With
this approach, the community can be encouraged to build capacities in preparing plans, implementing
programs, managing and maintaining various projects in accordance with their desires and requirements.
This concept is called TRIBINA (Three Developments), including Social Development, Economic
Development and Physical Development.
1) Social Development - The social development activities have been carried out to improve community
awareness of its responsibilities and its sense of contributing to clean and healthy environment by
establishing new community groups or developing the existing ones, namely Local Foundations (YS)
which supervise several Non-Government Organizations (NGO).
Training is provided for the Local Foundation and NGO as the community's representative on the
operational method of business management organization for community's welfare. The focus of the
training is to prepare and complete the duties of managers and to prepare a mechanism of every
sub-district as a leader, motivator, and co-ordinator in the implementation of KIP.
- 18-



2) Economic Development - The capacity of Local Foundations and NGO that are already formed are
developed in managing business capital, distributing funds, operating small-scale businesses, seeking
market opportunities, etc. Efforts to improve the appropriation of small-scale loans for various purposes,
including improving sanitation and housing. This program includes training in economic development
which among others focused on increasing incomes in the field of the culinary arts, electronics, welding,
tailoring, cosmetology, automotive and library.
3) Physical Development - The main target of physical development tends to be civil works for
constructing basic infrastructure and facilities which in general can be well completed. Some even exceed
the stipulated targets. However, some delays sometimes occur due to changes in program, such as
relocation, addition of location or delays of works due to several other reasons. A bottom-up approach
has been applied either in the planning or implementation of works. Contractors have also started to
employ local workers.
The physical outcome that can be achieved from KIP projects are:
a)    Neighborhood roads (for vehicles) and pathways (for people) in DKI Jakarta. The length of
neighborhood roads constructed is 127,708.65 m and the length of rehabilitated roads is
120,905.3 m, while the length of pathways constructed is 107,983.3 m.
b)    Sanitation facilities in the form of construction and rehabilitation of MCK (Public Sanitation
Facility). Twenty-five units were constructed.
c)    Clean water facilities, in the form of public wells, pump wells, water terminals. One hundred two
units were constructed, including 25 units of public wells, 66 units of rain water containers, and
1 1 units of water terminals.
d)    Public trash facilities, in the form of trash wheelbarrows, trash bins and compost processing
centers. 2,243 trash carts and 3,446 units of trash cans were procured for this facility.
e)    Drainage channels. Primary channel constructed 14,826.6 m and rehabilitated 159,346.4 m;
Secondary channel, constructed: connecting channel 35,797.4 m, street ditch 183,085.9 m,
pathway ditch 174,835.9 m, sewer 8,131.05 m; rehabilitated: connecting channel 2,129.5 m,
street ditch 62,161.2 m, pathway ditch 553,525.5 m.
f)    Convention and health centers including the construction of 31 multi-purpose buildings and 4
health centers.
Communitv Environmental Grant I (CEG 1)
In the context of stabilizing the implementation of "community-based" program, the KIP MHTIII project
was followed by Community Environmental Grant phase 1 (CEG 1), by using the remaining funds of
JUDPIII (the original JUDPIII program was completed on December 3 1, 1996). It is considered that
KIP MHTIII project still emphasized physical development rather than social or econoic development.
With the CEG program, the community can directly receive assistance funds. Seventy percent of the
World Bank's aid was directly distributed to communities, while 30% was used to implement an
assistance program by five consultants and five NGOs. The aforementioned public funds were used 40%
for physical, 30% for economic and 30% for social purposes.
Community Environmental Grant 2 (CEG2)
In order to consolidate and improve community participation as the subject of development, the CEGI
program was continued with the CEG2 program. The community participation and capacity in
- 19 -



implementing this program were deemed still requiring more consolidation. Consolidation by NGOs was
deemed to be more effective than by consultants. Therefore, the assistance in CEG2 was in its entirety
conducted by NGOs.
Assistance for 85 sub-districts (the sub-districts were the same subdistricts of CEG I program) was
conducted by five NGOs. The funding portion of CEG 2 was similar to CEG 1, namely 30% for
assistance by NGOs and 70% for the community, while the aforementioned community funds were
divided into 40% for physical, 30% for economic and 30%. for social purposes. This was the reason that
the Regional Government of DKI continued the program with Community Environmental Grant phase 2
(CEG2) for the same 85 sub-districts, with 30% of the funds allocated for management assistance and
70% for community. The community allocation of funds was 30% for social development, 40% for
economic development and 30% for physical development.
Community-Based Activities Dealing with the Economic Crisis (CBEC)
The CBEC program which includes 15 sub-districts (other than the subdistrict of MHT3 and
CEG program) was not only a rescue program for meeting the demands of underprivileged communities
in the continuing economic crisis occurring in Indonesia, but was also a poverty eradication program.
Community groups, formed directly by the community, were chosen by a selection team, and a
community financial institution was formed to manage the distribution of funds, which is expected to
preserve this program. Seventy percent of the program's funds were allocated for the community and 30%
were NGO assistance. The aforementioned community funds were divided into 50%, 30% and 20%
respectively for economic, physical and social development. Funds for social and physical development
were allocated as a grant, while funds for economic development were set up as rolling loans managed by
the community through community financial institutions. Staff funds were used for the Assisting NGOs,
Selecting NGO and Marketing NGO as well as the Sociology Laboratory of the Faculty of Social and
Political Sciences of the University of Indonesia.
With this program, the community is empowered to prepare, select and implement their proposals
and distribute funds in a bottom-up fashion. Moreover, this project has also produced a community
empowerment and community financial institution model.
KIP JUDPIII Botabek
A new approach was developed in order to promote community mobilization, interaction and
commitment in eliminating problems in planning, managing and maintaining various works packages.
1) Social Development - Social/community development activities have been performed through the
consolidation and operation of community and user organizations who concentrated on and increased high
quality social development training programs. The training focused on managerial skills including project
knowledge in each sub-district. The trained managers would be the leaders, motivators and co-ordinators
in the implementation of KIP. The targets of the training were sub-district staff, project staff, community
organizations and community action groups.
2) Economic Business Development - Efforts to improve economic opportunities included small-scale
loans for economically weak groups for various purposes, including rehabilitation of sanitation and
housing, and special assistance for small scale businesses, as well as management of a small-scale loan
program. In addition to social development, this program includes economic development training which
focused on income generation. This project has been successful: out of 32,010 small-scale entrepreneurs
in the one project location, 200 entrepreneurs obtained assistance from the project. The impact of the
economic development activities on income generation is estimated at 20 - 30% increase, after adjusting
- 20 -



for inflation. The targets of the training were sub-district staff, project staff, community organizations
and community action groups.
3) Civil Works - Generally, the project targets were met or exceeded. However during implementation,
there were changes, either in the form of re-location, adding a location(s), or delays due to various
reasons. The construction of basic infrastructures and facilities are identified and prioritized through a
bottom-up approach by involving the community. The physical outcomes of the KIP Project are:
a)     Neighborhood streets (for vehicles) and pathways (for people) for Botabek regions, in the
length of 83,514 km, had been constructed and used by 103,082 people. Community
participation in this case was relatively high as proven with the construction of pathways
of 8,890 m in length which was self-supported by the community.
b)      Sanitation facilities in the form of the construction and rehabilitation of Public Sanitary
Centers. For such purposes, 66 units of public sanitary centers are serving 984 houses or
1,459 household heads.
c)    Clean water facilities included public wells, pump wells and water terminals. 26 units were
constructed and 7 units are managed by consumer/seller groups. The aforementioned
facilities can serve 1,9046 houses.
d)    Public trash facilities, in the form of trash wheelbarrows, trash bins and compost
processing centers. The number of users is estimated at 888,588 people comprised of
69,150 people using trash carts and 1,9438 people using trash bins.
e)    Drainage: 60 km of drainage channels were constructed, including tertiary channels along
side the main streets. Those using this facility count 56,615 people living in 11,323,
houses along side the main streets.
f)   Convention and Health Centers. 115 units were constructed and are being used frequently.
2.2 Priority Solid Waste Management
The Sanitary Service of DKI Jakarta is the institution responsible for trash management in 75
sub-districts in DKI Jakarta included in the KIP Program of the Housing Service Office. Civil works
included the construction of 296 trash transits through two phases of construction, namely 158 locations
in the first phase and 138 locations in the second phase.
The cleaning of an informal garbage dump along side the Tarum Barat and Banjir Kanal was
canceled because the location was cleaned in the context of Prokasih (Clean River Program), so that the
program is assigned for flood prevention. Reclamation of the previous garbage dumps, namely the Final
Dumping Ground (LPA) on Jalan Cakung-Cilincing, East Jakarta; Jalan Cakung Cilincing, North Jakarta
and Srengseng South Jakarta, was conducted by using earth of 30 cm thick.
The procurement of trucks and containers for improving the capacity of garbage transportation
was conducted in two phases, namely 32 trucks and 100 containers having a capacity of 10 m3 in the first
phase, the operation of which is assigned to the Sanitary Service in five municipalities in Jakarta. The
second procurement was for 45 trucks and 127 containers leased to private parties managing sanitary
services for a certain period and used for trash collection and transportation. Thirteen private companies
used the aforementioned procurement and in this case the installments have reached the third year.
Technical assistance that has been completed including a study on improving recycling,
particularly the handling of secondary waste, designing and implementing garbage separation and pilot
projects in three sub-districts, namely Kebon Kacang, Kebon Melati and Petamburan.
2.3 Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (EPPC
- 21 -



BAPEDAL and KPPL/Bapedalda DKI Jakarta, as institutions concerned with environmental
problems, have taken the following actions:
1. Strengthening the institutions and training in the supervision and implementation of
environmental protection, including procurement of laboratory equipment.
2. Preparation of pollution control strategy.
3. Preliminary study on integrated industry waste processing and small scale industry producing
toxic waste. The institutional analysis study and enhancement of strategy are evaluations of the
institutional structure for environmental protection and pollution supervision in Jabotabek
regions. The results of the study on joint processing of liquid waste for industrial area and the
study on the reduction of waste of small-scale industry in DKI Jakarta are indicated in a
feasibility study on joint processing in three industrial areas, namely: Mookevart, Cipinang and
Pulogadung; concept designing for liquid waste processing facilities in eight industrial categories;
and various alternative activities for reducing waste in industrial areas.
In addition to technical assistance in the form of studies, procurement of laboratory equipment was also
procured in an effort to tighten up supervision on water, air and soil pollution.
2.4 Urban Spatial Management
A technical assistance package to review the Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP), Urban
Fringe Area Planning Studies and Land Use Map Updating, resulted in the following:
1 . Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Plan Review. This activity updated the Jabotabek
Development strategy plan prepared in 1980, following rapid urban development in the Jabotabek
region.
2. Urban Fringe Area Planning Studies. This study is a formulation of the direction of
development rapidly growing regions and contains a proposal for a medium-term infrastructure
development program in urban fringe areas of Jakarta as the main point of Jabotabek Metropolitan
development.
3. Land Use Map Updating for Botabek and the Establishment of Development Monitoring
System. This activity is an improvement of a routine updating procedure of Botabek land use map
and the development of a monitoring system, specifically in relation to the function and use of land
in certain areas of urban regions.
2.5 Implementation of Improved Infrastructure O&M
JUDPIII provides a separate component specifically for the implementation of improved
infrastructure and facilities Operation and Maintenance (O&M) in Jabotabek. The target is the overall
O&M management methods in various levels of government.
2.6 Major Drainage Program
Flood prevention project was an additional program in the context of preventing floods in DKI
Jakarta in 1996, by using loan No. 3246-IND JUDPIII. Projects comprising of LCB and ICB packages
have been implemented, namely in the form of civil works, procurement of equipment, and technical
assistance, the implementation of which was based upon the responsibility of the DKI Jakarta Public
Work Service Office.
All of civil works of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) package have been completed, comprising
- 22 -



of river/dam dredging, construction of dams, river normalization in several locations, such as Sunter
Selatan Dam, Grogol Sekretaris River, Sunter River, Petukangan River, Betik River, Ciliwung Canal,
Angke Poglar River, Buaran River, Pulomas Dam, Melati Dam, Ragunan Dam. Procurement of
equipment of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) packages is comprised of three packages, namely:
I .    Generators for Sunter Utara, Sunter Selatan, Setiabudi Timur, Rawa Kepa, Cideng, Grogol.
2.    Water pumps for Tomang Pump Station, Muara Angke Pump Station, Bimoli Station.
3.    Water pumps, pump houses, rest rooms for Sunter Selatan post.
4.    Ciliwung River Water Debit Management Panel Equipment.
Technical assistance was comprised of two packages in the form of Ciliwung river rehabilitation study,
which resulted in an environmentally friendly spatial guideline for the areas along the Ciliwung river. The
study on city drainage was an additional consulting assistance, which resulted in preliminary design,
bidding design, details of the design and assistance in bidd evaluation and project development
supervision.
Based on the "Economic Assessment" study, projects constructed in the context of flood prevention
program in metropolitan regions have higher economic value, so it is recommended that similar projects
be initiated, by considering sources of funds other than the State Budget, namely intemational financial
institutions such as IBRD, ADB or others.
3. Project Coordination
The project was coordinated by JUPCO (Jabotabek Urban Project Coordination Office) representing
Bappeda, which was assisted by consulting in implementing its duties. Since the establishment of JUPCO
(Govemor's Decision No. 919 year 1988) by virtue of contract 1, the consultants had undergone three
extensions, namely JUPCO expanded contracts as from November 1991 up to September 1992,
Addendum I as from October 1992 up to December 1992 and Addendum 2 as from January up to April
1993. April 1993 was the last month of Addendum 2. As from May 1993, under contract No. 679
A/1.712.35 dated August 12, 1993, the consultants started their work in accordance with the new
contract in January 1996 and then re-extended up to March 31, 1996. In the financial year of 1996/1997,
the consultants' contract was extended again to December 3, 1997. In connection with the implementation
of the Flood Prevention Program in DKI Jakarta, the consultant's contract was once again extended up to
December 31, 1999 and this was the third extension. In addition to co-ordinating and supervising the
implementation of all projects, specifically for projects complemented by Bappeda DKI Jakarta, JUPCO
had overall responsibility. In handling coordination and monitoring of JUDPIII in general, JUPCO
consolidated information from several project implementation units and prepared monthly and quarterly
project progress reports, covering civil works, procurement, technical assistance, financial affairs and
institutions. For the financial affairs, JUPCO also prepared "Consolidated Project Account Statements"
for the purpose of annual audits and the preparation of Project Completion Report (PCR). In general, the
role of JUPCO has been useful in coordinating and monitoring activities for all levels of JUfDPIII
program management.
4. Factors Affecting the Project
(i) Factors existing outside the Government - Problems related to land clearing in the flood prevention
program in DKI Jakarta was assigned to Package IV, namely Normalization of Pesanggrahan
River/Angke River, so the World Bank did not issue NOL [as it was agreed there would be no land
acquisition in this component]. The Public Work Service, as the executor, submitted an activity
- 23 -



application, namely Sunter River dredging Phase 11 (from Banteng Bridge to Kresek Bridge)[which had
no land acquisition]. This change of location was approved by the World Bank.
Exchange rate fluctuation was one of the factors beyond the Government's control.
(ii) Factors under the Government's control - The change of status of Tangerang Self-administrative City
into a Municipality caused the division of KIP JUDPIII project implementation authorities, since there
were four villages located in the Municipality and the other two villages were located in Tangerang
Regency. Principally, the Municipality authority agreed to continue the implementation; however, since a
formal agreement up to this moment has not been realized, responsibility for repaying the loan remained
in the hands of Tangerang Regency. A similar case also occurred in Depok Self-administrative City,
which has been upgraded into Depok Municipality; however, in this case, the authorities of Bogor
Regency have borne all responsibilities related to KIP JUDPIII projects.
(iii) Government Internal Project - The number of implemented projects and the increase of the
implemented program types will increase benefits as well as expenses. Expenses exceeding the stipulated
limit represent a lack of planning and supervision. A tight budget policy must be applied in the future.
5. Project Continuation
a. Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) - Generally, the continuation of the KIP program in DKI
Jakarta is confronted with problems mainly caused by a lack of environmental awareness as well as a lack
of community participation in development. This is because: (a) the basic concept of KIP has not been
well socialized, both to the community and the relevant institutions; (b) the long time span between
planning and implementation makes people forget the plan and loose hope for social and economic
improvement; and (c) difficulty in eliminating ignorant attitudes toward the environment for seasonal
residents found in almost all locations of the KIP project.
The Study on Social and Economic Impacts of JUDPIII, in connection with KIP continuation,
recommends the following:
*   Good social preparation for all relevant parties, either residents or institutions as well as
community institutions.
O  The need of process continuation from planning, implementation or supervision.
*   The existence of productive business created when assisted by NGO.
In BOTABEK, the kampung improvement program applied the Tribina concept, but it still focused on
physical development. The problems in the continuation of this project are generally similar to those in
Jakarta. However, the BOTABEK Regional Governments had the opportunity to implement similar
programs by applying funds from ADB (Asian Development Bank) in the Metropolitan Botabek program
- Urban Development Sub Project (UDSP) Loan No. 151 1 -INO.
The physical activities carried out included the construction of a clean water facility, sanitation facility
and roads, for which implementation has entered it second year. Continuing to improve operation and
maintenance of facilities through technical guidance in the application of O&M had been performed
through programs financed by ADB, in the form of Botabek Urban Development Program (UDP) Loan
No. 1 077-INO. This program had been implemented by involving technical institutions in the respective
Regional Government. In addition to the above, a proposal has been submitted for the extension of KIP
Tribina program in the West Java-Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJEMP) program of the
World Bank.
- 24 -



b. In Jakarta the scope of the garbage collection service involving private parties will be expanded to
cover Botabek, by conducting efforts in the form of joint management of garbage in Jabotabek, and
construction of a compost factory as well as utilization of the same in agribusiness.
Solid waste of DKI Jakarta is presently transported to one of four final dumping grounds (LPA),
namely Cakung, Srengseng, Kapukj Kamal and Bantar Gebang. However, the first three LPA have been
closed, while Bantar Gebang is in the process of closing. As the four LPA are closed, Regional
Government of DKI Jakarta needs to decide on a solution as soon as possible.
Privatization of garbage management is actually an alternative solution for Jakart'a solid waste
problem. Private parties have tried to improve their services, especially in protocol areas. Moreover, the
Regional Government of DKI Jakarta has also improved the supervision of providing equipment.
However, based on the report on Garbage Affairs Privatization issued by the City Hygiene Department,
the service fee charged by private parties is far higher (20%) than that charged by the government. Such
a high fee needs to be adjusted to a level of the comnmunity's purchasing power so that privatization,
which is deemed better than being handled by the government, can finally be conducted in Jakarta and
BOTABEK.
A pilot project of Resources Recovery (recycling program) at the household level, in the form of
garbage separation, has been implemented in three places, namely: Kebon Melati, Kebon Kacang and
Petamburang Sub-districts in Tanah Abang District. This project was supposed to be a part of the solid
waste processing program at the city level. However, this program has not been followed up. Thus, the
residents are not aware of the need to separate garbage. If this program was well managed, it would
increase community income. In this case, a serious program of the City Hygiene Department is required.
c. To continue the environmental protection and pollution control program, a concept along the lines of
the PROKASIH program for the year 2000 has been prepared, and other programs, such as the blue sky,
will follow. A proposal has been submitted for a socialization and training program for Heads of
Districts, Heads of Villages/Sub-districts and their staff on Environmental Protection and Pollution
Control/EPPC; industrial waste management for small- and medium-scale industry; poisonous waste
management for the welding industry; and a program for continuing and improving the PROKASIH
program. For the continuation of laboratory equipment procurement, a proposal has been submitted for
funding environmental laboratory training program in level 2 regions. The program, which is being
proposed to the World Bank through the West Java-Jakarta Environmental Management Project
(WJJEMP) program, is currently in the preparation process.
d. The results of the Technical Assistance for POMMS have not been applied in BOTABEK. The
implementation of this assistance was conducted only in several training performed in BOTABEK. The
training has not been followed up because of the following problems:
-     There has been no clear and integrated policy for overall handling;
-     There has been a 'bias' in determining maintenance strategies, in which rehabilitation is more
prioritized rather than preventive maintenance;
-     There are no clear guidelines in the cities regarding the boundaries of operational and
maintenance responsibilities;
-     There is still a preference for self-managed maintenance rather than privatization.
In the context of improving operation and maintenance (O&M), a similar project has been implemented in
East Java and Bali, in an effort to continue and develop this program.
- 25 -



e. The presence of the Jabotabek Urban Project Coordination Office (JUPCO), which is an extended
hand of the Bappeda DKI Jakarta in co-ordinating and supervising the implementation of project
activities, is dependent on the policy of the Regional Government in appropriating the World Bank Loan
in its project implementation. While the continuation of this project is being considered, the experience
gained in handling projects financed by the World Bank Loan can be used for other projects.
6. Bank's Performance
Based on the formula set forth in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) document and the Loan
Agreement, the World Bank's performance during the process of identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision can be deemed as very satisfactory.
Review by the World Bank on the contracts in the 'procurement process is generally deemed too
complex by some executing institutions, since it sometimes takes a relatively long time. The institutions
suggest that the World Bank should delegate the authority to the World Bank representative in Jakarta,
especially for NOL approval on ICB, so that there will be no project activities that must be conducted
before the closing date or may even exceed it.
7. Borrower's Performance
All of the implementation components of physical project, procurement and technical assistance as
well as loan agreement have been implemented. Therefore, the main objective of the project has also been
achieved. The problems that occurred during implementation, such as land clearance or delayed fund
disbursement, were overcome through coordination with the relevant institutions. In general, the
borrower's performance has been satisfactory.
8. Assessment of Outcome
All projects have been completed and have met/achieved the main objective targeted in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), such as physical works, financial and the management thereof, and the
achievement can be used for activities in the future.
10. Key Lesson Learned
The kampung improvement project requires co-ordination with other sectional institutions, the
presence of sectional program integrity in handling social and economic development in the future will be
able to overcome the confuision and apathetic attitude of the community.
It is necessary to strive for continuation of funds allocation in order to avoid stagnation in the
development activities, so that the process of community independence in managing its business can be
continued.
Projects having so many works packages require project management specialists to be involved
from the beginning. Standardization of report formats for each works package will make it easier to
conduct documentation and evaluation.
BORROWER COMMENTS ON ICR
Letter of June 14,2000 from Prof. Dr. Ir. Herman Haeruman, Deputy Chairman for Regional and
Natural Resources, BAPPENAS
Quote
- 26 -



Dear Mr. Varrna,
Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Ln. 3246)
Draft Implementation Completion Report
Thank you, for the submission on the draft of Implementation Completion Report. I am very pleased to
hear that this project was rated satisfactory. Our comments on this ICR are as follows:
1. This project has succeeded to become a development model of small scale infrastructures through
participation mechanism and been proven better in its sustainability compared to the top down mechanism
without community participation as commonly occurred in other Urban Development Projects. This is a
worth lesson learned in the way that with parcipatory approach the society can be involved in carrying out
relatively cheap maintenance works for simple infrastructures, such as MCK, water terminals, public
wells, public trash facilities etc.
2. This project was also effective for empowering conmnunities affected by the economic crisis which was
very relevant with the recent need and condition. We understand that there were unsimilarities between
the old JPS and CEG- JUDP III that were confusing the community in the way the project used credit
scheme. Actually JPS such as PDMDKE also used credit scheme run by community organization in the
form of revolving fund. Continous improvement of the program is necessary considering the changing
situation caused by the economc crisis.
3. Infrastructure maintenance works were rated Unsatisfactory. The lack of commitment from the local
government to increase budget allocation for operation and maintenance as recommended by POOMS
study indicated that until this time the local government give higher priority to development and others
priorities. Now it is the most suitable time that the council and community are more critical to urge the
local government to serve better infrastructures.
4. Project Coordination was also rated unsatisfactory because it did not effectively to run the coordination
function. As JUPCO was set up in Bappeda DKI so it was understandable that it created enough
difficulties since JUPCO/Bappeda had to coordinate 4 local governments which three of them were not
under its hierarchy such as Kab. Bogor, Kab. Bekasi and Kab. Tangerang and other 3 ministries, (ex
Directorate General Human Settlement, Ministry of Home Affair and State Ministry of Environment).
Moreover, as JUDP was the first UDP therefore the GOI was still in the process of looking for the most
suitable exxecuting agency. For the following UDP the executing agency is set up in the ex directorate
General of Human Settlement and the coordination so far has been relatively better.
5. Drainage and Flood Control as an additional program in JUDP-3 was relatively effective to solve
inundation in certain areas. It is hoped that the impact of big flood as occurred in 1996 will never come
again in Jakarta. Besides continuation of flood control, DKI still has other necessities like the provision
of road and fly-over, mass rapid transport, the continuation of KIP program, urban renewal and so forth.
We believe that the Bank will continuously support local governments' efforts especially DKI to make
Jakarta a healthy and comfortable city.
We would like to thank you for your kind assistant.
Deputy Chairman for Regional and Natural Resources
- 27 -



Herman Haeruman Js
Unquote
Letter from Ms. Budhy Tjahjati S. Soejiyoko, Director General of Urban Development
Quote
Subject: Draft Implementation Completion Reprot of JUDP III (Ln. 3246-IND)
Dear Mr. Hoomweg,
This refers to the Aide Memoire of the Bank's Last Supervision and Completion Mission of the Third
Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP III Loan) in April 2000 and the discussions on Draft ICR
with the project's stakeholdes on 27 April 2000 and 9 May 2000; please be advised our concurrence with
the Draft ICR.
We have no objection, in principle, for your finalizing the report, provided that the comments and
suggestions concluded at the meetings are accommodated in the final ICR. We do share your concern on
the non-performing project coordination and maintenance, as well as the need to increasing the role of
women and sustainability of the development impacts.
We are hoping that the final report would specifically adress the matters above and those arising from the
result of the Joint CPPR for overall urban development projects in the country.
Thank you for your assistance and continued cooperation.
Sincerely yours,
Budhy Tjahjati S. Soegiyoko
Director General of Urban Development
Unquote
(b) Cofinanciers:
not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
On May 8, 2000 the executing agency invited all NGOs, and representative community leaders,
who participated in JUDPIII KIP to a review workshop. Following are their comments.
YIS (Yayasan Indonesia Sejahtera)
* Through KIP assistance, local community based organizations grew and developed. The people become
more aware about what is going on around them, and some wanted to participate in the process and in
decision making.
* The people appreciate the micro credit for income generation.
*   How far the community contribution is expected for the operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure and common facilities, is not clearly defined.
* Community development is a continuous process, which should not be limited only to a short project
period.
- 28 -



* Cross sectoral coordination was very weak. During the economic crisis, many other assistance
programs came with different procedures and criteria, which damnaged the schemes already developed
with the community. This new assistance had very short social preparation and did not pay much
attention to sustainability and accountability.
LP3ES (Institute for Research, Development and Education for Economic and Social Development)
* There are still questions on whether KIP focuses on Urban Improvement or Poverty Alleviation.
* Tribina is much appreciated.
* Government policy on spatial planning has clearly not helped the poor. Distinction between areas for
KIP and Urban Renewal should be clearly defined.
* Linkages between macro and micro planning needs to be improved.
* Coordination with other programs was weak.
* Community development should be the main priority
* Community involvement can start with doing something to help themselves, then taking care of their
commnon problems, and then it can develop into a powerful civil society which cares about the bigger
macro problems.
LSP (Institute for Development Studies)
 Weak coordination with other agencies. Criteria and guidelines for various programs should be
synchronized.
* The local bureaucracy has not been fully commnitted to participatory process. Stronger support for
community development from various agencies is needed.
D Many local community organizations which have grown and developed should be used for further
development.
*   Charity-like programs should be minimized. Assistance should focus on community development so
that the people can be stronger and more independent.
LSIK (Institute for Community Studies)
*   In general KIP has benefited the poor.
* It is important to have a more professional institution to manage the revolving funds. The local
community management taking care of the micro credits needs strengthening, improvement, and
adjustments.
*   There are too many programs (outside KIP) with the same objectives.
Puspaindah
* The squatters on critical areas are usually not yet represented. They need to be fully included. Some of
them are already included and so far they have a good sense of responsibility. A lot of their working
groups are successful.
* Charity-like assistance such as distribution of cheap rice needs to be gradually decreased. It creates
more dependency.
* Weak coordination.
* Some of the Kelurahans are good.
* Many of the local community organizations which have been developed during KIP are not used for
future development.
LPPSE (Institute for Social and Economic Studies and Development.
*   There is a lot of community assistance which is based on political interests. There are many NGOs
which act more as consultants, and very much help community empowerment.
* The community institutions developed were based more on formalities. They need real "life" and "soul".
- 29 -



* Proposals are too rigidly channeled through the three windows (physical, social, and economic groups).
* The Government should develop a "Coordination Team" to synchronize different assistance and
community development programs. The situation now is very confusing.
* LKMD and other government institutions are often useless.
Bina Swadaya
* There are gaps between parts (periods) in the KIP implementation, which made it difficult for the
facilitators to provide continuous assistance. Most NGOs continue facilitation even after the contract is
finished.
* Balance between macro and micro solution is important
* At the beginning, there was apathy among the people, because of previous centralized and topdown
decisions. Gradually through friendly communication, consultations, and transparent activities, they
regained confidence on community organization and management.
*  The incentives given to the community have been very useful. The family productivity has improved.
* The CBEC style was good, unfortunately the time was very short.
Mr. Hasyim (community representative from Kampung Melayu)
* Tribina is very useful. More assistance for job creation and income generation is needed.
O The people are very concerned with the serious yearly flooding.
*   Some of the cooperatives which have been well developed by the community during KIP were taken
over by the Kelurahan.
Mr. Nana Suryana (community representative from Central Jakarta)
* In general KIP was satisfactory.
*   The community organizations established a communication forum for Central Jakarta.
* There are still a lot of very poor people with very low income. They want continuation of KIP.
* There is confusion in responding to different programs. Government should be more careful in
developing guidelines for different prograrns.
Mr. Abdul Muin (community representative from North Jakarta)
* Tribina has been very useful. As a remembrance of the appreciation of the community, one street in
Warakas was given the name "Tribina"
*   Many community leaders have been active in the LKMD, so there is no problem with LKMD.
* The poor community which formerly did not care about their settlements, are now very motivated.
Their settlements are now much better and they are proud of it.
* There are still many kampungs which wait for improvements. Assistance to the poorest group needs
strengthening.
Mr. Subiyakto (community representative from Gandaria, South Jakarta)
* Fortunately the Lurah and LKMD in Gandaria are very supportive. There is no problem.
* The community is very proud of their greening activity which has won recognition and award. They
grow herbal plants which are very useful for their families.
*   Public toilets are well maintained and community solid waste management has kept the kampung clean.
- 30 -



10. Additional Information
In addition to the Government's 2000 Completion Report, a Completion Report was prepared for the
Botabek (Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi) KIP component. This report provided a comprehensive review
of the impacts of KIP activities in the 14 participating kampungs. Following are the Botabek KIP
Component ICR Recommendations (1996).
"I.    The Project was implemented successfully, and project benefit monitoring and evaluation were
carried out. Nevertheless due to the likely increases in facility utilization and further small scale business
development, future monitoring is advised. This would provide additional feed-back on the sustainability
of the KIP and the Tribina community-based KIP approach.
2.    In Kabupatens Tangerang and Bekasi, locally initiated KIP programs are being further
developed. Consideration should be given to how, and in what capacity, the provincial and national level
agencies, particularly the Directorate General of Human Settlements, can assist local govermments and
facilitate the development of local KIPs.
3.     To ensure the sustainability of the KIP facilities, O&M needs, as well as the organizational,
institutional, and procedural arrangements to perform effective O&M, must be reviewed and
strengthened.
4.     For the improvements in local income generation and business development, preparation of the
prescribed mechanisms and procedures for small scale credit is required, as is support in identifying
product markets and employment opportunities. It is recommended that follow-up action be taken to
support the local governments' endeavors.
5.    As the bottom-up/top-down process adopted for the JUDPIII Botabek-KIP has been successful in
enabling the beneficiaries to prioritize investments within the available budget allocation, it has resulted in
some environmentally sensitive facilities being neglected, e.g., public toilets. In all areas, the
communities gave highest priorities to roads and access paths which provided the greatest visual
improvement with little attention to other improvements such as sanitation services. Clearly, some
guidelines are needed to provide information on the levels of investment and service priorities, including
indicators of environmental benefits for each service to ensure a balanced program. It is recommended
that both sanitation and solid waste facilities be given greater attention in future KIP programs, with the
possibility of establishing a discrete program specifically for small scale sanitation and sewerage systems.
6.     With the respective kelurahans ranging in populations up to 62,000 inhabitants the opportunity
appears right to establish formal dedicated sewerage systems.
7.     Finally, while there are standard designs and specification for all KIP facilities, the
recommendation is that they may need to be revised to reflect the higher loadings and usage being
experienced in regard to kampung roads and in the construction quality of buildings to minimize future
maintenance costs."
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Improved quality of life in participating
kampungs:
-access to sanitation facilities      greater than 90%                       over 95%
-people affected by local flooding    less than 40%                          34%
-ratio of 'healthy houses'            greater than 85%                       greater than 95%
-access to credit                      greater than 50%                      34%
-ability to pay back loans            greater than 75%                       95%
-access to municipal water supply      greater than 90%                      50%
-local awareness/involvement about KIP  greater than 50%                     approx. 20%
Improved garbage collection in participating
kampungs:
-service coverage                      greater than 85%                      75%
-public satisfaction with service     greater than 80%                       50%
Storm Water Drainage:
-increased area protected from a I in 25 year greater than 150 ha            177 ha
flood event
Kampung and solid waste values are based on a compilation of University of Indonesia and IHS/AHURI
surveys.
Output Indicators:
KIP
Number of kampungs assisted           95,                                    109
MCKs operational                      75%                                    75%
Priority Solid Waste
Number of kelurahans served by        75*                                    86 - at an estimated 70% efficiency rate
secondary collection
Number of private contractors         56.                                    13
Urban Spatial Management
Quality of Studies                    Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Process & Stakeholder Involvement     Satisfactory                           Modest
Follow-up and Implementation          Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Pollution Control
Number of firms monitored             4000*                                  Est. 5000
Quality of Studies                    Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Process & Stakeholder Involvement     Satisfactory                           Modest
Follow-up and Implementation          Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Infrastructure Maintenance
Budgetary resources allocated          100% in DKI, 80% in Botabek           Less than 50%
Study Quality                         Satisfactory                           Modest
Process & Stakeholder                  Satisfactory                          Unsatisfactory
Follow-up and Implementation          Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
- 32 -



Storm Water Drainage
Successful completion of program (20  greater than 95% complete and operatonal all complete and operatmal
contract packages)
* Items denoted were original SAR tragets
The project was prepared before outcome/output indicators were required, and the original closing date of
December 31, 1996, was prior to the mandatory retrofitting date. The above targets and indicators are
consistent with the original "key implementation and performance indicators" in the 1990 Staff Appraisal
Report (except flood control targets which were not in the original project).
Physical Output Indicators for KIP
Jakarta
Neighborhood roads constructed:         296,682 m
Neighborhood roads rehabilitated:       141,116 m
Pathways constructed/rehabilitated:     236,577 m
Public toilets constructed:             36
Water facilities provided:              27 public stand pipes, 81 rain water containers, 11 water
terminals, 49 fire Hydrants:
Trash carts provided:                   2,243
Trash containers:                       3,446
Primary drainage channels constructed:  14,827 m
Primary drainage channels rehabilitated:    159,346 m
Secondary drainage channels constructed:   401,848 m
Secondary drainage channels rehabilitated:  617,817 m
Community centers constructed:          31 (plus 21 sports facilities, 6 parks, 3500 tree pots)
Health centers constructed:             9
Houses repaired:                        221
From: Biro BLR, DKI Jakarta, 1997 - quoted in "Miscellany of Kampung Improvement Program", Prof.
Dr. Charles Surjadhi, Atma Jaya University
Botabek
Neighborhood roads constructed:         83,514 m
Pathways constructed:                   8,890 m
Public toilets constructed:             61
Water facilities provided:              26 public standpipes
Drainage channels constructed:          60 km
Community centers constructed:          115
From: Government of Indonesia, Project Completion Report, KIP Botabek, 1996
End of project
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
KIP +                                                  58.40           54.60             93
Priority Solid Waste                                    8.40            5.24             62
Pollution Control & Env. Monitoring                     4.60            4.50             98
Urban Spatial Management                                3.90            2.94             75
Infiastructure Maintenance                              0.90            0.92            102
Storm Water Drainage*                                                   11.21
JUPCO Running Costs                                     1.20             1.01            84
Total Baseline Cost                                    77.40            80.42
Physical Contingencies                                 5.00            0.00              0
Price Contingencies                                   14.60            0.00              0
Total Project Costs               97.00            80.42
Total Financing Required                97.00           80.42
* "Stonn Water Drainage" was added as a project component.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                     0.00         44.80         7.90         0.00         52.70
_______________________ =   (0.00)       (23 .80)      (4.20)       (0.00)       (28.00)
2. Goods                     9.60          1.90         0.00         0.00          11.50
(8.50)       (1 .70)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (10.20
3. Services                  0.00          0.00        25.90         0.00         25.90
& Training                  (0.00)        (0.00)       (22.80)       (0.00)       (22.80)
4. Small-scale credit        0.00          0.00         0.00         6.40          6.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Land                      0.00          0.00         0.00         0.50          0.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      9.60         46.70        33.80         6.90         97.00
_   (8.50)       (25.50)      (27.00)       (0.00)       (61.00)
Amounts in parenthesis exclude cofinancing from the Japan Grant Fund.
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (ActuaVLatest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                     0.00         44.68         4.30         0.00         48.98
_                  ~~~~~~~~(0.00)  (23.87)    (2.30)       (0.00)        (26.17)
2. Goods                     9.71          1.90         0.00         0.00          11.61
(8.83)       (1.73)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (10.56)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         19.84        0.00          19.84
& Training                  (0.00)        (0.00)       (18.04)       (0.00)       (18.04)
- 34 -



4. Small-scale credit            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Land                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         9.71           46.58          24.14           0.00           80.43
(8.83)        (25.60)        (20.34)         (0.00)         (54.77)
Amounts in parenthesis exclude cofinancing from the Japan Grant Fund.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Comonent in US$ million equiva lent
.A -  k    -      f `F.                          I -kP       . &      ;k      -
................s..._ _ _......._                                     _   _           _     ~     r
KIP +                    43.60      31.20                28.31      26.29              64.9   84.3   0.0
Priority Solid Waste      7.50      3.00                 4.23       1.01               56.4   33.7   0.0
Pollution Control & Env.  3.90      0.50       0.60      3.68       0.28       0.55    94.4   56.0   91.7
Monitoring
Urban Spatial             4.00      0.40                 2.85       0.29               71.2   72.5   0.0
Management
Infrastructure            0.90      0.10                 0.92       0.10               102.2  100.0   0.0
Maintenance
Storm Water Drainage*                                    9.38       1.84                0.0    0.0    0.0
JUPCO Running Costs       1.10      0.10                  1.01      0.10               91.8   100.0   0.0
* "Storm Water Drainage" was added in 1997 as a project component.
The above figures apportion the price and physical contingencies in "Appraisal Estimate" as calculated in
the SAR.
- 35 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
KIP
For the KIP component, a simplified one-step approach of measuring increases in land values has
been used to quantify the economic benefits derived from provision of various basic infrastructure under
the component. However, land values in kampungs change for various reasons, and they are not necessarily
physical investments, such as those under the KIP component. In general, land values tend to increase, even
in constant prices, in most places regardless of physical investments. Therefore, in order to single out the
effects of KIP, some "controlled" analysis is necessary. In order to do this, land values in kampungs which
were improved and those in similar adjacent kampungs which were not improved were compared.
At project appraisal, from previous experience under the Third Urban Development Project (Urban
III; Ln. 1653) and the Fourth Urban Development Project (Urban IV; Ln. 1972), some 20% to 70% of the
economic intemal rate of return (EIRR) was expected as an indicative estimate. OED's Impact Evaluation
Report on KIP (June 1995) reaffirmed the promising economic benefits by re-evaluating the impact of KIP
under the Jakarta Urban Development Project (Ln. 1040), Second Urban Development Project (Urban Il;
Ln. 1336), Urban III and Urban IV. OED found the EIRRs under these four projects ranged from 26% to
31 % over a useful life of 15 years.
Under JUDPIII, there were monitoring arrangements of land values while it was being implemented
in order to obtain more reliable figures for economic analysis. According to the results of the monitoring
which were shown in the "Botabek-KIP Project Implementation Report (December 1996)," after adjusting
for inflation and eliminating non-KIP effects by using control samples, the actual land value increases
ranged from -26% (negative) to 163% with an average of 27%. On the cost side, for every rupiah of the
project investment funded by the Loan funds and government's counterpart funds, some Rp 0.43 was
invested by the residents of the kampung as a "community contribution." But the total investment per m2 of
salable land, assuming 60% of the gross area is salable, was Rp. 720 on average. These translate into an
overall EIRR of some 500%, clearly indicating that this component is highly justifiable economically.
Indeed, it is not very meaningful to use EIRR for an extraordinary economic benefit case like this. One
hypothesis which could explain this would be that, through the implementation of KIP, the government is
sending a strong signal that it will not redevelop (e.g. bulldozing) the affected kampungs for the foreseeable
future. Although "illegal" kampungs were excluded from JUDPIII, this hypothesis is quite plausible given
the current highly segmented property right system in Indonesia ranging from full ownership (Hak Milik) to
totally illegal squatting. It is also worth noting that the mobility of the kampung residents was very low. For
the six "priority kampungs" (i.e. Sukamaju, Pondok Cina, Dadap, Bedan, Kalibaru and Bintara Jaya), only
0.6% and 0.9% of the total residents moved out in 1989 and 1996, respectively. This might reflect an
absence of well-functioning property market for the kampung residents (because if there had been one,
more people would have cashed in on the sudden capital gains on their plots and moved out). Having said
that, there must be some social and cultural aspects to this immobility, too. For the same six "priority
kampungs," 1.3% and 3.3% of the total residents were added to the populations as "new comers" in 1989
and 1996, respectively.
- 36 -



Changes in Land Price (per m2) 1989/90 - 1996197
*                         ~~~~~~~~~~(Co'nstant 1996 Rp),
1989/11990               9i97
Location      Average  Average  Average  Average  Av.erage  Hypothetical Area     KIP
for KIP    for    for KIP  for KIP    for    Land Value  (ha)  Expenditures
Area   Adjacent, Area  ,Area after; Adjacent ,Increase         per Salable
before  Non-KIP  beoe!I    Non-KIP 'from 1989/90,              m2 (Project
KIP     Area     KIP               Area   to 1996/97         Expenditures
due to KIP        + Community
(%)Coontr          butions)
kab6. B" ogo'r
Sukamaju              8,900,   8,900,  30,000:  50,00    30,000        67   388.0          61 1
Pondok Cina         142,600: 124,8001 150,0003 300,000  100,000       163%; 235.7:        1,006
Cisalak Pasar         22,300~                   75,000:                45%   165.0~       1,438
~Harja Mukti          44,600;                  15O,000                 456%  495.81         478
*uku'san178300124,800'                  1 150,0001 1 00,000;       5%    57.03         664,
:Pasir 'Gunung Selatan   35700   17,8001  75,0001 100,0001  20,000    19,  5.               945
'1711,300;400
,Tugu                 73014 4,6 00              80,000 i4,00            4%   500.2:         474
1 alo ya Tangerang
Dadap             1  53,500,  17,800i  50,0001 125,0001  30,000;       39%: 401.5!          566
1B -    -~~''                                        , ,
Benda                 8,900:   8,9 00   35,000   40,000;  30,000       33%1 250.8!         907
Cipondoh             17,800'.                  150,0001                45%, 5_9.            43
'Jurumudi Baru        26,7006          30,000o;  75,6000               45%   204.0:        1,114
u'dimara Timur      1 07,'000,;       66,0;1000                       45%, 151.4i         1,502
.Pondok Betung       142,600,         150,000~ 80,000:                 45%' 198.81         1,143
Kab. Bekasi
Kalibaru          1  53,5001  35,700J 150000   5,00                   100%r 282.1           883
Bitra aya          89,100   53,500~ 1 00,000! 150 O00&  10000-0              3             6
Bintara              53,500! 35,7003                                    0%,003?500W   00 0W  W  760.
'Jati Bening         107oi000   71,300         1 i060w  100,000         0%   514.2'         484,
,Jati Mumi            35,'700:  35,700: 1 00,000: 150,000;i 100,000    50%   305.5          81
Jiati "Warn'a        133,700   71,300 1   -    125,00Oj  90,000        -26%' 515.5,         483
Jati Sampurna  ~35,700: 35,7001500,                1 00,000       50%   305.5         816
-37 -



Explanation of Status          Compensation for
Land relbtie to
Hak Milik
IHak Milik (Full Ownership) with Certificaate         100%
Girik (Ownership Renewable with Go-ernment)           90%
Iwithout Certificate
Hak Usaha (Business-purpose Ownership)                80%1
Hak Guna Bangunan (Right to Build)
with Certificate          80%
without Certificate         70%
IHak Pakai (Right to Use) (10 years and 6 years)
with Certificate          60%.
without Certificate         50%
Hak Pakai (Right to Use) (3 years)                    35%/
Hak Sewa (Rental Right)
on prvate land           50%
on state land           25%
*Source "Study of Land Value Regulation in 30 K'elurahan in DKI
'Jakarta (1992)" .
For the KIP component of DKI Jakarta, however, a similar analysis became very difficult because
it was implemented later than that of the Botabek area and coincided with the Asia Economic Crisis and
subsequent economic and political turmoil. As a result, time-series land value analysis became almost
meaningless. Thus, a counterpart study on the DKI Jakarta KIP was not prepared. But it is probably safe
to assume that similar or higher economic returns were realized in the DKI Jakarta KIP as well.
It is crucial that the project be properly targeted at the poor and under-serviced kampungs as
intended if it is to achieve such high economic returns. During project implementation, extensive random
spot-checking was carried out to ensure that the selection of project sites was in accordance with the KIP
concept, and that the funds were not mistargeted to already serviced, more affluent parts of the city.
Drainage and Flood Control
This component was supplementing a larger drainage and flood control project through financing
of priority investments, which were identified in a previous JICA-financed master plan. The engineering
part of the analysis also depended on previous studies under the "East Jakarta Flood Control Project
(1989)" and JUDPII. GOI's economic analysis, titled "Economic Assessment for Drainage Improvement
Program of JUDP III," was reviewed. In this analysis, the economic benefits have been estimated primarily
based on the expected reduction in flood damage to household properties. Eleven project locations were
analyzed using probability rainfall of four different sets of intensity and return period (i.e., 2 years, 10
years, 25 years and 100 years), and existing hydrological and hydraulic models. Flood damage was
estimated at 5% of property value if inundated under one-foot-deep flood. The estimated flood damage
reductions were then annualized to represent the expected benefit stream. Capital investment cost estimates
and O&M cost estimates were used on the cost side. GOI's economic analysis originally included the
expected increases in land values, which were called "location benefit" and "intensification benefit." These
expected land value increases were, however, eliminated because this would be "double-counting" of
benefits. After correcting some minor methodological inconsistencies, such as the elimination of these
expected land value increases, and computational errors, it was concluded that this component yielded a
healthy EIRR of some 20% on average (See table below):
- 38 -



Original (before Correction)   Corrected
Sub-System         EiRR    |   BCR*         EIRR        BCR*
I Sunter Utara             19.16%         1.54       9.50%          1.23
2 Sunter Selatan           25.88%          2.32      17.27%         1.65
3 Sunter River             20.77%         2.02      15.31%          1.61i
i  4 Tomang                25.19%          2.32     18.29%          1 .65
5 Bimoli                   22.01%          2.06      15.44%         1.47i
6 Ragunan                  27.00%          3.18     28.15%          2.83
-7 Petukangan              18.58%          2.11      18.79%         1.88
8 Kepala Gading            26.52%          3.13     24.04%          2.48
9 Melati                   26.83%          2.17     20.60%          1.94.
10 Buaran                   25.48%         2.09      23.58%          1.86i
11 Pulomas                  31.93%         2.59      29.56%          2.31
Average                   24.49%         2.32      20.05%         1.90
*Benfit-to-Cost Ratio (using present values of benefits and costs discounted at 12%)
Furthermore, adding this project component was precisely in line with one of the primary
recommendations of OED's Impact Evaluation Report on KIP (June 1995) that "an upgrading program
should integrate flood control measures and drainage network at the citywide scale." This project
component directly and indirectly benefits some of the project KIP sites as well as other low-income
kampungs in the city. Therefore, although it was added rather late in the project implementation, this
component became a highly justifiable, integral part of the project.
- 39 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Mont/Year    Count        Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/89                         2    1 Community Development
Specialist, 1 Operations Officer
6/89                          8   2 Financial Analysts, 1
Community Development
Specialist, I Operations Officer,
I Economist, 1 Solid Waste
Specialist, 1 Sanitary Engineer,
1 Private Sector Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/89                       10   2 Financial Analysts, 2
Urban & Environment
Specialists, I Operations
Officer, 1 Solid Waste
Specialist, I Community
Development Specialist, I
Economist, I Sanitary
Engineer
4/90                          4    1 Financial Analyst, 1
Operations Officer, I
Community Development
Specialist, I Urban Specialist
Supervision
08/90                         5   1 Urban & Environment               HS
Specialist, I Policy &
Procurement Specialist, I
Operations Officer, I
Community Development
Specialist, I Financial
Analyst
11/90                         5   1 Urban & Environment               HS                HS
Specialist, 1 Operations Officer,
I Community Development
Specialist, 2 Financial Analysts
4/91                          6   1 Urban Planner, I Urban and        HS                HS
Environment Specialist, I
Economist, I Operations Officer,
I Community Development
Specialist, I Financial Analyst
11/91                         7  1 Engineer, I Economist, I           HS                HS
Urban Planner, I Operations
Officer, I Community
Development Specialist, I
Financial Analyst, I
Environmental Planner
- 40 -



07/92                         3  1 Operations Officer, I Financial   S                 S
Analyst, 1 Environmental
Planner
12/92                        3  1 Sanitary Engineer, 1               S                 S
Operations Officer, 1 Financial
Analyst
06/93                         4  1 Social/Economic Support           S                 S
Specialist, 1 Sanitary Engineer,
1 Community Development
Specialist, I Financial Analyst
02/94                         4  1 Operations Officer, 1 Financial   HS               HS
Analyst, I Community
Development Specialist, 1
Environmental Planner
08/94                         4  1 Operations Officer, I Financial   S                 S
Analyst, 1 Community
Development Specialist, 1
Environmental Planner
01/95                         3  1 Environmental Engineer, 1         S                 S
Financial Analyst, I Community
Development Specialist
04/95                         3  1 Environmental Engineer, 1         U                 S
Financial Analyst, 1 Community
Development Specialist
07/95                         4  1 Environmental Engineer, 1         U                 S
Operations Officer, 1 Financial
Analyst, 1 Community
Development Specialist
04/96                         3  1 Sanitary Engineer, 1 Financial    U                 S
Analyst, 1 Community
Developmen Specialist
08/96                         4  1 Environmental Engineer, 1         S                 S
Operations Officer, 1 Financial
Specialist, I Community
Development Specialist
08/97                         4  1 Sanitary Engineer, 1              S                 S
Operations Officer, 1 Financial
Analyst, I Environmental
Engineer
12/97                        3  1 Environmental Engineer, 1          S                 S
Operations Officer, 1 Civil
Engineer
7/98                         2  1 Environmental Engineer, I          S                 S
Operations Officer
10/98                        3  1 Environmental Engineer, 1          S                 S
Operations Officer, I Civil
Engineer
2/99                          4  1 Environmental Engineer, I          S                S
Operations Officers, 1 Financial
Analyst, I Civil Engineer
- 41 -



ICR
04/00                        5   1 Environmental Engineer,           S                S
I Operations Officer, 1
Urban Development
Specialist, 2 Urban
Specialists
(b) Staff
Stage of Prjetd Cycle                   ActualLet Estimate
___________________S:fL :;    .  No. C:78?30.Sidwtaff weeik  US$ (,O00)
Identification/Preparation             118.7                   223,700
Appraisal/Negotiation                  35.6                     100,100
Supervision                           272.7                    675,500
ICR                                       8                     30,000
Total                                   159                   1,129,300
- 42 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                            O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                OH OSU-M ON ONA
Z Institutional Development                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
M Environmental                            O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
X Poverty Reduction                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
ZGender                             OH OSUSM ON ONA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Improved Local Governance
E Private sector development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
B Other (Please specify)                   O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Municipal Service Delivery
- 43 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHSOS OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHSOS   OU  OHU
 Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
* Government implementation performance             O HS * S  0 U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   OU   O HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  O HU
-44 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*     Assessment of Popular Participation of KIP JUDPIII - November 1993. 48pgs.
*     Strategies for a Sustainable Greater Jabotabek - Inner City Neighborhood Development
and Community Participation, July,1996. 50pgs.
*     Framework for Monitoring and Evaluation of KIP- March-1995-14pgs.
*     JUDPIII- Project Implementation Report- Annex 2 Summary Data on 14 Secondary
Kelurahans Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation- December,1996- 200pgs.
*     JUDPIII Project Final Report (Project Implementation Report, Botabek KIP). December,
1996. 61pgs.
*     Enviromnental problems at Household Level: A Case Study of Jakarta (preliminary
findings): Seminar on Urban Environment and Human Welfare In Southern Cities.
*     Household Environmental Problems in Jakarta. 1994. 58pgs.
*     Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDPIII. Final Report. July, 1996.
*     JUDPIII Project Implementation Report. Annex 1 - Summary Data on 6 Priority
Kelurahans. Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation. 50pgs. Annex 3 PBME Photographic
Record of KIP Facilities. 1 9pgs December, 1996
e     Review of Kampung Improvement Program Evaluation in DKI Jakarta. Final Report.
September, 1998. 76pgs.
*     Indonesia Impact Evaluation Report: Enhancing the Quality of Life in Urban Indonesia.
The Legacy of KIP. Report No. 14747-IND- June 29, 1995. 143pgs.
*     Letter from Bambang Sungkono, Chief of JUPCO, regarding the perfonnace of JUPCO
during project implementation. June 12, 2000 5 pages.
- 45 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Evaluation of Social and Economic Impacts of JUDP III - January 2000
Laboratory of Sociology
Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, University of Indonesia
As part of project review LabSocio, University of Indonesia, carried out a comprehensive
evaluation which included household surveys, in-depth interviews, secondary data analysis, and
focus group discussions.
The household surveys were carried out in 20 of the 85 DKI Jakarta kelurahans (2 of the 8
were prone to flooding, 5 of the I 1 received Community Environment Grants, 13 received
services facilitated by contractors. These were proportionally divided into the 5 DKI Jakarta
kotamadya). From each selected RW, 25 householdheads from three RT were sampled; thus a
total of 500 households were surveyed. Heads of households were surveyed (resident in the
kampung for over 10 years).
A possible bias in the survey is that it was administered to "heads of households" who are
usually men. Another limitation is that the survey did not differentiate between the four groups of
KIP areas assisted through JUDP III, i.e. consultant-managed (MHT III), CEG1, CEG2, and
CBEC. Further review of these groups is currently underway and was included in the focus group
discussions. The detailed focus group discussions however, made this distinction.
1) Involvement in KIP: yes (12%), no (81.6%), no answer (6.4%).
2) Benefits of KIP: yes (72.8%), no (24.8%), no answer (2.4%).
3) Expectations (recommendations) from KIP: other RTs will get their turn (8.4%), provision to
be continued (33.6%), not for roads only (17.8%), for venture capital (4.6%), other (17.8%), no
answer (I 8.8%).
4) Involved in credit union: pre 1990 - 22.4%, post 1996 - 34.2%.
Program Impacts
Physical
Indicator                            Pre 1990           Post 1996
People without sanitation facilities:  11.6%            2.2%
Access to MCKs:                      20.8%              22.2%
Water supply:
-Dragon (hand) pump:                30%                20.6%
-Water vendors:                     22%                4.8%
-PAM (utility):                     16%                36.2%
-Electric pump:                     0%                 34.2%
- 46 -



People affected by flooding:          45%                33.6%
Liquid Waste Disposal:
-Sewage:                             45%                46%
-Backyard:                           1.2%               1%
- Sanitation:                        47%                47%
-Other:                              4.6%               4.6%
Solid Waste Disposal:
-Container:                          64.6%              71.4%
-Sewage/Sanitation:                  1.2%               1.4%
-Unoccupied Land:                    13%                1.4%
-Rivers:                             5.4%               3.8%
-Other:                              13.8%              13.2%
Communitv Health
Pre 1990           Post 1996
Number of "sick people":              62.2%              59.2%
Rate of Absenteeism:                  15%                11%
Use of Health Services:               47.6%              49%
Land Values/Home Ownership/House Quality
1) A majority (53.4%) of respondents felt that their land values had increased.
2) Home ownership increased from 69.6% before 1990 to 74% after 1996.
3) House quality improved as seen by declines in use of substandard construction materials:
Indicator                      Pre 1990            Post 1996
Houses with palm roofs:         1.8%               0.8%
Houses with bamboo walls:       10.2%              3%
Houses with dirt floors:        12.2%              5%
Training Programs
Even though these programs were free of charge, people were often not interested (less
than 1% of households participated). From in-depth interviews, one cause of this was lack of
support from husbands who considered that women "were housewives, and they should look after
their children, and should not leave the house for training". Similarly the training of "Family
Planning Cadets" was not sustained throughout the project and the programn appears to have been
discontinued (and now part of the Department of Health's responsibilities).
Business Activitv
The level of business activity in KIP areas increased:
Indicator:                      Pre 1990           Post 1996
- 47 -



Food stalls                     5.4%               9.6%
Merchandise                     7.8%               9.4%
Mechanics                       0.6%               0.8%
Hairdressers                    0%                 0.4%
Materials                       0.2%               0.2%
Other                           11.2%              13.6%
IHS, Jakarta and Australian Housing and Urban Research Institute, AHURL Queensland
University of Technology
In 1999, 100 households each from Kampung Melayu and Tanah Tinggi were surveyed.
The findings are summarized below:
1) Average household size:           just under 6 people.
2) Status of home ownership:
- Own: 75%
- Making payments:  1.5%
- Renting:    21%
3) Reasons for living in kampung:
- Always lived here: 47.5%
- Close to job opportunities: 13.7%
- No other choice:   11%
- Followed spouse:  6.6%
- Closer to work:    5.1%
- Cheaper housing:  0.5%
4) Length of residence in kampung:
- Under 12 months:   1.6%
- 1-2 years:   1.6%
- 3-5 years:   5%
- 6-10 years:  14%
- 11-19 years: 10.9%
- 20+ years:  66.8%
5) Average monthly income:             Rp. 715,840
6) Household financial situation:
a) Pre-1997 crisis
financial situation "improved a little": 76%
financial situation "improved a lot":   7%
b) Post 1997 crisis
financial situation declined a lot":    41%
financial situation "declined a little":  36.5%
"difficult to tell"              12.5%
- 48 -



7) Access to services:
No access to municipal water supply:   almost 50%
Own their own toilet:             just under 70%
Had access to Public Toilet:       22%
No access to toilet:               9%
Garbage collection provided:       75% of households
8) Service satisfaction:     Satisfied       Dissatisfied    Neither
Water provision:         63.7%           3.9%             32.4%
Garbage collection:      50%             25%              25%
MCK:                     40%              10%             50%
Drains:                  36%              10%             54%
9) Contact with yayasan localUCBO:
* One of three persons knew of a CBO working in the kampung. Just 70% of those, i.e.
one in 5, had made contact, which all said, was easy to do.
* Only 11 % were members of a local credit union (KSM).
10) Patterns of lending:
a) 25% of households had obtained a loan through:
Yayasan local:               14.5%
KSM as member:               5.5%
Kelurahan:                   3.5%
SSN program:                 1%
b) Average loan size:           Rp. 461,225
c) Pay-back rates:
Currently paying back:       71%
Already paid back:           25%
Having difficulty paying back:   4%
Preliminary Conclusions
1)    Coverage of CBO and KSMs is not yet broad-based, but where there was contact, the
impact was positive.
2)    Coverage of urban basic services is still poor, e.g., garbage collection improvements are
needed, water quality is still an issue.
3)    Clearly KIP through CBO and KSM activities had some positive impact on the quality of
life of the urban poor.
4)    Provision of urban basic services needs to be expanded and such services alone are not
sufficient to break the cycle of poverty.
In addition to the two surveys summarized above, three comprehensive beneficiary surveys were
carried out during project implementation. They were:
1.    Assessment of Popular Participation of KIP-JUDP3. By LP3ES - Institute for Social and
- 49 -



Enonomic Research, Education and Information. June, 1995. (Representative household surveys,
i.e.visits, in 9 kelurahan, 30 households in each).
2.    Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDPIII
by, Haryatiningsih. July, 1996. (800 representative surveys)
3.    Review of Kampung Improvement Project. Evaluation in DKI Jakarta
by, Charles Surjadi, Haryatiningsih, Darrundono. September, 1998. (219 households interviewed)
- 50 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP ON KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT
LESSONS LEADING TO STRATEGIES FOR THE FUTURE
Jakarta, April 10-12, 2000
Cities of the developing world continue to grow rapidly. Within a decade or so the urban poor are
likely to outnumber the rural poor in many countries. Indonesia, through its Kampung Improvement
Program (KIP) which started in 1969, has been at the forefront in the development and implementation of
initiatives to address the basic services and development needs of the urban poor and to strengthen their
communities.
At the beginning of the new millennium, the international community is showing renewed interest in
assisting the poor. The World Bank continues to sharpen its focus on assistance to the world's urban poor.
The "Cities Alliances" supported by the World Bank, UNCHS and other donors, and within it, the "Cities
Without Slums" initiative for which former South African President Nelson Mandela is patron, are
examples. It is, therefore, appropriate that Jakarta, the birthplace of KIP, should host this international
workshop on the lessons learned from KIP leading to strategies toward better urban life in the future.
The workshop heard not only the history of KIP, its achievements, shortcomings and future
challenges, but also recent and proposed initiatives in other countries, including the Philippines, Sri Lanka,
Ghana and South Africa. It provided an excellent opportunity to exchange experiences, identify
opportunities and constraints, and put forward ideas to meet the present and future challenges of helping
the urban poor. The workshop and related beneficiary survey were part of the final review (Implementation
Completion Report) of the Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Ln. 3246-IND). The important
issues identified and discussed at the workshop, together with the conclusions and recommendations for the
future, as discussed in three working groups, are presented below.
I.   Social, organizational and management aspects:
1.    Parallel to Kampung Improvement, cities urgently need urban development policies and programs
that help the poor.
2.    Kampung Improvement develops social capital and empowers the community to strengthen its role
in planning, programming, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation.
3.    Planning and programming can be improved through community consultation and participation in
the decision-making process. A continuous and stronger community role in the implementation, monitoring
and evaluation also needs to be further developed.
4.    A transparent and participatory process is required to instill a greater sense of accountability
among the agencies, contractors, and other stakeholders.
5.    Social preparation is vital. Sufficient time should be allocated for community consultation. Simple
manuals should be available, explaining the minimum requirements and the role of each stakeholder.
6.    Capacity building of the various stakeholders is important. The capacity of local government in
implementing KIP needs to be strengthened. Selection criteria for NGOs should be developed to ensure
consistency in the quality of performance.
7.    Improved monitoring systems should be developed inside each community. An independent
complementary system such as "KIP Watch" should also be developed.
8.    The role of women is vital. Facilitators should assist in strengthening the role of women in the
preparation, implementation, and evaluation of community activities, particularly its quality and
effectiveness.
- 51 -



9.    Planning and implementing Kampung Improvement should underline integrated area development
coordination instead of using the sectoral approach. Synchronization of activities covering sites of different
administrative areas should be strengthened.
11.  Economic aspects:
1.    In addition to improving poor settlements, it is vital to help poor communities to improve their
productivity and income through training, credit facilities, and other assistance.
2.    Some of the community members are good entrepreneurs and innovative in responding to
opportunities and changes, while others have no entrepreneurship. Facilitators should carefully tailor
assistance to individual capacities.
3.    Rapid development of micro-enterprises and small production units should adjust to market
demand and capacity.
4.    Community enterprises can be one alternative to manage services for the community. Another
alternative is to have an individual be responsible for managing the service unit under close monitoring
from the community.
5.    Family business can be very efficient, using all potential resources in the family especially the role
of women. A lot of community businesses have been successfully managed by women.
6.    Monitoring and control mechanisms of revolving funds and community enterprises need to be
strengthened, emphasizing its transparency and accountability.
III. Environmental aspects:
I .    Kampung Improvement should cover not only provision of small infrastructure for poor
neighborhoods, but also improvements in the general environment of the settlements, and the quality of life
of its population.
2.    Kampung Improvement should be an integral part of the overall city development strategy. Urban
development policies should emphasize improvement of poor settlements through a participatory process.
3.    Environmental problems found in most of the kampung areas include: poor sanitation, flooding,
unsafe water, poor housing, air pollution (indoor and outdoor), poor garbage collection, lack of green/open
space. Future programs should place greater emphasis on addressing these problems particularly the
improvement of sanitation.
4.   Kampung Improvement should be based on the actual needs of the poor assessed through
participatory surveys, as well as measures to improve the general environmental quality of the area. It
should start from the community's awareness and consensus about their commnon problems.
5.    Kampung Improvement is a type of training and exercise for the community to develop consensus
on priorities and action plans, including simple spatial planning. The consensus needs to be formalized in a
written agreement.
6.    The commnunity should have a clear understanding of their rights and obligations, and their
opportunities and constraints in improving their settlements. They should also have a clear understanding of
their responsibilities in the operation and maintenance of common facilities such as public toilets, water
taps, garbage collection, etc.
7.    Kampung Improvement helps the poor, especially the poorest. It should also seek suitable,
acceptable, applicable, and replicable solutions for squatters in critical areas and land for public
infrastructure.
8.    Kampung Improvement may provide technical assistance and credit facilities for community
members who join local cooperatives to build simple houses together. This scheme should be synchronized
with the national housing policy.
- 52 -



Jakarta, April 12, 2000.
Miscellany of Kampung Improvement Program
As part of the workshop, research papers were commissioned. The workshop organizers prepared a book
on KIP compiling these miscellaneous papers. Contents included:
Thirty Years of Kampung Improvement Program (KIP), 1969-1999, From KIPI to KIPIII
Darrundono, Former Project Manager of Jakarta KIP. 19 pp
Notes on the KIP of Surabaya 1924 - 2000
Johan Silas, Lecturer at the Faculty of Architecture, ITS, Surabaya. 21 pp
Some Notes on Kampung Improvement Program in Indonesia
Eko Budihardjo, Rector/Lecturer of UNDIP, Semarang 2 pp
Urban Spatial Planning Equity for the Urban Poor settlements ("Urban Kampung") in the Inner-City of
Bandung
Mochtarram Karyoedi, Lecturer at the Faculty of City and Regional Planning, ITB, Bandung 26 pp
Kampung Improvement Program Using the Three-Pronged Approach in Improving the Environmental and
Health Conditions of the Poor in Jakarta
Charles Surjadi, MPH Center for Health Research at Atma Jaya Catholic University, Jakarta 16 pp
The Concept of "Tribina" as the Community Empowerment Model: A Critical Review
Paulus Wirutomo, Lecturer at the Faculty of Sociology, University of Indonesia, Jakarta 12 pp
Can KIP MHT Program Stop the Dehumanizing Process of the Kampung Dwellers? Should Different
Kampungs be Treated Differently?
Boedihartono, Lecturer at the Faculty of Anthropology, FISIP UI, Jakarta 16 pp
-53 -



Annex 10. A Brief Discussion on "Slum Upgrading"
Within Jabotabek two broad types of "slum upgrading" activities are undertaken, KIP and
"squatter assistance". Under JUDPIII some 2.5 million people were assisted through KIP activities;
usually the poorest within a recognized, i.e. "legal", neighborhood. Traditionally KIP however, has not
addressed the region's poorest who are usually "squatters" and generally live on land with no security.
There are at least 150,000 families living in these areas in Jakarta. Much of this land is unsuitable for
residential development, e.g. many of the 8,700 familles living on the flood plane of the Ciliwung River.
Local governments are generally reluctant to assist these residents since they are often transient (and do
not possess proper identity and residency cards), live in unsuitable areas, and helping them may
encourage more migration to the city.
Jakarta's Dinas Perumahan (Department of Housing) is now moving towards increased assistance
to squatter communities. This attitudinal shift was a major contribution of JUDPIII. The City
appreciates the political complexities in providing this assistance. For example, in Jakarta, the average
"illegal" family pays about 10,000 Rupiah per month to the local Lurah (government appointed leader).
Additionally the famnily must also pay rent, electricity and waste collection fees (about 8,000 Rp. per
month), and purchase local services such as food (Dinas Perumahan estimates that an "illegal" family
contributes about 750,000 Rp per month to the local economy). Clearly the poor can contribute much to
improving their quality of life. The role of the poorest within Jakarta's economy is increasingly
appreciated in terms of their purchasing power, labor contribution, and impact on infrastructure
development costs, e.g. cost of proper resettlement. The "politics of the poor" is also critical as Jakarta
recognizes that a sustainable poverty reduction program for all of the City's poor is needed and that they
need to be fully integrated within the City's economy. Pilot efforts are underway to address squatter
communities in Jakarta. These will likely include micro-credits, extensive community participation, NGO
involvement, and a keen focus on municipal service delivery, and health and education aspects. These
activities will be different from the traditional KIP interventions in that there will be less focus on
increases in land value and more focus on immediate quality of life improvements, e.g. health, security,
education.
JUDPIII's main contribution to KIP was i) the direct hiring of NGOs for project management and
community consultation (this happened pre-crises and Jakarta was the first local government to do so), ii)
wide-spread support for economic and social assistance - in addition to physical. iii) piloting process with
CEG I, CEG2, and CBEC activities in Jakarta during the three year project extension, and iv) integration
and application of KIP activities in Jakarta squatter communities, e.g. the recommendations from the
Ciliwung River Management Study financed under the project and DKI Jakarta's recent agreement to
begin applying KIP-type efforts to non land tenured squatter communities. This experience enables two
generic suggestions to be put forward on follow-on KIP activities.
KIP and Local Governance
KIP expanded broadly and rapidly across Indonesia since its inception in 1969. One of the reasons
KIP was so successful in replicating quickly was that it meshed with the existing political structure. Within
JUDPIII there was a gradual shift from a "top down" process to more participatory decision-making,
particularly with assistance from the NGOs. "Tribina" is appreciated by the community since it allows
them to match components to local needs. The Lurah is now assisted by non-government community
representatives in targeting the areas of greatest need.
Over the last three years Indonesia's political climate has changed. The government bureaucracy is
changing somewhat slower. New KIP efforts need to both encourage and assist local governments in
dealing with the changing dynamics of community "empowerment"; to encourage and develop
- 54 -



professionalism in local government; and to establish verifiable service delivery standards. KIP is
extremely well positioned to meet this new imperative, but to do so, it needs to move from a "project"
approach to a "service delivery" approach.
One of the greatest strengths of KIP is the process of community consultation it encourages.
Although the benefits of these activities are difficult to quantify, they should be given a prominent role
when designing new KIP activities. Previous community consultation was largely through the Lurah and
LKMD (local community council). As the democratization and increased accountability of these
government offices increases, KIP should again take advantage of existing political dynamics. The active
participation of residents is much more practical and applicable in smaller units than it is at the kelurahan
level with over 40,000 people. Local governments need to better acknowledge the role of RTs and RWs and
their facilitators, in their ability to organize the community and improve service delivery. Higher, at the
kelurahan level, the LKMD should become more representative and better channel the needs and wishes of
residents. As the RT and RW become more active and aware of their rights and obligations, they will
provide critical inputs to the political and municipal service structure, which generally is from the Lurah
and above in Jakarta. This should help to achieve two critical objectives: first, a more representative and
fluid mechanism of local governance, and second, increased professionalism, i.e., less politicization of
municipal service delivery. Although it is extremely difficult to quantify, future KIP efforts will need to be
largely evaluated on their ability to increase trust and mutual support between the community and local
government.
The Need for Clear Objectives
During the ten years of project activity there were numerous changes that KIP needed to respond
to. Changes were usually administered easily. In future, activities would benefit from periodic evaluations
to sharpen KIP's focus. The comprehensive impact evaluation carried out by OED in 1995 studied four
main areas: (i) improvements in urban environment; (ii) changes in land values; (iii) institutional
strengthening; and (iv) sustainability.
As seen in previous sections and outlined in the beneficiary survey, JUDPIII's impact varied
widely. Other impacts that could be included in the evaluation include improvement of basic health, and
increase in average household income as an indication for poverty reduction. These broad indicators are
critical but they are all beyond the sole attribution of any single KIP project. For example, the extent to
which local environmental improvements were overwhelmed by a degrading city-wide environment.
Since KIP rightly varies from city to city and, in fact from neighborhood to neighborhood, the
objectives will vary spatially and over time. The extensive community consultation process encouraged
through JUDPIII was largely designed to help define who would benefit and how from upcoming KIP
activities. This is especially important since KIP has little direct cost recovery. Without clear objectives
there could be a bias towards physical activities, such as roads, which largely benefit the more affluent land
owners, and often, those in charge of the contracting process.
Prior to any future KIP activities the community and local government involved should explicitly
agree on the objectives. Again, these will vary, but could include the following:
Increase property values and where (this requires sensitivity as too large a focus often overshadows
assistance to the poorest);
Reduce diarrhea, skin diseases, eye and chest infections;
Increase average household incomes;
Increase number of people with easy access to clean water and sanitation;
Increase amount of solid waste collected;
Improve local governance (as measured perhaps by the number of community meetings attended by
government staff, percent of households   informed about KIP, level of cost-sharing between local
- 55 -



govermment and community, agreement and adherence to specific service standards, e.g.,
frequency and location of waste collection, satisfaction surveys);
Increase the role of women (especially on key KIP management committees).
The above possible indicators need to be clearly agreed upon before KIP activities commence.
There is also a need to have these indicators monitored before, during and after any program. The targeting
of areas for improvement, and agreement on objectives, benefits from the input of non-government
representatives such as academic or NGO personnel.
Consistent with better targeting, better baseline data is needed to objectively evaluate and improve
KIP-type activities. Much of this data already exists but far more attention needs to be devoted to
information management by all levels of government. Before activities start there should be agreement on
what will be measured, how and by whom. This should be kept very simple and there should be very little
need for consultant assistance.
Another key objective for future KIP activities in Indonesia is the need to seek acceptable and
replicable solutions for the squatters occupying threatened areas such as river banks and public
infrastructure sites. In the past, KIP did not address this issue as government officials feared that this
would lead to growing immigration and further occupation of marginal areas. Local governments, however,
need to address this issue, since the challenges - technical, social and political - will be even greater in the
future.
Bank clients will likely continue to want "local governance" projects such as KIP, and there will be
demands to continue to assist in the development of the community, in particular, strengthening the
relationship between the community and local government. Democratization and decentralization are
moving forward at a rapid pace in most client cities. A few key components of these governance projects
should include: specified community cost sharing; good monitoring of baseline data (preferably by the
community themselves as agreed-to by the local governments); prioritizing the provision of certain services
by local governments; and developing clear multi-year "service agreements" between the community and
local government. These should specify who will provide the service, when and how (JUDPIII provided a
preliminary design). The most important aspect of these projects will be building trust between the
community and local government. This is a slow process and an investment project has limitations to
provide this assistance; however as shown through KIP, progress can be made in this area.
Slum upgrading activities need to be flexible since conditions, and, therefore, suitable assistance
programs, vary by neighborhood. Cities would benefit from access to a simple methodology to determine
slum typology and some possible proven responses. The key areas for review will include standards of
service delivery including micro-credit, mechanics to improve local governance (e.g. improved service
delivery efficiency, accountability, community consultation, professionalism), and land ownership policies.
As slum upgrading programs proceed it is important to monitor simple baseline data, such as
health, environmnental and economic statistics, e.g. rates of infant mortality, water quality, rates of
unemployment and family incomes. Where possible this data should be collected and disseminated by the
community.
- 56 -



i  ' S a:':\ ! tj t" jz !u:  ""i.  t\S''t@ K j  ">w%'.l:>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"I'  MIWI,
RW~~~~~~~~~~~~'k
1! |; |M wm
!  |  rs  |  |  |  W  '"' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........
l ; fi I 0  0iR.~~~~5



0 S:g
;; g - w
:w
w <:  g f E g
_ ]11
\\fSuSl: a: :00E :E iE D:E tS f a: \E $ Et f S f? :ft X ::: t:DE
: \ ::
\E \, \ \



IBRD 22131F
JA A~
JAWA TENGAH  ..
JAWA TIMUJR
Cra  gi Cir-ebon,
oR.ngk.sbif.ng
I NDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT
n                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT (JUDP 111)
KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
U     KAM,PUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMA
N  Cibkmgb                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
-I-- RAILROADS
---~ RIVERS
0 SELECTED TOWNS
JABOTABEK BOUNDARY
r J-'   \  \t  '  ''-           -s-D.K.I. JAKARTA BOUNDARY
0      5 h0          1s     20      25
drs  loadon9 ah                                                                             I      I      KILIOMETERSKM
JUNE 20(






IBRD 22132R
--& ., .'ooop -  |    .,   ,   J A V A     S E A
J  A    V    A                     S  E                                                                                     A  RTA
( ' qr : . . X S 11-  :  I    0   0  f i frAK' JAWA BARAT
N    JAWA TENGAH  .- 
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <'-i'   *-</ND\I
rtt~~N  ,. :                                                                                                                                                      _ ;-X<POJEC  0   AT RGA
1   9   1   )   S             \  -ei-t 1tel   e   X               ~      -- X     J )     i (f   k                                 M 'OINT CO  YIOGWAT RTNT}AJY   FORJAWA TIMUR
Tonlang Prlok
CiI~~or g     T~~ Cir.ob,
R.ngko ibt-ng
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT
lun                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT (JUDP III)
Cibino  ~~~,i'  ~ ~ -                              POLLUTION  CONTROL AND  SOLID  WASTE PROGRAM
LQ2  INDUSTRIAL AREAS WITH- POTENTIAL FOR
I,,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JOINT COLLECTION AND TREATMENT
j /                            It I5!( a pea                                                                               CONCENTRATION OF SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES
'I<       )LeonAliong  ''      I wJ    --'2 I-                                     7 8\1   tl) 2   yJ  X   0   g  )  \                           SITES FOR WASTE
(i.                                                                                                                            DISPOSAL AND TREATMENT
\   I  ~   Cibung-olong+1    l/)  ,?  X \    if/   t     . i             X         /         N         ,                               GARBAGE DUMP SITES CLOSED
Cib..gb                                                                                              B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RNJIR CANAL - CONCENTRATION OF WASTE DUMPS
)."                                                 J                                                       -TO BRE CLEANED (done so under Prokasih program)
ROADS
-     RAILROADS
RIVERS
I'  Ii  C                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED TOWNS
JABOTABEK BOUNDARY
I  /                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.K.I. JAKARTA BOUNDARY
,,,,t,,,,,.,,,b,   S6                    /      ''C)  X...              s\                      a f
kOa*. waC vc                                                                                  'N        'I ')t
-,d.5IeW0                  s              *.                               -/ -n
orhn:@wAj'   ,,j0  5  10  15    20   25
wIFhOlpOf Wl  T. B.nounE   '~.'                                                                                 KILOMETERS
JUNE 200






IBRD 22133R
SSIMATF/
Tan ng Katang\
TA  hfp    IA VA SEA                                                                              JA VA   S EA                                 TANJUNG PRIOK
Ra b        a     ,     v       a               <,,,x,..!Uh<,,S'                           FCONSTRUCTION                                                                        -
IN D IAN E   S ICA N
S        )        4        6        8        151
KIL1OMEFTE RS
I N  DO0N  E S IA                                                                                                                                                               TR lAIN 'c  MAA/TL
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                                                          ,                                                           N I               R            P/AX)
PROJECT (JUDP 111)                                                    t I                                   7      1) \   
LINKAGES WITH SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (JUPD 11)
JUPD III:
KAMPUNG IMPROVENIENT SITES                           CISATANE TREATELD
WATER MAINS
JUPD I[:
-  EXCAVATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF CANALS     \                                                     -\
PRIMARY PIPELINES (WATER)                   SERPONC                             I
W S ATER TREATMENT PLANTS                                   CISADANE I WATIR  
SEWERAGE IMPROVEMENT AREA                              TREATMENTPIANT                j)     &  -
INVTAKf PUMPINI.Ct                                        ,    b    ,       ,       f 
STATIONTisnehabe, udr  b
EXISTING:                                                                                         a.orf  oAa.e
PRIMARY PIPELINES IWATERI                                                                                                                                                       " \
TREATMENT PLANTS                                                              /orpo,,t on. Theoaointio,,e
~ RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                           Sd,ant cn V'70 Peaoi ats,V
DK.I. BOUNDARY                                    \                                                                                                                                or So  t     of
JUNE 2000






IBRD 30970
16303                -                                                                             07100'
.J Cf  cJ      ~ec~
Muara Gebong
Mau                      Teluka
Naga   Ko__bi                JAKARTA
Seratan                                                                             Tanum
Raieg            I                                                               I       ' 0       1a
I  B.s  I  N St'                  u   S E   \ 
Pasr               /                                                            KdPgOdn                                   Tarnbelanq
Kemis                                             4lop                          uo    tt eBa6elan
Cikupa
Draikarm                                                              Corrs
Legok0                                                                 B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~antar
POrung                        Ser Pon    a /                                                   ebRT
'ii>     ~Cibarusa
Jonggol
0        5        10       15       20       25 Kilometers
Leuwiliang                         ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~r The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other infor.ation
shown on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaCries.
.06030'                                                                                              107-000
INDONESIA
THIRD JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Works
*     STORAGE (Retention) SITES (Project Financed)                   1,.      PORT
*     PUMP HOUSES (Project Financed)                                 0        SELECTED TOWNS
URBAN/INDUSTRIAL AREAS                                         &        KABUPATEN (REGENCY) HEADQUARTERS
- DANG UALSKOTA ADMINISTRASI (ADMINISTRATIVE CITY)
>  DRAINAGE OUTFALLS                                                    OR  KOTAMADYA (CITY) BOUNDARIES
MAIN ROADS                                                              DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
RAILROADS                                                               PROVINCE JAKARTA BOUNDARY
+   AIRPORTS                                                                   JABOTABEK BOUNDARY
JULY 2000






INDONESIA                                      ~~~~~~~106'30'              Java    Sea                                   170
THIRD JABOTABEK
URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                             , 
PROJECT (JUDP III)                                                                u
NATURAL FEATURES:
FISH PONDS                                                  Kre                                                                                   Tanumeatn~
~ZS~ FLOOD-PRONE AREAS                              k0
IRRIGATED RICE FIELDS 
UPLAND CONSERVATION ZONES                                                   0o6ln
OTHER AGRICULTURE                                          Blrj 
BaUa  
PHYSICAL ZONES:                                                                                                                                                       Ck
LOW LYING COASTAL: FLOOD'ING, SALINE
GROUNIDWATER, UNSUITABLE FRCug
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
LOW LYING PLAINS: FLOODING, MARGINAL
URBAN DEVELOPMENT 
HIGHLANDS: GOOD DRAINAGE, SUITABLE
POR URBAN DEVELOPMENT
STEEP SLOPING
MOUNTAINS
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE:
-    SERIOUSLY POLLUTED                                                                                  Prn
RIVERS AND CANALS
DRAINAGE OUTFALLS
HIGHLY POLLUTED WATER
OM   SELECTED TOWNS AND630
BUILT-UP AREAS                                                                                           emo
o KABUPATEN (REGENCY)
HEADQUARTERS
- --- KOTA ADMINISTRASI
(ADMINISTRATIVE CITY) OR                                                                   ew
KOTAMADYA (CITY) BOUNDARIES
-'  KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
~'  D.K.I. JAKARTA BOUNDARY
JABOTABEK BOUNDARY
o     5     10    15    20    25
KILOMETERS
The b-odoro, codor, desoiose    -yS~ other i.1,ofoeoios
~  I~sr oo this oup do eQ imply, o the po-t of Th. World Book
G-roP, coy joJgo,etoth logol ssolus of ooy terniosy, oroany                                                                                                                                                                   C> -
r  & odosesoo or occpsoo of soA hoo-do-io                                                                                                                                 Fi'



