                                                        46000
     Evaluation of The Sanitation
     Component of KIP JUDP Ill




                      Final Report
                           for
     UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program
Regional Water &Sanitation Group for East A$ia &the Pacific
                            by
                       Haryatiningsih
                         July 1996
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                              Page

l.     INTRODUCTION                                                                  1

       Background of KIP-JUDP III                                                    1
       Summary of method used                                                        2
       • Document review                                                             3
       • The Selections of Location, Household Survey and Field Observation          3
       • Surveyors, Questionnaires and Respondents                                   3
       • Data Processing                                                             6


II.    MAIN FINDINGS OF THE KIP-JUDP III IMPLEMENTATION                              7

       Community understanding of the KIP-JUDP III                                   7

       Implementation Progress of the KIP-JUDP III
       Social Development Program                                                    8

       Implementation Progress of the KIP-JUDP III
       Economic Development Program                                                  9

       The Physical Implementation Progress of
       KIP-JUDP III Sanitation Component                                             12
             Private Toilets                                                         14
             Public bathing, washing and toilet facility                             15
             Collective toilets                                                      18
             Ditches, river, open space, ponds                                       20

       Urban community's priority                                                    21


III.   LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE KIP JUDP-III IMPLEMENTATION                          23

       Community's perception of KIP                                                 23
       The key actors' mentality                                                     24
       Leadership                                                                    24
       Program socialization                                                         25
       Community participation                                                       25
       Basic need fulfillment                                                        26
       Impact on the general attitude towards healthy environment                    27



                                             i
                        LIST OF ANNEXES



    ANNEX 1 : THE SUMMARY OF MoA

        • TABLE A: SUMMARY OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS
                   OF THE KIP-JUDP III OF THE TEN VILLAGES
                   ACCORDING TO MoA

        • TABLE B : SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS
                    OF THE KIP-JUDP III OF THE TEN VILLAGES
                    ACCORDING TO MoA



        • TABLE C: SUMMARY OF SANITATION DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS
                   OF THE KIP-JUDP III OF THE TEN VILLAGES
                   ACCORDING TO MoA



•   ANNEX 2   VILLAGE PROFILE

•   ANNEX 3   METHOD OF SURVEY

•   ANNEX 4   SUMMARY OF PRIMARY DATA

•   ANNEX 5    LIST OF INDIVIDUALS/ORGANIZATION INTERVIEWED
               DURING THE ASSIGNMENT

•   ANNEX 6    TERM OF REFERENCE (TOR)




                                 iii
I.     INTRODUCTION

              This study has been carried out as assigned and funded by UNDP/World Bank
Water and Sanitation Program for East Asia and the Pacific and requested by the EA3IN
Division of the World Bank. The focus of the study is aimed at the sanitation component
of the Kampung Improvement Program (KIP). The Kampung Improvement Program - Third
Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP III) was initiated in 1990 in 75 villages
(kelurahan) in Jakarta and 20 villages in Botabek. In 1994 the coverage of KIP-JUDP III
increased by 10 additional villages of DKI Jakarta which were implemented by the NGOs.

               The Sanitation program is an important component of the KIP and has a direct
impact on the environmental and health conditions of the rural population. A follow-up study
should be carried out to determine the sanitation program's effect on these sectors, its benefit
to the population as well as the problems and accomplislunents. Therefore the evaluation
program is an important tool for an institution to review and improve the policies in
implementing its projects.

                 As laid out in detail in the terms of reference, the objectives of this study are
to (i) evaluate the achieved progress and the existing institutions or rural organizations which
were established to operate and maintain the sanitation facilities and environmental
improvements; (ii) identify the weaknesses and successes in building the sanitation facilities;
(iii) design the strategy for project implementation in the remaining time period; and (iv)
prepare a sanitation component framework for the next KIP.


Background of KIP JUDP ill
              One of the government efforts to improve the facilities and infrastructure of
the urban environment is through the KIP, as carried out in the present KIP JUDP III and
funded by the World Bank loan (Loan 3246-IND). The KIP which was initiated in the 1960s
has helped 15 million of Indonesia's low income population living in urban slum areas. In
Jabotabek 1.4 million people have benefitted from the KIP-JUDP III program
implementation.

               The first phase of KIP in Indonesia (1969-1974) emphasized improving the
physical condition of kampungs such as improvements of road, drainage, sanitation facilities,
school buildings and community he~lth centers. The second phase (1974-1989) KIP
emphasized improvements and renovation of housing, to provide a better and healthier living
environment.

               As the KIPs developed, it was learned that the facilities built under the KIP
I and KIP II were not managed, maintained nor developed by the people at the KIP locations.
Based on the evaluation the failure is caused by the people's incompetence due to unsuitable
sectoral development as well as decision making procedures.




                                                 1
               The sectoral development program which emphasized only physical aspects
has caused people to feel left out of the kampung development process, they are not ready
to use the provided facilities as socially and mentally though it is aimed to improve their
socio-economic condition. The procedures for the program is decision making have not
reflected the people's aspiration and needs because they are not involved directly in the
program formulation and decision making.

               Due to the shortcomings of the previous program, the KIP JUDP III applied
a more participatory approach known as "Tribina". Tribina consists of three prime activities
as follows:

       •      bina sosial (social attitude development), a program which is aimed to
              improve the quality of the existing manpower, leadership, social attitudes
              discipline;

       •      bina ekonomi (economic development), a program which is aimed to
              encourage economic activities to create job opportunities in the urban areas;

       •      bina fisik (phyl)ical development), a program to improve the facilities and
              infrastructure as well as the environment in the urban areas.

              The participation of the urban population in the KIP-JUDP III is carried out
through the full involvement of the urban community in the entire process of planning,
implementation, monitoring, maintenance and development of the program. Therefore this
new program is oriented not only to the physical aspects as carried out in the previous
program.


Summary of the method used
               The evaluation of the sanitation program of the KIP-JUDP III is focused only
on the component which is closely related to human waste. In general the urban and rural
population in Indonesia are using the sanitation system which is divided into four categories
in handling their human waste:

       •       private toilet (squat or sit) usually located inside the house; some houses have
               septic tanks and some don't;

        •      MCK (public bathing, washing, and toilet) basically has similar construction
               to the private toilet. This facility is usually provided for public purpose with
               or without fees for using it;

        •      collective toilet or jamban jamak is a sanitation system which consists of a
               number of toilets in different houses connected to a single septic tank;

        •      open toilet, this is a very simple squat toilet, usually a construction of wood
               built in front of house yards, by rivers, ponds or drainage channels.


                                               2
       •      Document Review

              A collection of relevant data, references, and results of important studies was
n~viewed  including the reports of Community Health Development Program Design,
Environmental Health Development Program Design, Sanitation Program Work Plan of
Kampung Improvement KIP/PMHT Ill, supporting data such as relevant maps and the most
important document, Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) of ten villages in Jabotabek for
sampling.

               The data for KIP-JUDP III documentation has been collected from different
main sources such as Dinas Perumahan DKI as ,the Project Management Unit (PMU) MHT
III, PMU KIP-JUDP Ill BOTABEK in Tangerang, Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
Bogor, Tangerang dan Bekasi, village offices, consultants and the NGOs involved in the KIP-
JUDP III. This document review provided the basic background which was very useful in
the field implementation as well as in the preparation of this report.


       •       The Selections of Location, Household Survey and Field Observation .

                The selection of survey locations. After reviewing existing documents and
interviewing related parties of KIP-JUDP III, five criteria were agreed on and were used to
identify ten villages for survey. See Table 1 and Figure 1.

              Household surveys were completed in the fourth week of June 1996. The
average time needed to complete the survey in each village was between five and seven days.

                Field observation. Apart from the interview using questionnaires with the
respondents, data collection was done by directly observing the physical conditions of
existing sanitation facilities and the socio-economic conditions of local communities to obtain
data on problems and their opinion on the facilities which was not covered by the
questionnaires. The field observation focused on the physical aspects of the sanitation facility
constructions in the KIP-JUDP III.


        •      Surveyors, Questionnaires and Respondents

               The surveyors who were selected to carry out interviews were recruited from
the local community. Household surveys in the ten villages were carried out by 44
surveyors, comprises of 41 housewives and 3 men. Their active involvement in the
community health center or other community organizations was one of the criteria for
recruitment of the surveyors. After all the surveyors were selected, they were trained for
3.5 hours. After reviewing the filled questionnaires, it is clear that these surveyors had
performed very well, as can be seen from the accuracy of the data collected. From all the
filled questionnaires only about 30 questionnaires had incomplete data. In this case all the
surveyors were asked to reinterview the respondents and to refill the questionnaires. All the
surveyors showed very positive attitudes in performing their job; they were serious, honest,
accurate, very cooperative and responsible, and were willing to redo the survey when
necessary.

                                               3
                 Figure 1
             Survey Locations

                        JAVA SEA




                       BOG OR




1. Sungai Bambu
2. Galur
3. Kotabambu Utara
4. Kalianyar
5. Pisangan Baru
6. Manggarai Selatan
7. Tugu
8. Jurumudi Baru
9. Dadap
10. Kalibaru
      TABLE        1          SURVEY LOCATIONS AND SELECTION CRITERIA
             I
                                                                                           Selection Criteria

      No.              Village        --·     Administrati~e ·-- I PopulationDensity         Percentage -~f          ·-                   Gmplem~~ta:;~-~~- -~
                                                   Area          !    per hectare            slum area (%)                Management      I     &L     Stage
                                                                 I                     I                                                  I
             !
             I                                                  I                                               -;                       ·1
             I
       l.i       Sungai Bambu                 North Jakarta     I         284                       14          i    PT. Astron Polaris 11992/1993- 1995/1996
       2.              Galur                  Central Jakarta             676                       39               PT. Astron Polaris I 1991/1992 - 1993/1994
             I
             I
       3. I Kotabambu Utara                    West Jakarta               410          I            26          I PT. Astron Polaris          1991/1992- 1993/1994
                                                                                                                I


       4. I        Kalianyar                   West Jakarta               910          I            40          l           CARE                     1995/1996

+>-    5. I      Pisangan Baru                 East Jakarta               588          I            25          I   PT. Astmn Polaris 11992/1993- 1995/1996

       6. I Manggarai Selatan                 South Jakarta               679          I           50           I PT. Astron Polaris      11992/1993- 1994/1995

       7. !            Tugu                   Bogor Regency     I         96           I           30           1     PT. Indoconsult     I          1993/1994
             i
       8. I      Jurumudi Baru        Tangerang Municipality    1         59           I           58           [         PT. Redecon     11993/1994 - 1995/1996

       9.              Dadap      I         Tangerang Regency   I         72                       39           J         PT. Redecon     11993/1994 - 1995/1996
             I                                                                         I
       10. :       Kalibaru       l          Bekasi Regency               70           I           40                     PT. Seecon      i 1992/1993 -    1993/1994
            _I                                                                         i                                                  l
                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                     9 Consultants      + :
                                                                                                                         1 NGO
                                                                                                                                                c:\123R24\ning·.tahd -I
      Source : KIP-JUDP III documents and field work
                The questionnaires were an important survey tool designed particularly to
help the surveyors do the interview with ease. The questionnaires were prepared in three
types of format: questionnaires for respondents having private toilets, collective toilets, MCK
and questionnaires for those who do not use toilets and still use their house yards (garden),
rivers, ponds or ditches for their human waste. The total questionnaires collected which were
feasible to be processed were 799, consisting of 478 (60%) from DKI Jakarta and 321 (40%)
from 'Botabek.

               The respondents were picked randomly from each RW (neighborhood group)
at the survey location. From the data collected, 312 respondents were using private toilets,
209 using MCK, 217 using open toilets, and 61 using collective toilets .


         •     Data Processing

               The data was processed using SPSS version 6 for Windows with the following
steps:

        •       Checking the questionnaires. The checking was carried out manually to see
if the questionnaires had been filled properly. Each questionnaire was marked for
identification.

        •      Data entry formatting. Data entry formatting was carried out by translating
all the questions of the questionnaire and entered accordingly into a series of variables for
SPSS software.

       •       Data entry. The process of entering manual data (questionnaires) into digital
data which is compatible to the SPSS software in order to make the preparation for the
desired data processing.

       •      Data clearing. This was carried out by rechecking the data that had been
entered gradually: data reentry for a number of questionnaires picked randomly; checking
whether the answers in a number of questionnaires are logical; and manual rechecking by
reviewing the digital data printout.

       •        Recoding. Conforming the coding of each answer of the questionnaire by
regrouping the open answers as well as data with large variants. Recoding was applied to the
cleared digital data.

        •      Data processing output. Data processing was carried out by creating a design
out of the desired outputs that it is then translated to the commands applicable to the SPSS
Software.




                                               6
ll.    MAIN FINDINGS OF THE KIP-JUDP ill IMPLE:MENTATION

             A number of fmdings emerged from the household surveys, field observations
and review of existing documents. The assessment of the progress of the KIP-JUDP III
implementation is divided into three primary parts according to the Tribina approach to the
program .

               The first part defines the benfits achieved from the implementation of the
social development program or training of the affected communities ofKIP-JUDP III project.
The second part defines the existing economic activities as the results of the application of
economic development concept in the villages and how the community benefits from these
activities. The third part defines the physical achievement of the sa~tation facilities.

              To assess the achievement of the KIP-JUDP III field implementation the
Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) of the Implementation of the Kampung Improvement
Project KIP-JUDP III was used as reference. The MoA is the signed document of agreement
on the implementation of socio-economic and physical development program between the
community of a related village and the regional government.

              In the case of the city of Jakarta the signing of the MoA was carried out by
the DKI Jakarta Regional Government which is represented by the Bappem PMHT and the
kampung community represented by the LKMD administrator. In the case of Botabek, the
MoA was signed by the Level II Local Goverrunent (Pemerintah Daerah Tingkat
Il/Kabupaten/Kotamadya) represented by the Secretary of PIU KIP-JUDP III of the related
Regency /Municipality and the kampung represented by the Head of the LKMD of the related
village.

               Each village prepares and possesses their individual MoA but apparently the
role of consultants and NGOs is still very dominant in the process of preparing this
document. This agreement document between the regional government and the village level
community was not available in all of the ten village offices. Most of this documents were
collected from the consultants who kept them for their personal files, while some were
collected from the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) KIP-JUDP III of the individual region.


Community understanding of .the KIP-JUDP ill
               The target community of the KIP-JUDP III project heard about the Kampung
Improvement Program from their neighborhood association (RW/RT) and newspapers. This
fact was confirmed by 45% of the respondents. The second source of information was the
village office staff, the local community leaders, and the media (TV /radio). Less than 2%
of the respondents heard about the KIP plan from the NGOs or the consultants who were
responsible for training the target communities as well as the preparation of the kampung
development planning.



                                              7
            · The information received by the target community was only limited to very
general information. To date they are still relatively unaware about the KIP components
which have been or will be built in their village. Almost in all villages, the knowledge on
the KIP-JUDP III is still low. The objective to achieve community based development
through the KIP-JUDP III project still needs much work .


Implementation Progress of the KIP-JUDP ill Social Development
Program.
                 The objective of the social development program in the KIP-JUDP III project
is to streng1then and encourage the local participants in the development process; stabilize the
community development working groups; and improve the awareness of the community in
environmental sanitation.

               One of the Tribina approaches of the program was to place a community
development coordinator (CDC) in each village. Some villages receive technical assistance
from two CDCs at once like Kalianyar village, but there is also a case in Bogor where a
CDC handlles a few villages. The key to successfully achieving targets in community
participation development programs is the commitment and capabilities of the CDC in
communicating with the target communities. Two CDCs in each village to handle the
community development program is the most ideal number.

                A CDC who is placed in a village usually is recruited from an NGO, he/she
works and lives with the target community. For the villages which are not assisted by an
NGO, the appointed consultant will work with an NGO to recruit a CDC. When this study
was just started, there were four CDCs working in Kalianyar, Kotabambu Utara villages and
Dadap village that we met in the field. The CDCs working in the other seven villages had
completed their duties.

               The main program which was completed in each village is tratmng,
particularly training in the community development leadership. The sanitation related
training consisted of community health training, environmental health training and drainage
maintenance training. The best training program to directly benefit local communities is skill
training, provided to improve their capabilities in managing a small-scale enterprise and
bookkeeping.

               The numbers of individuals as well as institutions to provide this type of
training are adequate. As there is a number of different institutions available to provide the
training, the CDCs are required to play the leading role in helping the local communities
discuss and identify their needs and select the most suitable institutions to carry out the
needed tra.ining. After learning the lessons from past experience, it is expected that this
approach will avoid the provision of unnecessary training which does not immediately impact
the target community. The recognized institutions currently used to carry out the training
programs are the Department of Human Resources, the Department of Information and the
Department of Health.



                                                8
                 Apart from training, one of the activity outputs of the social development
program is the establishment of a number of community working groups (KSM) on
sanitation, garbage management and clean water supply management. Unfortunately most
of the KSMs are no longer active, except in a number of villages which are still assisted by
CDCs. With this situation it is difficult to monitor the implementation of socio-economic
activities as laid out in the MoA. Nevertheless, the respondents' knowledge of the KIP-JUDP
HI, particularly on Sanitation KSM indicated that "socializing" the kampung improvement
program is still far from success. Ninety percent of the MCK user respondents said that they
never heard about the Sanitation KSM. Sanitation training and extension were merely
theoretical and not practical. The summary of the KIP-JUDP III activities in the ten villages
can be seen in Table A of Annex 1.


Implementation Progress of the KIP-JUDP III Economic Development
Program
                The results of the economic development program activities varied from one
village to the others. The emphasis of the economic development program was on efforts to
improve local community based economic activities and on introducing a community self-
financing group (Kelompok Simpan Pinjam or KSP) to start a revolving funds .

               Training was the first program activity introduced in each village before the
community based economic program activity was identified and encouraged. Four basic areas
of training were provided: management, enterprise development, product marketing and skills
training such as driving, sewing, molding, printing, electronics and etc .

         A few respondents particularly from
the Jakarta area who took the skills training       1. The CiJordinator of Community        SelJ~Jinancing
complained that there are still no available           Group (KSP)
facilities/job openings for them to apply
                                                     The KSP in RW 05 of Kalibaru district is
their newly acquired skills.                         coordinated by a community leader who is also
                                                     selected by its community as the head of RW
        In most of the surveyed villages, the        (neighbm:hoodassociation). ThiS. perso1.1 ~sa lot of
community self-financing groups (KSP)                landihat caJ,t··be tis~d by· S1llall scale traders with
were formed. These groups provide funds              renting .fees. T:h~se Vel.ldor:s receive ·credits. from
                                                    ·theii'KSP. He a:)so huilt 8. simple offi(';e •on the land
for loans for small scale enterprises. The           witli 1 small desR and two chairs, just .enough to
funds provided to the KSPs as the seed               protect two collectors from the sun and rain. This
capital are very useful to the borrowers and         system makes the debtors pay their payments
the loan payments are on time.                       without difficulties and for it eases the collectors to
                                                     monitor the debtors. The MCK is provided in this
                                                     si:nall market a.nd the fee is 200 rupiah each time per
        From the total of 58 KSPs planned,           person.
65% or 38 KSPs were actually formed with
the total of 600 beneficiaries. Presently
there are 70% of active KSPs and they are
also well managed. The total amount of money loaned through these KSPs are 158,977,000
rupiahs and the delinquency rate is less than one percent.



                                                9
•                  Table 2 shows the development of the KSPs in each village of the survey area.
    In Jakarta for example one of the village which is Pisangan Baru has nine active KSPs with
    thirty six members and their revolving funds reached fifteen million rupiahs.

                    The KSP of the economic development program in Botabek has developed well
    and is still very active today particularly in the villages of Kalibaru dan Dadap. There are
    two KSPs in Kalibaru village in RW 05 and RW 06. Both RWs were given priority by the
    KIP-JUDP III economic development program as most of their population work as small
    traders. All the credit payments are paid on time under a supervisor and two debt collectors
    for each KSP. The KSPs in Kalibaru village has now 150 members and their revolving funds
    amount to 42 million rupiahs.

           The economic development program in Dadap village, Tangerang is reflected by the
    KSP Bahari lndah which helps the fisherman community in the area. The KSP is coordinated
    by a housewife and almost all of its members are women. This KSP is assisted by one CDC.
    The funds collected from the KSP are used to help small scale entrepreneurs such as food
    vendors and the average amount of each loan given is 50,000 rupiahs.



      2. The success of a small scale ctedit
        debtor.

      Mr. Saefudin is a martabak (traditional
      dish) seller in Rawabehek market,
      Bekasi.He received 100,000 rupiah as
      his first loan from KSP which he used
      to repair his vendor cart. He was able to
      repay his loan on time in 40 days. He
      WllS able to pay the instalment of,2,7:SO
      rupiah every day. This means.thatin40
      days he had paid 110;000 rupiah:
      105,000 rupiah is the amountofhis.Joan
      plus interest, 4,000 rupiah is paid as           1. The Rawabebek traditional market
      obligatory saving, and the 1.000 rupiah
      is donated to the KSP cbarity ca8h.box.
      The increasing number· of J;1,1yers has
      made him decide to seUpermaneritlY in
      one place. He received a. second loan;
      and used the money to construct a new
      vendor cart. He asked his nephew to
      help him selling martabak with his new
      cart while he is now selling continuously
      by the Rawabebek market. The second




•
      loan was also paid on time. A third loan
      has enabled him to recruit another
      nephew. Now he is contemplating
       another and bigger loan to extend his
      business.


                                                       2. Public facility (MCK) inside the market



                                                  10
                                                                                                                                          -- -
      TABLE               2       THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY SELF-FINANCING GROUPS (KSP)
                                                                                                                                                                     --



                                               Number of        Number of       Number of                                    Amount of
      No.                 Village             KSP Planned      KSP Formed      Beneficiaries          Status                money loaned                   Remarks
                                                 (unit)           (unit)         (people)                                     (rupiahs)

                                                                                                                        !
         l.         Suugai Bambu                    3              None              -                   -              I         -                             -
        2.                    Galur                 7                7           data not          not active yet   !             -                             -
                                                                                 available                              I
                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                        I

        3.         Kotabambu Utara                  I                1              95                 active                43,000,000               Smooth repayment,
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                    I                                   no delinquency
        4.                Kalianyar                 4                4              16                 active                 2,000,000               Smooth repayment,
                                                                                                                                                '       no delinquency

        5.          Pisangan Baru                   12               9              36                 active                15,000,000
                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                            I         Smooth repayment,
                                                                                                                                            I           no delinquency
1-'
1-'     6.         Manggarai Selatan                6                1              108                active                35,700,000               Smooth repayment,
                                                                                                                                                       only two cases of
                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                          delinquency                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
        7.                    Tugu            no KSP planned         -              -                    -                       -                              -                         I
                                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                                                            I


        8.          Jururnudi Baru                  7                3              44                active                  3,350,000     I        Smooth repayment,
                                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                                                            I          no delinquency
                                                                                                                                            I

                                       '
                                                                                               i
        9.                    Dadap                 10               8              151               active                 17,840,000              Smooth repayment,
                                                                                               I
                                                                                               I                                                       no delinquency
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                               I                                            i
        IO.               Kalibaru                  9                5             150                active                 42,087,000     i        Smooth repayment,
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                            I          no delinquency
                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                           I
        Total of survey area                       59               38             600         i       70%                  158,977,000             Delinquency rate less
                                                                                               !                    I
                                                               (64% actually                          active        I                      !              than 1%
      . ·------.                       '---
                                                                  formed}                      !                    J                      !
                    ·--
                                                                                                                                                           I23R24\ta ~I -2\ I2. I 2. 96
 3.       The head of Bahari lndah KSP

 Mrs. Siti is the head of Bahari lndah KSP.
 She appreciates the benefits of this KIP-JUDP
 III program. Through this KSP she can
 financially help h~r family. Her husband, a
 fisherman does not always have a good catch
 to bring enough money for the whole family.
 He, like other fishermen in the area is
 categorized as having irregular and low
 income. She also feels that the KSP has
 helped her out of her dependency on the
 informal money lenders who charge excessive
 interests. Apart from that the KSP has taught
 people to improve their income management.
                                                          3. KSP Bahari Indah Office

               The details ofKIP-JUDP III economic development program in the ten villages
according to the MoA can be seen in Table B of Annex 1.



The Physical Implementation Progress of the KIP-JUDP III Sanitation
Component
              The sanitation condition in all of the surveyed villages shows that a lot ot
households (39%) have a sanitation facility or private toilet in their houses. From that
percentage only half or 197 out of the 312 private toilets use septic tanks.

               The liquid and solid human wastes from private toilets without septic tank are
channeled to the public drainage or nearby rivers. In the Jakarta area the wastes are
channeled to the rivers ofKali Buntu, Kali Sentiong, Banjir Kanal, to the connecting channel
of Ciliwung and Cisadane rivers in Tangerang area, and to the Kalibaru irrigation channel
in Bekasi area. Others channel their wastes to the existing ponds like in the village of
Jurumudi Baru of Tangerang area where many villagers raise fish in ponds.




                                                        4. The high populatio11 density
                                                           caused drainage channels to
                                                           be used as disposal sites for
                                                            human and other wastes




                                                 12
       In some villages such as Sungai
Bambu in North Jakarta, Kotabambu Utara
in West Jakarta, and Manggarai Selatan in
South Jakarta there are many private toilets
whose wastes are channeled directly to the
nearby rivers using long PVC pipes,
sometimes as long as 30 meters.

        The shortage of land in the city of
Jakarta is the main reason that septic tanks
are not planted in the crowded slum urban
areas .




                                                           5. Industrial wastes
                                                              is also deposited into
                                                              the drainage ditches




                   As in Tangerang and Bekasi areas, though land is available to build septic
   tanks, the poor sanitation condition is mainly caused by lack of environmental awareness.
   The following Table 3 shows that in general, the percentage of households who have access
   to use septic tanks was only 50%. It comprises of the households using private toilets, MCKs
   and the collective toilets which are associated with septic tanks. It means that the other 50%
   of the households do not have any sanitation facility. They use yards, nearby rivers,
   drainage, beach and ponds for their human waste disposal.

                 The details of sanitation component implementation of the KIP-JUDP III in the
   survey area based on the MoA of each village can be seen in Table C Annex 1.


                                                 13
    TABLE 3 : SANITATION SYSTEM USED BY HOUSEHOLDS IN THE SURVEY AREA

     Type of sanitation facility used                  No. of households             %


    1. Private toilet                                           312                  39
           • Connected to septic tanks                 (197)



•
           • Connected directly to drainage
             channels and rivers                        (115)


•   2. MCK                                                      209                  26

•        • Connected to septic tanks
         • Connected directly to drainage
           channels and rivers
                                                        (140)

                                                        (69)


    3. Directly to the yards, drainage
       channels, beach, river and ponds                         217                   27

    4. Collective toilet, connected to
       septic tank                                              61                    8


                    Total                                       799                   100

     Total households using septic tanks                        398                   50



    Private Toilets

                   The average age of the septic tanks available in the survey area are less than
    ten years old. Most of the septic tanks are designed to be emptied after three years of
    construction, but 75% of them have never been vacuumed. Generally, the septic tanks are
    drained after 10 years of use as the residents will only have them serviced after they start
    having problems.

                     The users confirmed that they never have problems with their present septic
     tank. This is reflected by the answers of 84% of the respondents who are using septic tanks.
     The distance between the septic tank with clean water well is around 6-10 meters in average.
     Only few respondents reported that their septic tanks smell bad (7%) and easily overflow
     (7%).
                     Only 25% of all tanks have been drained costing approximately Rp.50,000 per
     tank, depending on the remoteness of the tanks. Sometimes a few households have to pay
     more based on the length of pipe connecting the service truck and the tank, particularly in
    ·the overpopulated areas where there are difficult direct accesses for the service truck. The
     Dinas PU or local sanitation authority are the most frequently used public agents, 74% of
     the total households use them. In inaccessible areas, the residents or 19% of the respondents
     clean their own tanks manually using water buckets. Only 7% of the total households use


                                                  14
private agents. Most of the septic tanks are without absorption drain. The excesses are
usually drained through the existing drainage system or nearby rivers. The cost of building
one unit of private toilet is approximately 300,000 rupiah. Most of the cost is used for
constructing the septic tank, and the rest is used to rebuild the toilet or the walls .

       In all of the MoAs of the villages, the private toilet construction credit program was
not included (Table C of Annex 1), so that the implementation progress of private toilets
physical construction could not be evaluated. Nevertheless, the consultant in the survey field
found that non-interest credit of maximum 450,000 rupiahs for septic tank construction was
available apparently from the World Bank. The money is used to build the septic tank as
usually the credit recipient already owns a toilet with drainage led to the nearby river.
Unfortunately, the consultant was unable to locate the person assigned by the Department of
Public Works and the World Bank .

                Most of the answers collected from the questionnaires show that the demand
for private toilets with septic tanks is considerably high. Fifty seven percent or 227 from the
total of 398 households without standard sanitation facilities, expressed their interest in
building facilities if they have access to loans (although it is not the priority). The
respondents include the households which have private toilets but no septic tanks, the MCK
users, and those without sanitation facilities who use open space, drainage system, ponds,
beaches or nearby rivers for their sanitation need. The average potential for loan repayment
is Rp.S,OOO a month.


Public bathing, washing, and toilet facility (MCK)

                The total existing MCKs in the ten sample villages is 38 units. Nineteen of
them or 50% were built through the KIP-JUDP III program and all of them are located in
the Botabek area. The other nineteen MCKs in six villages in the Jakarta area were built by
a number of donors such as Bapindo, Telkom, the Department of Public Works, ABRI
Masuk Desa (AMD) or army-civilian cooperation program, private sector and self-funded.
In the six villages of Jakarta, the KIP-JUDP III program as stated in each village's MoA is
planning to build five new units and rehabilitate one unit of the existing MCK. None of the
new units was built, according to information collected. The rehabilitation work of the
existing MCKs was also carried out by other institutions.

               The MCK program implementation has achieved 76% of the target. The
number of MCKs built under this project is 19 units, as against 25 planned. All of the 38
MCK units have 156 entries or an average of four entries for one MCK. Some of the large
MCKs have ten entries each or more. Generally, the number of MCK entries is adequate
to serve the areas.

               A few MCKs are not properly constructed nor designed, as some of them have
been built without septic tanks. This is particularly due to lack of available land and the
urgent need of the community for sanitation facilities. As the result, the drainage system and
the nearby rivers are commonly used as the substitutes. Only 2/3 of the existing MCKs are
provided with septic tanks, others use the nearby rivers as a sewer.


                                              15
     •    The MCK tarif

       Most of the MCKs,
particularly in Jakarta, are
commercially operated. On average
users ar charged 200 rupiahs per
use. A few MCKs provide a facility
for washing motorbikes for 1,000
rupiahs per motorbike. Forty percent
of the 209 respondents using public
MCKs spend 1,000 to 5,000 rupiahs
average per day/family. In this case,
it is obvious that the MCKs are
important to urban communities
living in crowded areas .

         Only the Kalibaru village in                        6. The inside and ...
Botabek commercializes the MCK
with a different system, allowing the
users to pay monthly contributions of
2,500 rupiahs per/user household.
The communities in Bogor and
Tangerang areas can use the MCK
facilities for free.


•~       The Use of MCKs

        One MCK is used by
approximately 20        households,
although some are even used by 100
households particularly in the
overpopulated villages. The MCKs                 7. outside views of MCK built by the community
are mostly used by the community to                         with their own funds.
defecate and for this they are very
dependent on the MCKs as in the
villages of Galur and Kalianyar. On              most of the people already have private
the other hand, there are a number               toilets with septic tanks;
of MCKs that have been built but
never used due to the following         •        poor accessibility, MCK is located in
reasons :                                        the backyard of a member of the
                                                 community;
•        no available   clean   water
         supply;                        •        lack of awareness of the importance of
                                                 clean environment; they prefer to use
                                                 open land or ponds for their human
•        poor selection of site, MCK
                                                 waste.
         is built in the area where

                                            16
         Eight units or 42% of the 19
MCK units built under the KIP
JUDP III are not used by the local
communities. All of these are in
Botabek. Overall, the number of
MCKs which are effectively used by
the: communities is still higher than
the: unused. It has been proved by all
the MCKs in Jakarta that if these
facilities are really needed, there are
no other alternatives but to built the
MCK units. With the community's
participation, these facilities can be
maintained and managed in an
orderly fashion.                                      8. A dry well ...



•       The Management of MCK

         The commercial MCKs are
usually attended by someone who is
hired by the owner, as said by 30%
of user respondents. The main duty
of the guard is to collect money from
thi::: users, sometimes he will be
asked to clean the MCK so it is
always ready to use. The guard
usually receives a regular salary
from the owner .

        The RT /RW (neighborhood                     9. Inappropriate use
association) apparently has an
important role in maintaining the
MCKs in their areas. Twenty four
pe:rcent of the user respondents
confirmed that the MCKs they use
are maintained by their RT/RW
official. Some of the MCKs are not
managed (as confirmed by 15% of
the respondents). It is interesting that
the LKMD and the village officials
almost have no role in managing the
MCKs .

       Twenty five of the thirty eight
MCK units are provided with septic
tanks. The cleaning of septic tanks is
carried out by the manager or the               10. Favored for its convenience ...

                                           17
selected RT/RW officials. The cleaning and maintenance costs of the MCK is collected from
the users. There is one MCK in the village of Pisangan Baru which is using its septic tank
to produce biogas. The biogas then is used as a fuel source by the assigned manager.

               It is difficult to figure out the average frequency rate of septic tank cleaning.
In practice, the MCK caretaker usually contacts the service agent only when it is really
urgent. The cost to have the septic tank drained is approximately Rp.50,000.- with minimal
draining volume of 2 m 3 •

               The MCKs near a river or a pond were usually built without septic tanks. The
liquid as well as solid human wastes were channelled directly to nearby river or ponds.
These can be found in Sentiong river, the channels which connect Ciliwung river and many
fish ponds in Tangerang area .


        •      MCK users' satisfaction

              Most MCK users (80%) are satisfied with the existing MCK facilities. Those
who are not said that the reasons are poor condition (filthy) of the MCK and lack of clean
water supply. The level of MCK users' satisfaction is also reflected by their opinion about
the MCK utilization fees. Sixty percent of the respondents said that the average daily
expenditure for using the MCK is "fair" and "affordable" .

               For the villages with low sanitation awareness and poor socio-economic
condition, "free of charge" is their most common answer when asked why they are using the
open space, nearby rivers or ponds as alternative sewers. In overpopulated villages, where
there are no other alternatives but the MCKs, 40% of the respondents are willing to pay the
fee, but with some objections.

               Table 4 shows the summary of MCKs development in the survey area which
were constructed under the KIP JUDP III, by other institution and community self-help.


Collective toilet

               A collective toilet is usually a number of private household toilets using one
septic tank. This system is often found in Kalibaru and Tugu villages and also sometimes in
Manggarai Selatan village. This case is often used in rental houses which are owned by one
owner. The owner built only one collective septic tank to be used by all of his/her houses.
The second case is when a house is sold to a number of buyers and each buyer will build a
toilet which is connected to the main septic tank.

                One septic tank usually is used by two to three households, and ten househblds
at the most. In the case of rental houses, the owner is responsible for the maintenance of
the septic tank; his tenants will be asked to contribute when it is time to have it vacuumed.
88% of the surveyed septic tanks have never been vacuumed. The collective toilets users are
satisfied with the existing facilities.


                                               18
     Ditches, rivers, open space, ponds

                   Twenty seven percent of the 799 respondents have no available toilets in their
     houses, neither do they use the MCK. They usually go to the open spaces, yards, ditches,
     nearby rivers or ponds to take care of their needs.

         It was learned that from the
four alternatives studied, the nearby
river is the most used facility (55%),
the house yard (18%), ponds (16%)
and drainage ( 11%).        The users
usually build a very simple stand on
th~ese facilities .


        The communities that use the
rivers as toilet facility mostly are
from the villages of Sungai Bambu,
Pisangan Baru, Jurumudi Baru and
K.alibaru. The open space/land are
used by communities of Dadap
village because of many rice fields                          11. .. . inexpensive and easy
and home gardens available in the
village. In the village of Jurumudi,
many of its communities have ponds
to raise fish therefore most of them
are using these ponds even though
there are MCKs available nearby.
The drainage is used mostly by
people from the villages of Galur,
Sungai Bambu, and Jurumudi Baru.

        A few reasons why the
respondents are using these facilities
as for toilet are:

4'       Building private toilet is too
expensive. This is said by the                                   12 . ..... to the river
respondents of the relatively low
income villages. Therefore, to build          •       Habit. Apart from a very low income of the
1the private toilet is not a priority ..      communities, the lack of knowledge and awareness
                                              of hygiene and environment is the reason why these
•      The present public toilets             people are using any available alternatives. The
cannot be used. Most cases show               practice of using this is a habit for most
that these public toilets are not             communities in Tangerang area; they also said that
provided with clean water supply or           using this facility is more convenient compared to
are built in the locations where they         the MCKs built by the KIP-JUDP III project in
are too difficult to be reached.              their area.


                                                  20
                                                       •        Residential status. The people
                                                       who live in rented houses in the
                                                       village are usually seasonal labors.
                                                       The poor condition of their sanitation
                                                       facilities does not seem to be a
                                                       priority to them, as saving every
                                                       cent of their daily income is more
                                                       important.

                                                       13. Should this habit be maintained ?



Urban community's priority
               The development of environmental infrastructure that does not reflect the need
of the people can cause a great loss. The MCKs provided in the area where many residents
have private toilets with septic tanks are only used as storage. The MCKs built in the area
where the residents are not socially ready are usually never used. Both factors are only some
of the reasons why these type of investments are not used by the communities. The case of
the facilities built by the "outsiders" without thorough consultation with the target
communities is the main reason why the villages residents are not using the facilities and
therefore they feel that it is not their responsibility to maintain them.

               The questions on environmental infrastructure development options were asked
to all respondents. There were eleven options which included nine primary infrastructure and
two non-infrastructure development options. From the eleven options given, each respondent
was asked to identify one option as their priority in relation to her/his needs. From all the
respondents, 36% answered "small scale credit" as their first priority. Private toilet is the
second, followed by "childrens education". The following is the breakdown of ranks of first
priority need identified by the respondents.

                     ·Priority                     Percentage of respondents

              - Small scale credit                                 36%
              - Private toilet                                     32%
              - Children education                                 14%
              - Collective toilet                                   6%
              - Clean water supply                                  4%
              -MCK                                                  4%
              - Drainage system                                     2%
              - Community health center                             1%
              - Access roads                                       0.5%
              -Primary schools                                     0.3%
              -Footpath                                            0.2%

                      Total                                         100%



                                             21
  ill.   LESSONS LEARNED                       FROM         THE            KIP-JUDP       III
         IMPLE1\1ENTATION

                From the field data that have been collected, it is assumed that to carry out
  environmental infrastructure development in target communities is a big and complicated
  task. This approach does not only involve physical development but more importantly it
  involves changing the way of thinking of key participants.


  Community's perception of KIP

                  Regardless of its successes and failures in the implementation, the KIP-JUDP
  III does benefit the target communities, but only half of the respondents feel the benefit of
  the implementation of the program. This is related to insignificant KIP program socialization
  so that the target communities do not have clear understanding or knowledge about the KIP
  program.

       There are two major benefits        which are already growing rapidly. Informal
in the implementation of the KIP-          interviews were conducted with the local
JUDP III according to the                  communities. The result shows that the price of the
respondent. The first is that the KIP      land has increased significantly compared to the
program improves the environment           price before the implementation of the KIP
and the second, it improves their          program.
living standards. Both benefits are
closely related to the physical
implementation of the KIP-JUDP III
program such as improvement of
roads and footpaths.

        The environmental
infrastructure development such as
road improvement is considered a
"top-down" program which is very
appreciated. Road improvement
helps community access, prevents
annual flooding, encourages residents
to maintain their environment by
planting trees, and also to build
wider and better quality roads                              14. KIP road
themselves.
                                                   Another outstanding result is that KIP
        The improved access                created security for the residents to remain in their
obviously increases the price of the       villages. By improving their living environment,
land as well as encourages the             they feel that their areas are confirmed as
growth of economic activities              residential areas and relatively secure from
particularly in the suburbs of Jakarta     condemnation.

                                               23
               As referred in the KIP-JUDP III target, approaches and outputs, there is a
  number of lessons that can be learned from the implementation of the KIP-JUDP III
  program.


  The key actors' mentality
         The success of program development, even the simplest and minor one depends on
  the positive mentality of the involved key actors. It includes the target groups coordinators;
  the construction supervisors and the construction manual labors. This is not only applies to
  the environmental infrastructure development program implemented by the community
  themself but to others carried out by contractors as well.

        The community self-funded
MCKs and roads are the result of the
community's self-motivated activities
through a very simple process. The
collected funds are managed by a
number of appointed staff through
voting. The construction is carried
out immediately after sufficient funds
are collected. They usually go to the
Dinas PU (city authority for public
works) for technical advice .

       The self-funded MCK is
completed within a month and                         15. Community self-funded road
immediately operational. The budget
spent for one MCK is 5.5 million                   The road is completed within two months,
rupiahs exclusive of the land, as it is     with the length of 850 m and width of 3.5 m, the
already available.                          budget spent is 27 million rupiahs. The construction
                                            work process is monitored and supervised by the
                                            community itself.

   Leadership
                  It is learned from field observations that the coordinator's leadership is an
   important factor in the program implementation. The community-based development
   programs can only be successfully implemented if their coordinators are persons with strong
   leadership qualities. The coordinators can be selected from the community members whom
   they respect and trust, such as the head of RT/RW, community leaders or a CDC.

                  For example, the construction of the MCK was initiated by a head of the RW,
   who saw the urgent need of his neighborhood members. He refused the support offered by
   the village as he wasn't sure if the funds were available and his past experience with the
   bureaucracy was often disappointing with constant delays. He realized that this wouldn't help
   the urgent demand of his members. The road construction was then initiated by a community


                                                24
leader who is actively involved in the LKMD (village community welfare institution). To
successfully implement the community based programs a coordinator having the ability to
lead and motivate is required and not an administrator. This person should commit
himself/herself to the needs of the community group that he leads.


Program socialization

               The target community should be clearly informed about their rights and
obligations. They also should understand what the outputs of the program are. If not, they
would consider the facilities provided by KIP program as a "gift". If the gift is what they
need, they will use it, and if it is not, they will ignore it. If the community owns the facilities
which they funded, planned and built themselves, they would also take care of the use and
maintenance of these facilities. Therefore, the government investments can be used in a more
useful and productive fashion .

                Time needed. The community participation approach is not new in Indonesia,
as · "gotong royong" (working together) philosophy is found everywhere in the country,
particularly in the rural areas with homogeneous population. On the other hand, where the
urban population, particularly in the Jabotabek area, is heterogeneous, this philosophy is not
easy to find. Preparing the urban population so that they are able to participate in the
development program should be done intensively and it consumes a lot of time. The
consideration of using NGOs as government development partners is very appropriate.


Community participation

                To achieve higher community parttctpation and optimum results by the
development program, the crucial step to be taken is to give the opportunity to the target
community (beneficiary), regular members as well as community leaders to take part and
responsibility in the process of program identification, planning, implementation, operation
and maintenance, even in the monitoring and evaluation processes .

               If a village is considered as a group "community", then thirty percent of the
community in the surveyed area has been successfully encouraged to participate in the
environmental infrastructure development program. This demonstrates that the main factor
in achieving success in program implementation are the leadership qualities of the community
coordinator.

              Needs identification. The development of environmental infrastructure
program carried out through government projects, by using package, dimensional pattern,
design and technology standards in the areas where these programs are supposedly to be
implemented by the community, usually leaves the facilities unused. To encourage
community participation in the development program, the coordination of community needs
on program location. dimension, design and appropriate technologies should be properly
included .



                                                25
                Planning. The planning preparation is usually done almost without the
community's participation. This actually is not a surprise, as the planning capability at the
village level is usually considered inadequate as training has never been given to the village
staff nor to the target communities. This case shows the importance of the roles of a
community development coordinator (CDC) or a motivator. This person is needed to teach
new values to the communities as well as to respond quickly to the people's needs. He/She
can also act as a mediator or liaison between the community and the government officials .

              hnplementation. The local communities are not involved in the
implementation phase. For example, water from a shallow well which dug near a MCK was
salty and could not be used by the target communities. When this question was asked, the
answer was given that the contractors will not carry out their job if it is not according to
their TORs as assigned by the government. The plumbing of MCKs do not function as well.
This is caused by the inappropriate planning; the design usually does not fit the local
condition. The local roads usually do not last long.

                Operation and maintenance. One of the important aspects of community
participation is the "sustainability" of the facilities. Communities are willing to manage and
maintain the facilities if they feel a sense of ownership. A sense of ownership exists if their
participation is encouraged from the start .

              Monitoring and Evaluation. The target communities are not trained to carry
out the monitoring and evaluation activities on the provided environmental infrastructures.
One of the motivator's duties is to encourage the target communities to participate in every
phase of the development program. A motivator should act as a representative of the
community in monitoring the development program as well as help and guide the target
community to monitor and evaluate the use of the provided facilities.

               He/she should at least have technical knowledge so that he can help the
community when they need technical advice or he/she knows how to contact somebody with
this expertise when needed.


Basic needs fulfillment
              The target community's participation cannot be expected in the implementation
of the environmental infrastructure development program if they are still unable to fulfill
their basic survival needs. The credit for small-scale enterprise program as one of the
development approaches to increase their income should be given priority, over the other
physical programs.

             The ability to repay loans should be considered in determining the size of the
program investment. If the community fmancial participation is expected, they should be
"helped" to improve their income first so that they can help finance the development
program.




                                              26
      Impacts on the general attitude towards healthy environment
                    The garbage and waste pollution in the environment caused by poor sanitation
      conditions can no longer be ignored as it can lead to expansion of common diseases such as
      diarrhea and respiratory infections. It is difficult to predict whether the KIP program can in
      fact change the attitudes of the local communities towards the importance of healthy
      environment .

                      The diversity of health facilities used by communities, including the "fee for
      services" facilities has made the study of community health a difficult task. The available
      community health records collected from the existing community health centers are not
      sufficient to generate standard statistical health figures. In fact many of the surveyed
      community members do not visit the health centers for medical treatment. The frequency of
      visits to doctor or health center varies, depending on the community's financial capabilities.
      The results of health surveys conducted in various areas in Jakarta show the variety of
      figures. 1 The communities of low-income areas will visit a doctor for health services when
      they can afford it.




        1 Charles Surjadi. "The Urban Health Problems in Indonesia". Urban Health Magazine, Atmajaya Catholic
    University, Jakarta, May 1994.




•                                                         27
IV.   THE FOLLOW UP                    OF THE           KIP IMPLE:MENTATION
      STRATEGY

                 The lesson learned from the experience is that efficient program
implementation can be achieved if the environmental infrastructure development program is
initiated in the community from the very beginning (bottom-up planning). From previous
experience it was also learned that the success of the development program implementation
is easier to achieve by applying the community-based development approach, a
development prograril which is initiated, targeted and implemented by the community itself.
It should be noted that the community-based development approach is different from the
community participation approach. In practice, the community participation development
approach is similar to the existing mechanism currently being used. Although it is said that
conceptually the approach "involves" the community participation, in practice it is not so.
The development program process is still carried out from top to bottom, and the provision
of facilities is decided by the government (supply driven) .

                From the sporadic community-based development programs in Indonesia,
lessons can be learned which can be developed further into a number of good development
concepts. The question is how to carry out the field implementation- the only way to do it
is to directly carry it out at the grassroots level.

                 In the current development mechanism, the community-based development
activities are treated as projects and not programs. Therefore the government has very little
experience in implementing the program which involves the community participation; both
the government and the community still have a lot to learn. The field implementation
depends heavily on the "willingness" of the actors involved .

               The development of environmental infrastructure, particularly in the sanitation
component of the KIP should be implemented using the community-based development
approach. Placing the community as the partner in the development and management of
environmental infrastructures will make this program sustainable. The benefits of applying
this type of development approach will (1) reduce the government capital cost; (2) facilitate
the operation and maintenance; and (3) make cost recovery possible.

              The Tribina concept is an initial step towards a community-based development
approach in the KIP implementation. This concept has been applied for the last five years .
Lessons learned from what has been achieved, weaknesses, strengths and successes of the
development program implementation concludes that the KIP implementation strategy should .
be improved. The proposed strategy for KIP implementation is "the environmental
infrastructure development funds should be allocated directly to target
communities/beneficiaries without having to go through bureaucratic process". The
community should be trained particularly on fmancial management to enable them to prepare
the environmental infrastructure development plan, supervise and maintain the facilities as
expected. To do this, the following points should be applied:



                                             28
    Transparency and accountability
                   As explained previously, the first lesson which should be learned is that
    accountability and transparency of the key actors are key to success in the development
    program implementation. If the bottom-up, community-based development approach is used
    as the tool in the environmental infrastructure development program, the foundation is
    transparency and accountability. The budget allocation and expenditures should be transparent
    and accountable. In the supply driven development approach, the information of how the
    program is planned and implemented cannot be assessed by the target community, and the
    allocation of the funds is secret information. Community is willing to participate if the
    process is transparent and they can visualize the benefits and the scheme is affordable.

                  A few approaches to maintain the openness and responsibilities among the key
    actors in the environmental infrastructure development program implementation are as
    follows:

           •      Conduct a forum to explain the purpose of the development programs and the
    budgets involved for the kecamatan as well as village. This forum should be attended by all

•   parties involved, such as the related government officials, representatives of target
    communities and the donor agencies. Points to be discussed in the forum include the benefits
    of the program; tasks and responsibilities of each party; budget components of the project
    and the value of the community's contributions such as provisions of labor and land.

            •      Conduct weekly forums at the community level to discuss the progress and
    constraints in program implementation. This forum also serves as an effective mechanism
    to motivate the community's participation in the monitoring of project expenditures.


    Funds chanelling
                   To successfully implement a useful and cost effective environmental
    infrastructure program it is necessary to involve the target community to partly fund the
    development program. The government should provide only the matching funds. This fund
    is only provided if the target community is ready to contribute to build the needed facilities.
    This can be in the form of in-kind contributions such as manpower, land, building materials
    and etc. and will be assessed according to the market value.

                     The fund allocation procedure should be specially designed so that the
    community has direct access to the funds. This will reduce the complicated, inflexible and
     time consuming bureaucracy. Cooperation with a Bank that has village level branches is one
     of the alternatives. This procedure will allow the community to receive the funds without
     having to deal with bureaucracy and its weaknesses. Instead, they can directly withdraw the
    ·tunds after being approved by the authorities.




                                                  29
JHired professional motivators
               The policy on hiring a professional motivator who can work full time within
the target community should be continued. To thoroughly implement all the environmental
infrastructure development programs, the motivator should be paid a proper salary. His
salary should not be included in the funds allocated for the community group. The purpose
of this system is to be able to hire a professional motivator and the target community group
has the right to replace him/her when this person does not perform well in his/her job.

               The CDC's performance can be evaluated by involving both the village head
and the available community leader, (or one of them) and having them recognized as
signatories in the contract awarded to the CDC. It should be mandatory for the CDC to
submit a progress report periodically to his/her superior. This system allows the contractor
to terminate the CDC if he or she proves to be incompetent or dishonest .


Link the implementation to planning

               The development program implementation should start immediately right after
the planning preparation is completed. The experience in the field proves that community-
based development program also known as self-motivated program implementation does not
consume time if implemented according to plan. The lesson learned from the implementation
of other similar development programs is that it is necessary to immediately implement the
program after the planning preparation is completed, particularly within the low income
community. The community is often disappointed by the "bottom-up planning" through
Musbangdes (village level development meeting) as their inputs end up being ignored in the
program implementation. Therefore the efforts of the community involved in the bottom-up
planning process should be implemented immediately.


The flexibility in program identification

             As stated earlier, it is time consuming to prepare a target community so that
they can accept and actively participate in the environmental infrastructure development
program. In this phase, flexibility should be given to the community to decide which
components in the KIP fit their needs, capabilities and priorities.

              The community-based development approach should be applicable without
exception to the physical implementation of sanitation component as an option in the
environmental infrastructure development programs of the KIP. Three alternatives can be
developed as a result of location survey observations. They are:

        •      On site sanitation system. In the areas where land is available, private toilets
with septic tanks is the most favored option. This system can be developed in the areas with
relatively low population and economically are growing rapidly such as Botabek.




                                              30
        •       Another form of sanitation facility that can be developed is a small scale multi-
toilet with collective septic tank. This type of sanitation facility is suitable for overpopulated
areas where there is no space available. The en masse septic tanks can be constructed along
the passageways in the kampung. The ideal size of the tanks is between 4 to 6m3 and they
can be built flexibly throughout the kampung passageways. Each tank can be shared and
connected with each toilet of approximately 20 closest households by using PVC pipes.

               The maintenance and draining costs of each tank are shared by the user group.
The tanks of this size are expected to be drained every two years. The assumed draining cost
is 75,000 rupiahs and, with the contribution of 1,000 rupiahs, collected from each household,
these costs are covered. Based on previous experience, the cost is approximately Rp.20
million for a similar septic tank. Apart from the tank, the cost also covers the purchase of
20 squat toilet bowls, the groundwork and the required connecting pipes .

       •       A combination of centralized and individual sanitation systems, commonly
known as small bore sewerage and shallow sewer. This system can be used as an alternative
for overpopulated areas where there is no available space as it only needs a small space for
its sewer. This system has not been widely used in Indonesia, but from the previous
experience it is considerably low-budget.

          •      Central piped sanitation system. All household waste (human and other)
  channelled through an underground pipe after going through a network drainage to come to
  the processing installation, this system is known as lnstalasi Pengolah Lumpur Tinja (IPLT)
. or human waste processing installation in Indonesia. This system requires a large initial
  investment. Nevertheless, this system should be considered, taking into account the scarcity
  and high prices of land in Jakarta.

                The decision to use one of the sanitation technologies depends on the cultural,
 social and technical development, and of course the income of the target community group.
 Nevertheless, the community-based environmental infrastructure development program, which
 until today remains a bureaucratic process should be promising if it is converted into a
 consultative and consensus process.


 Implementation Strategies for KIP Sanitation Component

               The success of a community-based sanitation development program depends
 on two basic approaches, Motivation Extension and Human Resources Development
 Programs. The latter relates to the community's financial capacities which varies in each
 location. The field observation recorded that the following strategies can be applied in the
 implementation of the next KIP sanitation program.

         •      Recruitment of a full-time Community Development Coordinator to work
 within the target community is essential. This person serves as a role model and encourages
 the community's participation in the development program. It has never been an easy task
 to encourage their participation by institutionalizing it through official government programs


                                                31
such as LKMD with its dasawisma mechanism. This has often failed. By placing a CDC for
a period of time, a program can be assessed whether or not it should be continued.

         •      Extension programs promote the immediate benefits of good sanitation to the
communities. It is important to rationalize the need as well as the benefit of good sanitation
to the target communities. The extension strategy can be implemented through the community
development program such as the KIP JUDP III small scale credit program. It is expected
that the willingness and financial capabilities of the community can be stimulated through this
program. Once they are aware of the benefits of good sanitation either as an individual or
as member of the community.

        •      Women participation (housewives). Women are often under represented in the
decision making process. In developing a strategy to promote community participation in the
sanitation development program, women, particularly housewives, should be involved in
every step of program development and not limited to the extension program currently
carried out through the community health centers. Housewives are members of the
community who often have to deal directly with the environmental problems, particularly the
management of the sanitation system. There are more women in the structure of Indonesian
society doing housewife duties at home than working outside. This shows that women and
children are the members of the community who spend most of their time at home so that
they are very vulnerable to the risks of poor environmental conditions.

       •      Disseminate the success of sanitation program at the bottom level. A system
should be developed to distribute the information on the successes of sanitation facility
management and development programs among the village communities. A visit made by a
community group from one village to the other to see the progress of sanitation program is
an effective mechanism of learning and program socialization.

        •      Direct fund allocation to the target community. The mechanism of fund
allocation currently used in the IDT program can be adapted. This system allows the related
communities to receive the funds without having to go through the rigid bureaucracy. There
are in fact no specific regulations that restrict the direct allocation of funds to the target
communities. The funds can be allocated directly to the target communities with the approval
of the related mayor (or Bupati) as long as they are capable in managing the funds.




                                               32
    ANNEX 1
• SUMMARY OF MoA
1n1L.JL~    1"\    •   ~umi'I"'I"V"t   ur    ..;t'"-"""II"U..   uc:;;.w~vrmc.t ..   t   vvll'lrVt,s:;.t,l...:l        vr   n.•r-"uur 111
                       OF THE TEN VILLAGES ACCORDING TO MoA
                                                                                                                                                                            h&eJdZ

   I       Survey Locations        !                 Social Development                        i                          Year of
No.I              Villa~
                                   !
                                                            Conmonents                              Volume             Implementation       I       Mana~ment              Remarks
 1. \North Jakarta :               i                                                           I
                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                            '
    1       Sungai Bambu                      Techn\cal Assistance (CDC.s)                       4 Person             199211993-199511996         KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
    I                                      PKPM for Village/LKMD Apparatus                      25 members                 1993/1994              KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                              PKPM for RT!RW Apparatus                          45 members                 1993/1994              KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                            PKPM for TSO & PLHM members                         15 members                 1993/1994              KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
    I
    I
                                               PKPM for KAPM members
                                                 KAPM Monthly Meeting
                                                                                                25 members
                                                                                                75members
                                                                                                                           1993/1994
                                                                                                                      1993/1994-1995!1996
                                                                                                                                                  KIP
                                                                                                                                                  KIP
                                                                                                                                                        PMU
                                                                                                                                                        PMU
                                                                                                                                                              of DKI
                                                                                                                                                              of DKI
                                                                                                                                                                              done
                                                                                                                                                                           never done
                                                      KKM Training                              41 members                 1993/1994              KIP   PMU   of DKI       never done
                                                 KKM Monthly Meeting                            123members            1993/1994-1995!1996         KIP   PMU   of DKI       never done
                                                  Extermination Disease
    I                                                    Ul'GK
                                             Enviroomental Health Education
                                                                                                 3 packages
                                                                                                 3 packages
                                                                                                 3 packages
                                                                                                                      1993/1994-1995!1996
                                                                                                                      1993/1994-1995!1996
                                                                                                                      199311994-199511996
                                                                                                                                                  KIP
                                                                                                                                                  KIP
                                                                                                                                                  KIP
                                                                                                                                                        PMU
                                                                                                                                                        PMU
                                                                                                                                                        PMU
                                                                                                                                                              of DKI
                                                                                                                                                              of DKI
                                                                                                                                                              of DKI
                                                                                                                                                                              done
                                                                                                                                                                              done
                                                                                                                                                                              done
    I
    I
                                                          UKS
                                               0 & M of Physical Facilities
                                                                                               j 3 packages           1993/1994-1995/1996         KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
    I                                          (Road. Ditches and Garden)                          15 members              199411995              KIP PMU of DKI       I     done
                                               0 & M of Physical Facilities
                                                       (Buildings)                                 15 members              1994/1995
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                            I     KIP PMU of DKI              done
 2. Central Jakarta :
                   Galur                       Social Workers Training                             25 members              1992/1993              KIP PMU of DKI              done
     i                                 Environment Health Development Training                     25 members     I        1992/1993              KIP PMU of DKI              done
 :;. j  West Jakarta :             I
    i      Kotabambu Utara                          Social Workers Training                        25 members     I        199111992              KIP PMU of DKI              done

    I
    I
                                   I Environmental
                                              Motivational C.ampaign
                                                   Health Development Training
                                                                                                   50 members
                                                                                                   25 members
                                                                                                                           1991/1992
                                                                                                                           1991/1992
                                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                                                                  KIP PMU of DKI
                                                                                                                                                  KIP PMU of DKI
                                                                                                                                                                              done
                                                                                                                                                                              done
 4. !West Jakarta :
                  Kalianyar                           Training for :
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I        1995/1996              KIP PMU of DKI
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                       I

    I
    I
    I
                                   I
                                   I
                                        Leadership I institutional Management for
                                           the apparatus of LKMD. RW/RT.
    I
                                          Village Youth Association and PKK                        30   members                                                               done
    I                                         Development Workers I KSM
                                                Kindergarten Management
                                                                                                   60
                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                        members
                                                                                                        members
                                                                                                                                                                              done
    I                                         Religious Group Management                           60   members
                                                                                                                                                                              done
                                                                                                                                                                              done
    I
    I                                        Mosque's Library Management                           60   members                                                               done
                                                    Education of :                                                         1995/1996              KIP PMU of DKI       I
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                     Healthy Life                                  60   members                                                               done
                                                    Healthy House                                  60   members
                                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                                                            I                          i      done
                                                      Sanitation
                                          Development Pattern at DKI Jakarta
                                                                                                   60
                                                                                                   60
                                                                                                        members
                                                                                                        members
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                            I                          I      done
                                                                                                                                                                              done
    I
    !
                                   I
                                   I
                                            Informatioo of alternatives and
                                                  access to housing                                60 members                                                                 done
 5. :East Jakarta :
             Pisangan Baru                     Technical Assistance (CDCs)                        4 Person            1992!1993-1995!1996         KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                            PKPM for Village/LKMD Apparatus                     25 members                 199311994              KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                               PKPM for RT!RW Apparatus                         50 members                 199311994              KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                             PKPM for TSO & PLHM members                        15 members                 1993/1994              KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                                 PKPM for KAPM members                          25 members                 199311994      '       KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                   I              KAPM Monthly Meeting
                                                       KKM Training
                                                                                                75 members
                                                                                                50 members
                                                                                                                      1993/1994-199511996 I
                                                                                                                           1993/1994      :
                                                                                                                                                  KIP
                                                                                                                                                  KIP
                                                                                                                                                        PMU
                                                                                                                                                        PMU
                                                                                                                                                              of DKI
                                                                                                                                                              of DKI
                                                                                                                                                                              done
                                                                                                                                                                              done
    I
                                   i
                                   I               KKM Monthly Meeting                         \150 members           199311994-1995!1996 I       KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                   !              Extermination of Disease                                            1993/1994-199511996         KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
    !                                                     UPGK
                                                                                               13packages
                                                                                                 3packages            1993/1994-1995/1996         KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                              Environmental Health Education                     3packages            1993/1994-1995/1996         KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                                           UKS                                   3packages            199311994-1995!1996         KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
    I
    I
                                   l
                                                0 & M of Physical Facilities
                                                (Road. Ditches and Garden)
                                                                                               1
                                                                                                   16 members              199411995
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                  KIP   PMU   of DKI          done
                                                0 & M of Physical Facilities
    I                                                   (Buildings)                            Its members                 1994/1995        '
                                                                                                                                                  KIP PMU of DKI              done

 6. /South Jakarta :               I                                                           I
    I
    '
    I
           Manggarai Selatan       i Forming The Village Working Group based on
    I
                                       the Instruction of DKI's Governor No. 1260190                1 package                                   KIP PMU ofDKI & CDC           done
    !
    i                                   Socialization of KIP-JUDP ill Program :
                                   I               Enviroomental Health                            25 members              1992/1993             KIP PMU of DKI &             done
    i
    I
                                   !                                                                                                             connectioo Agencies
                                                          Housing Healthy                          25 members              1992/1993             KIP PMU of DKI &             done
                                                                                                                                                 connectioo Agencies
                                                           Public Security                         25 members i            1992/1993             KIP PMU of DKI &             done
                                                                                                                                                 connectioo Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                   I            Education and Training of :                                                                                            i
    '                                               Youth Leadership                               15 members 1            !992! 1993           KIP PMU ofDKL Village I       done
       I Survey      Loc·ations     l            Social Development                                    Year of     I
Nc,J              Villane           i               Components                         Volume       Implementation         Management                    Remarks

       I                            I             Social Workers Training              50 members       1992/1993       KIP PMU ofDKI & CDC                  done

       I                            \
                                    l
                                                Initiation of KSM :
                                           KSM of Garbage Management              lOmembers 1992/1993-1993/1994   LKMD/K and CDC                              done
                                         KSM of Span Stadium Management         '10members 1992/1993-1993/1994      Social Workers                            done
                                             KSM of Healthy Housing               10 members 1992/1993-1993/1994 CDC & Social Workers                         done
                                    j KSM of Purify Water I Public Hydrant User   10members 1992/1993-1993/1994 CDC & Social Workers                          done
                                    I Technical Assistance of The KSM development:

                                    ~ KS:::~~i~:::_
                                                                                       28 members 1992/1993-1993/1994    Project Committee and                done
                                                                                                                                  CDC

                                                                                       20members         1992/1993         Project Committee                  done
                                                                                       20members    1992/1993-1993/1994           CDC                         done
                                               KSM of Garbage Management               10members    1992/1993-1993/1994 - Project Committee                   done
                                    1        KSM of Span Stadium Management            10members    1992/1993-1993/1994           CDC                         done
                                                 KSM of Healthy Housing                10members    1992/1993-1993/1994 Project Committee & CDC               done
                                                   Equipment : Typewriters               2 Unit         1993/1994       KIP PMU ofDKI & KSU                   done

  7.
       I
       IBogar Regency :
       i            Tugu                     Community Development Training for
                                                 Village & LKMD Apparatus              24membeiS        1993/1994        KIP PMU of Botabek                   done
                                    I
       !

       I                                     Community Development Training for
                                                     RT & RW Apparatus                 36members        1993/1994        KIP PMU of Botabek                   done
                                    I        Community Development Training for
                                                 User Group (TSO + CRO)                 9members        1993/1994        KIP PMU of Botabek                   done
                                        1
                                          Community Development Training for CDAG
                                                        KKM Training
                                                                                       30members
                                                                                       lOmembers
                                                                                                        1993/1994
                                                                                                        1993/1994
                                                                                                                        I KIP PMU of Botabek
                                                                                                                          KIP PMU of Botabek
                                                                                                                                                              done
                                                                                                                                                              done
                                               0 & M TSO and CRO Training               9members        1993/1994        KIP PMU of Botabek                   done
     ITangerang Muructpa
  8. I              .. li ty :

       1
                Jurumudi Baru                         Education for IPNI               15 members       1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             done
                                           Village Orientation Workshop I discussion   48members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             done
                                                 Basic Training of KSPIKUB             25members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             done
                                                     User Group Training               lSmembers        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             done
  9. Tangerang Regency :
                   Dadap                                 KKM Training                  40members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                                      User Group Training              19members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                                 Basic Training of KSP I KUB           24members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                                   Advance Training of KSP             24members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                                        Cooking Course                 40members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                                        Mechanics Course               18 members       1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                                    Electrical Work Course             18 members       1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                           Village Orientation Workshop I discussion   52 members       1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                               Second Follow up Meeting of KIP         28members        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
                                           Site Vtsit to KPSW 'Nuri' on Jatinegara     24membeiS        1994/1995         KIP   PMU   of Botabek               done
 10. Bekasi Regency :
                  Kalibaru                             Training for :
                                                      Board of LKMD                    12members         1993/1994        KIP PMU of Botabek                   done
                                             Board of RW and Project Committee         30members         1993/1994        KIP PMU of Botabek                   done
                                              Achievement Motivation for Youth         25 members        1993/1994        KIP PMU of Botabek                   done

Sol'Jl'f:t: :   MoA of   ~t:b   vilbge                                                                                                         c: \ 123R23 \ wied i SOS"'-1-l!'

Abbreviations :

CRO               Community Relation Organization
IPNI              Ikatan Pemuda Nurul lman (Nurul lman Youth Association)
KAPM              Kelompok Aksi Pengembangan Masyarakat (Community Development Action Group)
KKM               Kader Kesehatan Masyarakat (Community Health Worker)
KSM               Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat (Community Self-supporting Group)
KSl~              Kelompok Simpan Pinjam (Community Self-fmancing Group)
KUB               Kelompok Usaha Bersama (Multipurpose Group)
KPSW              Kelompok Pengembangan Swadaya Wanita (Women Self-supponing Development Group)
LKMD              Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat Desa (Village Development Council)
PKPM              Pelatihan Kepemimpinan Pengembangan Masyarakat (Community Development Leadership Training)
PLHM              Panitia Lokakarya I Hubungan Masyarakat (Community Relation Organization)
TSO               Technical Service Organizer
UKS               Usaha Kesehatan Sekolah (School's Clinic)
UPGK              Usaha Peningkatan Gizi Keluarga (Family Nutrition Improvement Group)
TABLE B            SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS OF KIP-JUDP Ill
                   OF THE TEN SAMPLE VILLAGES ACCORDING TO MoA
                                                                                                                                                                  Paso   1 of 3
         :Survey LocatillllS             Economic Development                                         Year of
No            Villa ReS                       Comuoneuts                        Volome             Imolemeutation             Mana2ement                     Remarb
     I
1.1       North Jakarta :
     i     Sungai Bambu                Technical Assistance (CDCs)              4 Person         1992'1993 - 1995/1996       KIP PMU of DKI                    done
                                        Management Training of :                                      1993/1994              KIP PMU of DKI
                                           Cooperation I sse                   20 members
                                          Small Scale Business             I   50members
                                                                                                                                                               done
                                                                                                                                                               done
                                       Business Motivation Training            25members              1993/1994              KIP PMU of DKI                 never done
                                                Marketing                      3 packages        199311994- 1995/1996        KIP PMU of DKI                 never done
                                          Seed. Capital/ sse of :                                                            KIP PMU of DKI
                                    Healthy Housing I CertifiCIItes /1MB         Sunil                1993/1994                                             never done
                               'I          Small Scale Business                86members         199311994 - 199411995                                      never done
                                     Skill Improvement Training of :                                  1994/1995              KIP PMU of DIG
                                                  Welding                      15members                                                                       done
                                                  Sewing                       20members                                                                       done
                                             Screening aothes                  15members                                                                       done
                                                Automotives                    15members                                                                       done
                                           Library Management                  15members                                                                       done
2.       Central Jakarta :
               Galur                Cooperation Management Training            25members              1992/1993              KIP   PMU   of   DKI              done
                                     Business Opportunities Training           25members              1992/1993              KIP   PMU   of   DKI              done

     I
     I
                                      Business Motiva lion Training
                                     Business Development Training         j
                                                                               25members
                                                                               25members
                                                                                             !
                                                                                                      1992/1993
                                                                                                      1992/1993          !
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                             KIP
                                                                                                                             KIP
                                                                                                                                   PMU
                                                                                                                                   PMU
                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                              DKI
                                                                                                                                              DKI
                                                                                                                                                               done
                                                                                                                                                               done

3.1       West Jakarta :
     I   Kota Bambu Utara                  &:anomies Training                  25members              1991/1992              KIP PMU of DKI             25 members per class
     l                                     Marketing Training                  25members              1991/1992              KIP PMU of DKI                  (3 class)
                                      &:anomies Advanced Training              2Smembers              199111992              KIP PMU of DIG

4.        West Jakarta :
             Kaliaoyar                     Seed Capital for :                                         1995/1996              KIP PMU of DKI
                                               Food Stall                       1 member                                                                       done
                                         Small Shop (Langsam)                  14 members                                                                      done
                                       Secondhand things Trader                 1 member                                                                       done
                                               Small Shop                      2 members                                                                       done
                                     Rental of Party's Equipment of
                                       Village Youth Association                  1 Unit                                                                       done
                                              Retail Trader                    33 members                                                                      done
                                            Printing Machine                      1 Unit                                                                       done
                                          Technical Training of :                                     1995/1996              KIP PMU of DKI

     I                                            Sewing
                                                Mechanics
                                                                                2 members
                                                                               9 members
                                                                                                                                                               done
                                                                                                                                                               done
     I                                         Driving Car
                                              Computer skill
                                                                               38 members
                                                                               5 members
                                                                                                                                                               done
                                                                                                                                                               done
     I
     I
                                               Flelctronics                    2 members                                                                       done
     I
     I
                                               Training of :                                          1995/1996              KIP PMU of DKI
                                     Small Scale Business Management           2S members
     I                                     Business Mot iva lion               60 members
                                                                                                                                                               done
     i                                                                                                                                                         done
s.,       East Jakarta :

     I    Pisangan Baru                Technical Assistance (CDCs)              4 Person         1992'1993 - 1995/1996       KIP PMU of DKI                    done
                                        Management Training of :                                      1993/1994          1   KIP PMU of DKI
                                             Cooperation I sse
                                            Small Scale Business
                                                                           I 28   members
                                                                               50 members
                                                                                                                                                    I          done

                                       Business Motivation Training            50 members    I        1993/1994        ·
                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                             KIP PMU of DKI
                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                               done
                                                                                                                                                               done
                                                Marketing                  I    3 packages   j
                                         Seed Capital/ sse for ,
                                                                                                 199311994 - 1995/1996 1     KIP PMU of DKI
                                                                                                                                                    i          done

                                    Healthy Housing I Certiftca tes I IMB
                                                                          'I
                                                                                 20unit      11993/1994 - I99411" ' !        KIP PMU of DKI
                                                                                                                                                    i          done
                                                                           I
                                           Small Scale Business
                                                                           i
                                                                               85 members
                                                                                                                                                    I          done
                                                                                                                                                                      l'a8c2o/l
         Suney Locations              Economic Development                                          Year of
No           Villages         I            Componenu                          Volnme             Im_j)lementation                Management                     Remarb
                                       Technical Training of :                                                              KIP PMU of DKI
                                             Elek1:ronics                   15   members           1994 !1995                                                     done
                                              Welding                       15   members            1994/1995                                                     done
                                               Sewing                       28   members       1993/1994- 1994/1995                                               done
                                         Screening Clothes                  15   members            199411995                                         I           done
                                         Library Education                  15   members            1994/1995                                                     done
6.        South Jakarta :
         Manggarai Selatan             Cooperatives Campaign                20 members              1992/1993              Government and CDC                     done
                                    Education and Training of :
                                     Cooperatives Management                30 members              1992!1993            Project Committee, CDC                   done
                                                                                                                                 and KSU
                                       Business Opportunities               25 members              1992/1993            Government and CDC                       done
                                        Business Motivation
                                       Business Development
                                                                            25 members              1992/1993          I Government and CDC                       done
                              I                                        ;
                                                                            25 members              1992/1993          I Government and CDC
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                  done
                              IInitiationKSU
                                          ofKIP-JUDP III Groups:
                                             of RW's level                       1 Unit        1992/1993 - 1993/1994 Government, CDC & KSU
                                                                                                                                                      I



                                                                                                                                                                  done
                                    KSM of Small Scale Indus try                 1 Unit        1992/1993 - 1993/1994   Project Committee                          done
     !
     ;
                              i
                                  Seed Capital/ Credit for :
     I                          Working Capital for KSU I Unit               3 packages        1992/1993 -1993/1994        Government and KSU                     done
                                     SSC for Small Scale
     I                        I
                                      Industries I Traders
                                  Working Capital for KSM
                                                                            SO members
                                                                              4 KSMs
                                                                                               1992/1993 - 1993/1994 Government, CDC & KSU
                                                                                                     1993/1994        Government. LKMD!K
                                                                                                                                                                  done
                                                                                                                                                                  done
7        Boger Regency :
  -1
     I         Tugu               Small Scale Business I Cooperation
                                          Business Training
                                             Automotives
                                                                            20 members
                                                                            15 members
                                                                                           I        1993/1994
                                                                                                    1993/1994
                                                                                                                           KIP PMU of Botabek                     done
                                                                                                                           KIP PMU of Botabek                     done
8.1 Tangerang Municipality:
     I    Jurumudi llaru            Cattish llreeder Association            23 members         1994/1995 - 1995/1996       Kll' l'MU ol llotabek                not acttve
     I
     !
                                    Family Welfare 'Sartika Jaya'
                                             Assoeiation                    10   members       1994/1995 -1995/1996        KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             not active
                              I                 IPNI                        27   members       1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             not active
                                          UP2K - Bangdes                    14   members       1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of   Botabek               active
                                           UP2K - Banwal                    20   members       1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of   Botabek               active
                                         UP2KA - BKKBN                      10   members       1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             not active
                                          UP2KA - Telkom                    10   members       1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of   Botabek               active
9.1 Tangerang Regency :
              Dadap                  Tunas Bahari Cooperation               36 members         1993/1994- 1995/1996        KIP   PMU   of Botabek                 active
                                   UP2K-Tunas Kencana Bangdes               48 members         1993/1994 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of Botabek               not active
                                       LKM 'Nurul Qomar'                    13 members         1994/1995- 1995/1996        KIP   PMU   of Botabek                 active
                                         LKM "AI Barkah'                    35 members         1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of Botabek                 active
                                       LKM "Bunga Bahari'                   33 members         1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of Botabek                 active
                                      LKM 'Pulpen & Perea'                  10 members         1994/1995- 1995/1996        KIP   PMU   of Botabek               not active
                                          KSP at RW-05                       8 members         1994/1995 - 1995/1996       KIP   PMU   of Botabek                 active
                                        KSP at RT -01/ 01                   16 member.;        1994/1995- 1995/1996        KIP   PMU   of Botabek                 active
                                        KSP at RT-25/07                                    I
                                        (Amanah Masakini)                   20 members 11994/1995 - 1995/1996              KIP PMU of Botabek                     active
     I
                                        KSP at RT -02 I 01


10.,
     I   Bekasi Regency :
                                          (Bahari Mujur)                    13 members 11994/1995 - 1995/1996              KIP PMU of Botabek                     active



     i       Kalibaru                 Nurul Amal Cooperatives              Rp 30.000.000.- 1993/1994 - 1995/1996           KIP PMU of Botabek             Funded byKIP-JUDP III
     I                                  9 basic need foods                                                                                                   (Rp 19.000.000.-)

     i
     I
                                        Customer Service of
                                     State Electricity Enterprise
                                                                           Rp 10.000.000,- 1993/1994 - 1995/1996
                                                                            500 customers
                                                                                                                           KIP PMU of Botabek         IFunded byKIP-JUDPIII
                                                                                                                                                           (Rp 6.587.000.-)
     I
     i
                              I
                              I   Bricks & Cone Bloeks Industry :          Rp 6.000.000.- 1993/1994 - 1995/19961 KIP PMU of Botabek                           not funded by
                              I          Pressing Machines             !      3 Unit                                                 !
                                                                                                                                                              KIP- JUD P III
                                                                                          1
                              I          Business Location             I      3 Unit      i
     :                        I
                              ;
                                          Working Capital              l   Rp 1.500.000,-                                           ''
     i                                    Welding Shop :
                                          Genset (2.5 PK)
                                                                       IRp 9.000.000.-
                                                                            1 Unit
                                                                                               1993/1994- 1995/1996        KIP PMU of Botabek         i       not funded by
                                                                                                                                                              KIP- JUD P Ill
                                        Grindstone machines                 2 Unit
                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                       I
                                          Drilling machine                  1 Unit
                                                Tools                  I
                                                                       I
                                                                            1 Unit                                                                    I
                                         Business Loeation             I     1 Unit                                                                   !
                                                                                                                                                      i
     i                                    Working Capital              I Rp 2.000.000.- !
     I
                              '                                        :                                                                              !
No
         Survey Locatiooa
              Villages      I       Economic Development
                                         ComponenU                       Volume
                                                                                               Year of
                                                                                            Implementation           Mimagement
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                  Remarb


                            I         Loan & Saving Fund           Rp 10.000.000,- 1993/1994 - 1995/19961 KIP PMU of Botabek           I Funded  byKIP-JUDPlli
                            I
                            I
                                         Bicycles Credit           Rp 20.000.000.-11993/1994 - 1995/1996      I
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                  KIP PMU of Botabek
                                                                                                                                              (Rp 8.500.000,-)
                                                                                                                                               not funded by

  I                               Garbage Self-management :        Rp 42.500.000.- 1993/1994 - 1995/1996          KIP PMU of Botabek
                                                                                                                                               KIP-JUDP Ill·

                                                                                                                                           Funded byKIP-JUDPIII
                                        Garbage Truck                  1 Unit                                                          I       (Rp 2.000.000,-)
                                            Tools                      1 Unit
                                       Working Capital             Rp 2.000.000.-

                                I..KMD's Market Traders Credit for: Rp 29.000.000.- 1993/1994 - 1995/1996         KIP PMU of Botabek           not funded      by
                                                                                                                                               KIP-JUDP        III
                                       Market at RW 01                 60 members            Rp 6.000.000,-                                    not funded      by
                                                                                                                                               KIP- JUDP       III
                                       Market at RW 05                 140 members          Rp 14.000.000.-                                    not funded      by
                                                                                                                                               KIP-JUDP        III
                                        Market at RW 06                 90 members           Rp 9.000.000.-                                    not funded      by
                                                                                        I
                                                                                        !                     I
                                                                                                                                               KIP-JUDP        III

                                Environmental Improvement Credit   I   Rp 6.000.000.-   i 1993/1994- 1995/19961   KIP PMU of Botabek       Funded by KIP-JUDP Ill
                                             (KPL)                 I      6 Pokja       I
                                                                                                                                                e: \ I23R23 \wied\ekoaoal-c-



Abbreviatiooa

BKKBN       Badan Koordinasi Keluarga Berencana Nasional (National Family Planning Coordination Agency)
CDC         Community Development Coordinator
IPNI        lkatan Pemuda Nurul Iman (Nurul Iman Youth Association)
KPL         Kredit Perbaikan Lingkungan (Environmental Improvement Credit)
KSM         Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat (C'.ommunity Self-supporting Groups)
KSP         Kelompok Simpan Pinjam (Community Self-fmancing Group)
KSU         Koperasi Serba Usaha (Multipurpose Cooperative)
I..KM       Lembaga Keuangan Masyarakat (Community Self-fmancing Institution)
sse          SmaU Scale Credit
Telkom       Telecommunication Company
UP2K        Usaha Peningkatan Pendapatan Keluarga (Family's Income Improvement Institution)
UP2KA       Usaha Peningkatan Pendapatan Keluarga Akseptor (Family's Acceptor Income Improvement Institution)
TABLE C          SUMMARY OF SANITATION COMPONENTS OF KIP-JUDP Ill OF THE TEN SAMPLE VILLAGES                                                           ACCORDING TO MoA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .. - ...   ( J

             Su!:!!;l Loca~!~ ____                  Sanitation                                        Yoar of
No.           ViliDRo          RW                  Components                        Volume        lmolomontation            ManBRoment                  Typo                             Remarb                              Status

 I.   North Jakarta :

           Sw1gai Bambu                    Garbage Ca ru. Garbage Bb1              (:W, 1 Unit)   1993/1994-1994/1995      KIP PMU of DKI                 new
                             03.                         -                              -                  -                       -
                             07.                         -                              -                  -                       -
2.    Centrnl Jakarta :

               Galur                              Garbage Carts                      8 Unit       1991/1992-1993/1994      KIP   PMU   of DKI            new
                             02'                  Public Toilet                      1 Unit           1993/1994           KIP    PMU   of DKI     new C:OIUtruclion                                                         not built
                                                  Public Hydrant                     1 Unit            1993/1994          KIP    PMU   of DKI            new
                              03                  Public Toilet                      1 Unit           1993/1994           KIP    PMU   of DKI       Rehsbilitstioo                                                          JJol built
                             ().j                 Public Hydrant                     1 Unit            1991/1992          KIP    PMU   of DKI            new
                              05                      Ditches                         7Sm             1993/1994           KIP    PMU   of DKI       Rehabilitatia1             Includes the work at RW 06
                              ()6                     Ditches                         15m             1993/1994           KIP    PMU   of DKI       Rehabilitation             Includes the work at RW 05
                             07                       Ditches                         574m            1992/1993           KIP    PMU   of DKI       Reha bilitatia1

3.    West Jakarta :

         Kotabnmbu Utara     01'           Garbage Cart. Garbage Bu ..             (1. 4 Unit)        1991/1992            KIP PMU     of DKI            new
                             02'           Garbage Cart. Garbage Bins              (1. 4 Unit)       1991/1992             KIP PMU     of DKI            new
                             03.           Garbage Cart. Garbage Bins              (1. 4 Unit)       1991/1992             KIP PMU     of DKI            new
                             04'                 Public Toilet                        1 Unit         1993/1994            KIP PMU      of DKI     new comtruction                                                           not buill
                                           Garbage Cart. Garbage Bbl5              (1. 4 Unit)       1991/1992            KIP PMlf     of DKI           new
                             05            Garbnge Cart. Garbage Bills             (1. 3 Unit)       1991/1992            KIP PMU      of DKI           new
                             06                   Garbage Cart                        1 Unit         1991/1992            KIP PMU      of DKI           new
                             07                   Garbage Cart                        1 Unit         1991/1992            KIP PMU      of DKI           new
                             08                   Public Toilet                      1 Unit          1993/1994            KIP PMU      of DKI     new construction                                                          not built
                             09                   Garbage Bins                       6 Unit          1991/1992            KIP PMU      of DKI           new

4.    Wost Jakarta :

             Kaliauynr     01-09        Garbage Carts. Garbage Cart>               18, 18 Unit        1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI
                                      Transportb1g dredged mud to TPA               500 trips         1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI
                              02               Road side ditches                      1750m           1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI            Rehabilitation
                             OJ •               Public Toileu                        2 Unit          1987.!1: 1996      CommWJity •ollholp .dl:                             Not related to KIP-JUDP Ill
                                                                                                                         Priwte Bnlorpreneur
                                                Public Toilet                        1 Unit                              Community •ollholp       new con.truction      Ha• no rolation with KIP-JUDP Ill
                                              Road side ditches                       530m            1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI            Reba bilitation
                                      Dredgbtg of the Connoctb'S Ditches              :WOm            1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI
                             05                 Public Toilet                        1 Unit                             Priwte Bntetpreneur              new            lias no relation with KIP-JUDP Ill
                                       Human Waste Disposal Treatment
                                               Plant (Pilot Project)                 1 Unit           1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI
                                                     Ditcht~s                     1770m. 60m          1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI            Rehabilitation.
                                                                                                                                                  new construction
                             08.                 Public T;,il.,t•                    3 Unit          198961; 1991        CommwJily sol/help                             lias no relation with KIP-JUDP Ill
                                               Ditches. Sew-erage                  (60. 20m)          1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI          new construction
                                               Connecting Ditches                     350m            1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI
                                           Dredgbtg of the Sewerage                  !680m            1995/1996           KIP PMlf of DKI
                                     lust...-.llation of water supply pipe 75mm      300m             1995/1996           KIP PMU of DKI          new construction

5.    East Jakarta :

           Pis;msan Baru                       Connecting Ditches                     1960m           199111992          KIP     PMU   of DKI       Reha bilitatia1   Includes the work of the 1991/1992 fl!Cal year
                                                  Public Toilet                       1 Unit         1994/1995           KIP     PMU   of DKI     new comtruclion                                                         neW>r buill
                                         Garlxtge Carts. GarbAge Bins             (65. 180 Unit) 1991/1992-1992/1993     KIP     PMU   of DKI           new
                                              Garbage Container                       I Unit          1993/1994          KIP     PMU   of DKI           new
                             07.                  Public Toilet                       1 Unit          199411995                    -                      -                 1710   •optic -tank ;. sonoratt:td          llad boon built
                                                                                                                                                                                    to produco biogas                  •inco 20 y011n •so
                             12.           ~~~-~---~-~------------                 --   "'~L-                                      -
"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .   .   Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           . .J
                                                      Sanitation                                    Year of
         1-·-- Survey~!~~ - - · - -
                                                     Compone~~nt1                   Volume       Implementation          Mana&oment                    T11J>O                           ReiD8rb                             Statua
    No. .. --·Village ·- ..      RW                                                                                                                                    -·                                 --·-·-··--·----
    6.   South Jnkarto :

            Mauggarai Selatan   01- 10              Garbage Carts                   75 Unit        199211993             Gownune11t                     new
                                 02.                        -                            -             -                       -                         -                                 -                                  -
                                  05                    Ditches                    (300. 395m)     199211993             Govennnettl           new constructiat
                                                                                                                                                Rehabilitati011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                            TPS (Temporary Dump Site)                12m2         199211993        Community selOtelp          new ca~utruction
                                 06.               Public Toilet                     48m2         1992/1993        Community •ollhelp           Reh•bilit.ation       lla• been buill by PLP, Dop. of Public Wor.b
                                             Put a fence along the river             500ru        1992/1993           Govenunent               new constructia1
                                  07      Dredging of tho CoiUtocting Ditch          500rn        199211993           Govenunet't               Rehabilitation
                                                      Ditch lid                        .6m        1992/1993           Govenunent               new construction
                                  09             Road side sewomge                    lOOm        1992/1993           Govenuuent                Rehabilitation

    7.   Uogor RegealCy :

                  Tugu            01                Road side ditches                  94Sm       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek      new construction               includes the work at RW 02
                                                  Road side sewerage                    191U      1993 I 1994      KIP PMU     of Bolabek      new c.:onstructiou             iu.cludes the "\Nark at RW 02
                                                     Control Points                  4 Unit       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek            new
                                  02     Ditches along vehicular road & footpath      1178 JU     1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek      new construction               includes the work at RW 01
                                                   Connecting ditches                  127rn      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek      new construction               includes the work at R W 01
                                                  Road side sewerage                    19m       1993 I 1994      KIP PMU     of Botabek      new construction               btcludos the work at RW 01
                                                     Control points                   3 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek               new
                                  03           Public toilet (2 Cloool•)             1 Unit       1993/1994       KIP PMU      of Botabelc             new                                                                  buill
                                              Deep well and Hand-pump                 1 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek              new
                                              Ditches along the footpath               360m       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new construction                  nt RT 02. 09 and 10
                                                   Cotmecting Ditches                   42m       1993/!994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new construction
                                             Sewerage along the footpaUt               1.5 Ill    1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Bolabek       new cortstruction
                                                     Control points                   3 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek             new                           at RT 09 and 10
                                  04                Road side ditches                  470111      199311994       KIP PMU     of Botabek       new con.structia1
                                                   Connecting ditches                   20rn      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new coustructia.1
                                                     Control points                   3 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek             new
                                  OS          Ditches along Ute footpath               502m       199311994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new constructia1                    at RT 05 and 06
                                                   Connecting ditches                   59m       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new constructia•
                                             Sewerage along the footpath                Sm        1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new constructiou
                                                     Control points                   5 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek             new                           at RT 05 and 06
                                 06.          Public toilol• (2 Cloool•)             2 Unil       1993/1994       KIP PMU      o£ Botabol      now comtruction                     at RT 03 and 05                          buill
                                                 Well and Hand-pump                   1 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new constructia1
                                                Well and Eloctric-punrp               1 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new construction
                                         Ditches along vehicular road & footpath      l626m       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new constructia1
                                                   Connecth1g ditches                  235m       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new coustructial                   at RT 01 and 03
                                                        Sewerage                       138m       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botobek       new construcUa.1
                                                     Control points                  16 Unit      1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek             new                       at RT 01. 02. 03 and OS
                                              Garbage carts. Garbage bb1           (4. I Unit)    1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek             new
                                  07     Ditches along vehicular road & footpath      1484m       1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new construction
                                                   Connecting ditches                 92m         1993!1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new cou.structial                  at RT 02 and 09
                                               Ditches along the footpath            40.Sm        1993/1994        KIP PMU     of Botabek       new conslructia•                   at RT 09 and 10
                                                     Control points                  12 Unit      199311994        KIP PMU     of Botabek              new                      at RT 02. 03. 09 and 10

                                 08           Ditches along     the footpath          179m        199311994        KIP   PMU   of   Botabek     new   construction                 at RT 04 and 05
                                 09.           Public loilel    (2 Cla&el•)          1 Unit       1993/1994       KIP    PMU   of   Botabol    now    con&truction                                                          buill
                                               Public toilet    (4 Clooet•)          l Unit       1993/1994       KIP    PMU   of   Botabolr   new    constructicxJ                                                         built
                                              Ditches along     tho footpath          1427m       199311994        KIP   PMU   of   Botabek     new   construction                at RT 01. 02 and OS
                                                     Control    poinb                21 Unit      199311994        KIP   PMU   of   Botabek             new                     at RT 01. 02. 05 and 06
                                              Garbage carts.    Garbage bbt        (4, I Unit)    1993/1994        KIP   PMU   of   Botabek            new
                                  10          Ditches along     the footpath          106m        1993/1994        KIP   PMU   of   Botabek    new construction                        at RT 08
                                                                   ~-
                                                         ----
                                                                         -~-~
                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P•••     .J tJ/ J
               Survev Locatiau                          Sanit.tion                                     Year of
No.              Villa11e           RW                  Comoononta                   Volume         lmD.lementation         Manaaement                     Twe                               Remarks                           Statu•

 8.     Tangerang Municipality :

             Jurumudi Bnru                   Garbage cam. Garbage bins              (5, 2 Unit)        1993/1994         KIP PMU   of   Botabek             new
                                   01-02 Ditches along vehicular rood & footpath       1060m           1993/1994         KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new constructia•
                                              Ditches along the footpath               1600m           1993/1994         KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new construction
                                     01              Public toilet                    1 Unit          1993/1994         KIP PMU    of   BotaboJ:   new const.ruct.ioa                                                           built
                                                       Public laps                     2 Unit          1993/1994         KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new construction
                                                    Deep well/ pump                    1 Unit          1993/1994         KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new construction
                                    02.              Public toilol•                   1 Unit          1993/1994         KIP PMU    of   BotaboJ:   new coa.tructiOIJ                                                            built
                                                    Deep well/ pump                    1 Unit     1993/1994-1994{1995    KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new constructia•
                                    03               Public toilol                    1 Unit          1993/1994         KIP PMU    of   BotaboJ:   new comtructioa                                                              built
                                                    Deep well/ pump                    1 Unit          1993/1994         KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new con.structia1
                                    04.              Public toilet                    1 Unit      1993/1994- 1994119    KIP PMU    of   BotaboJ:   new comtruction                                                              built

 9.     Tangerang Regency :

                 Dadap               01                   Deep well                    1 Unit         1994!1995          KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new   construction   Annual M<'<>ting"s Material of KIP-JUDP III 1995
                                    04                    Deep well                   1 Unit          1994/1995          KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new   constructicu   Annual Meetint~"• Material of KIP-JUDP III 1995
                                    05.                Public toilell                 2 Unit          1994/1995         KIP PMU    of   BotaboJ:   new    comtruction                                                           built
                                                          Public lap                   1 Unit         1994/1995          KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new   constructial   Annual Meeting's Material of KIP-JUDP JlJ 1995
                                                 Ditches along tho footpath           2994m           1994/1995          KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new   construction   Annual Meetinp;"s Material of KIP-JUDP Ill 1995
                                    07.                Public toilotl                 2 Unit          1994/1995         KIP 'PMU   of   BotaboJ:   new    construction                                                          built
                                                        . Public lap                  1 Unit          199411995          KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new   construction   Annual Meeting's Material of KIP-JUDP Ill 1995
                                                  Local roods and ditcheo          (907 x 3) m2       1994!1995          KIP PMU   of   Botabek     new   construction   Annual Meeting's Material of KIP-JUDP Ill 1995



 10. Bekasi Regency :

                Kolibaru                        Garbage cam. Garbage bins          (14, 14 Unit) 1993/1994-1995/1996 KIP PMU of Botabek                    new
                                    OJ•                 Public toilet                 1 Unit     1993/1994-1995/199 KIP PMU of BotaboJ:            now construction                                                            buill
                                                        Public toilet                 1 Unit     1993/1994-1995/199 KIP PMU of BotaboJ:              rehabilitation                                                            done
                                                 Ditches along tho footpath            575 JU    1993/1994-1995/1996 KIP PMU of Botabek             new coalllruction
                                    02.                Public toilet•                 2 Unit     1993/1994-1995/199 KIP PMU of BotaboJ:            new comtrucliOil                                                            built
                                                          Ditches                      736m      1993/1994-1995/1996 KIP PMU of Botabek             new c:onstruction
                                     03                Public toilet.                 1 Unit     199311994-1995/199 KIP PMU of BotaboJ:            new cOIJitructiot.l                                                         buill
                                                          Ditches                      564m      1993/1994-1995/1996 KIP PMU of Botabek             new construction
                                     04                   Ditches                     833,8 In   1993/1994-1995/1996 KIP PMU of Botabek             new coustructiou
                                     05                Public toilet                  1 Unit     1993/1994-1995!199 KIP PMU of BotaboJ:            new coutruction                                                             buill
                                                         Ditches                       285m      199311994-199511996 KIP PMU of Botabek            new construction
                                     06                  Ditches                     1127.7111   1993/1994-1995/1996 KIP PMU of Botabek            new construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .,_-ll1JJt':.•,u..IMUf••k·•

Sourco : MoA of tJach villaso

Notoa
           Survey II.)Cations
l.PS/      Lokasifl'empat Pemhuanp.an Sementnrn (Temporary Dump Site)
TPS
TPA        Tompat PomUuangau Akhir (Final Dump Site)
    ANNEX 2
• VILLAGE PROFILE
                              Profile of Sungai Bambu Village

Description:

          Structurally this village is umier the            • Village name: Sungai Bambu
administration of Tanjung Priok sub-district, North
Jakarta, it is situated close to the Tanjung Priok          • Village area: 236 ha
Harbor ami the office of the Mayor of North Jakarta.
'The Sungai Buntu which also serves as one of the           • Village inhabitants:   30~972
City of Jakarta flood drainage system crosses along           No. ofRWs: 10
this village.
                                                            • Inhabitants of KIP area: 14,045
Environmental Condition:                                      RWs included in KIP area: RW 03, 05, 06
                                                              and07
          The maintenance of the sanitation system in
this village is still very poor. Before the North           • Sttl'Jiey locati!Jns: RW03 and 07
Jakarta mayor's instruction on improved sanitation is         Ar~a ofsurveY loca.titms: 8 Ha
in force, the local community built their toilets,            Survey locations a.rea in percent
popularly known as "helicopters", along the river             of village area: 3%
banks. Today the number of these "helicopters" has
declined, but due to scarcity of land and space to          • Survey location inhabitants: 5,348
build the' required septic tanks, most of the people          Survey location inhabitants in percent
are still using the river as a sewer to dispose their         of village inhabitants: 17%
human waste.

          Almost all areas in this village are inundated
during heavy rainy season. The flood is caused by
poor drainage of the Sungai Buntu, high tide, ami the flood transfer from the neighboring village, Warakas, not
to mention the unsolved problem of poor garbage management. The effort for garbage management has been
initiated by collecting Rp.I,OOO to Rp.J,500jrom each household to pay the services of the garbage collectors
using traditional garbage carts. The garbage cart is 'also provided in every RW (Local Community Organization),
the cart is also used as a temporary garbage dump. Unfortunately, The garbage truck from the Dinas Kebersihan
(City Sanitation Services) does not visit the area everyday to collect the garbage ami this has caused the
increasing volume of garbage ami the spill over.

        The Sungai Bambu village is situated on the Java coastline, its groumi water is salty and not
consumable. To meet the need of clean water supply most of the people are using PDAM's (City Clean Water
Supply Services) services or they buy it from the clean water vemiors. The City Water Service network has
covered the whole area of this village, but it is still unsatisfactory as its quality is poor during dry season.
sometimes it just doesn't run.

Details of KIP-JUDP III Implementation:

          There has never been any implementation ofprogram on sanitation facilities in this area. The program
implementation is mainly focused on building roads (1, 7 Km), footpath (2 Km), and provision of garbage carts
(20) which in fact, these carts have never been distributed to the RWs. The skills training was provided but the
result is still ineffective as· no follow-up activities have been carried out such as post-training program and/or
the provision of marketing facilities.

 Main Findings:

         There is an urgent need for family toilets and septic tanks in this village but there are two problems in
providing these facilities. First is the unavailability of lami or space, and second, is the topographical condition
of the area as the village is situated only a few meters above the sea level. The KIP-JUDP Ill program
implementation in this village is concemrated on flood prevention as some RWs (including RW 10) still encounter
flood problem every year.



                                                        - l -
       Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
                     Location of Surveyed Area :
         SUNGAI BAMBU VILLAGE, NORTH JAKARTA




      - , Kelurahan Boundary   ~      River/CanalfLake/Sea   r--1    Offices, lndust~ Warehouse              NORTH
'===-=-::
•
            BalaS Kelurahan
      - , Area of Survey
                               ~ Sungai/KanaliOanau/Laut     L _ _ j Pefkanforan, lrlustn, Pergudangan
                                                                                                                 A
      _J Watayah Surva1                                                                                      SCALE/SKALA
                                                                                                              , :15.000
Ill Ill Main Road                                                                                        0           300m
                                      Profile of Galur Village


Description:

          This village is umler the administration of        • Village name: Galur
.Johar Baru sub district, Central Jakarta. its location
is in the Senen triangle area. This village is also one.     • Village area: 26 ha
of the recipients of IDT (lnpres Desa Tertinggal)
program in Central Jakarta. Galur village is                 • Village inhabitants: 18,387
 notorious for its high crime rate and gangs disputes.         No. ojRWs: 7

                                                             • Inhabitants of KIP area: 18,387
Environmental Condition:                                       RWs included in KIP area: RW OJ, 02, 03,
                                                               04, OS, 06 and 07
         The sanitation condition is very poor. Most
houses do not have septic tanks, the waste is
                                                             • Survey locations: RW 01 and 02
disposed into the ditches in the area. Most of the             Area of survey locations: 12 ha
available MCKs do not have septic tanks and dispose            Survey loc(ltions area in percent
their waste to Sentiong River. Some of the local
                                                               of village area: 46%
residents even do it right on the river.
                                                             • Survey location inhabitants: 5,276
         Garbage management is a serious problem               Survey location inhabitants in percent
in this village and the City Sanitation Service is             of village inhabitants: 29%
incapable to handle it. To meet the need of clean
water, the residents usually collect the water
provided by city water service or buy it from the
available water vendors.

         The overcrowding households and the large number of seasonal visitors who live in semi-permanent
houses have made this area even worse. The seasonal visitors come here to stay periodically and work as street
vendors, traditional market helpers or work at construction site as manual labors. Although the population
density in this area is high, floods never occur because all the drainage systems are functioning well.


Details of KJP-JUDP Ill Implementation:

         The priority of the program implementation is given to the infrastructure rehabilitation such as
maintenance of roads and drainage systems. It is stated in the MoA that an MCK would be constructed for RW
02, but until today this has not been implemented. There are three MCKs available and used by the community
which were provided by Bapindo, Telkom and LKMD and not by the KIP-JUDP Ill. One of these three is
currently out (~f order, the sewer spills over the unit causing an unpleasant smell over the neighborhood. There
are two other MCKs in RW 02 provided by individuals and all of them are without septic tanks. Though skills
training has been given to the community, the results are yet insignificant.


Main findings:

         The need for toilets and septic tanks is also great in this village, but the scarcity of land is again the
problem. The implementation of the KIP-JUDP program was generally focused on the construction of roads
and drainage systems to prevent some areas from flood. No training has been provided for the community. It
has been the intention of the KIP JUDP III program to establish KSP (save-loan cooperatives) to provide small-
scale credits for the community. It is expected that this program will directly benefit the community of Galur
village.



                                                           -2-
                             Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
                                            Location of Surveyed Area :
                                   GALUR VILLAGE, CENTRAL JAKARTA

                                                                                                                                                                       . ·.· ;;! t.P TENCi\1-1     .
                                                                                                                                                                           er    ci:q'~NG,il.l:f
                                                                                                                                                                           ~ . c:Pi:t~iG,o<H
                                                                                                                                                                      ·.. "' c pTENQAfl
                                                                                                                                           CEIMPJU!:•<·PUITtH        fiAYA . ·· •• · •·
                                                                                                                                                                      .      ·o.- ••··     .
                                                                                                                                                                            ···~T_fNGJIH
                                                                                                                                                                             .:~TEr-iGAH
                                                                                                                                                                              ~:    M P:..
                                                                                                                                                                              J:   ·ll:   ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                 ..
                                                                                                                                                                          s TI;NGAH
                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                          -~'6




                             Kelurahan Boundary                 ~River/Canal/Lake/Sea                             ~ Offices,lndustrv. \Morehouse                                                             NORTH
                         I   Batas Kelurahan                    ~ Sungai/KanaVOanau/Laut                          L___j Peii<antor-an. li"idustro. Pergudangan                                                      ~


       ;~~~~~~;· ~d=y~~ s~~                   5
                                                                E3 J:,Ra'8=i:.!.lwa:-:n~.I!: e: re=ta: -;A.-:p"'i \-: ..:--- .. :,·:-7··· Ig~~~hAHij:u                                                       SCALEIS          LA

[
       ';.-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-;:l_~.~-~-~-~-~-a_~_~
    ....                                                        ,_~-~-~-~.~-~.;_':- =_~_id•;•;•i~.ia•~-~- re•a
                                                     ____________            •·.}_:
                                                                               . __                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-.0  . :1•5•.000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 . ..   3•00--m__.
                            Profile of Kotabambu Utara Village

Description:

         This village is under the administration of         • Village name: Kotabambu Utara
Palmerah sub-district, West Jakarta. It is close to the
Tanah Abang Market and Railway Station. The                  • Village area: 63 ha
village of Kotabambu Utara is a new village, it was
part of the village of Kotabambu and confirmed by
                                                             • Village inhabitants: 26,330
the Governor's Decision Letter No.I57311992. There             No. of RWs: 9
is a major road construction project in this area
connecting K.S. Subun Street and Tanah Abang
                                                             • Inhabitants of KIP area: J9,115
Railway Station (Pelni - Jatiharu Connection).
                                                               RWs included in KIP area: RW OJ, 02, 03,
                                                               04, 05, and 06
Environmental condition:
                                                             • Survey locations: RWOl, 02, 03 and 04
         The community of this village is divided into
                                                               Area of survey locations: 22 ha
two contrast social-economic groups, the first is the          Survey locations area in percent
group of households in the Amandole residential and
                                                               of village area: 35%
the Harapan Kita Hospital areas which are located
in RWs 06, 07 and 08. The houses of this group are
                                                             • Survey location inhabitants: 12,521
properly constructed in a good environmental
                                                               Survey location inhabitants in percent
condition. The second is the group of kampung                  of viilage inhabitants: 47%
houses with poor sanitation condition. They are
located in RWs OJ, 02, 03, 04, 05 and 09. The
poorest condition is in the RWs OJ, 02 and 03 within
the road construction area.

         Generally, the saniwtion condition of this area is still poor. Many household toilets are built without
septic tanks. Some people use the drainage as a sewage as well as a place to dump their garbage. Some of the
locals, particularly those in RWs 02 and 03 send their human waste right to the nearest flood canal using miles
of PVC pipes. Garbage management is not a major problem in this area, it is carried out by village official.\'
together with the community (RWs). The garbage is collected daily from every house and the fee is Rp.500 a
week. The weekly fee is higher for households with garment businesses as they produce more garbage than
regular households. Most of the community use City Water Supply Service for their household needs, others buy
from the water vendor. Some households use water wells not to consume, but for other purposes.

Details of KIP-JUDP III Implementation:

          The implementation of the program is focused on the provision of MCKs in RWs 04 and 08 and a/.1·o
the distribution of garbage cans and carts. In this two RWs, the MCKs were not provided by the KJP-JUDP /II
they were provided by private sector. A non-bank financial institution (BMT "Amanah ") which is noll'
functioning, was facilitated by a community development coordinator.

Main findings:

          The need for private toilets with septic tanks is also high, but to build these toilets, there are two major
problems, the first is the availability of land and the second is lack of sanitation and environment awareness of
the local COI/111/Wlity. The benefit resultt'd from the Kl P-JUDP III program implementation is flood prevention
as the ditches and drainage in some areas have been rl'habilitated. The flood is expected to be a problem again
during rainy season after the road pn?ject close the ditches, particularly to households located between tile
project area and the village Kotabambu Selatan.

         From all intangible programs carried out by KIP-JUDP Ill, the small-scale loan program is the most
successful as it directly benefits the people. The total loan investment in this program is Rp.43,000,000
distributed to 95 debtors. The implementation of the other programs involves the Yayasan Bunga Melati NCiO
where most of its members are local citizens.

                                                          -3-
          Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
                        Location of Surveyed Area :
          KOTABAMBU UTARA VILLAGE, WEST JAKARTA




r-----1   Kelurahan Boundary   ~ River/CanaVLake/Sea     r-1      Offices, lndust~ VVarehouse            NORTH
L---..1   Batas Kelurahan      ~ SungaVKanaVbanau/Laut   L____j Pef"ka:niOran, irlustrt, Pe.-gudangan
r-----1
L---..1
          Area of Survey                                 ~Green Area                                         A
                                                                                                          SCALE/SKALA



U
          Wtlayah Survat                                 ~ Daerah Hljau
                                                                                                           1:15.000
JliJ&iiiToiiRoad                                                                                                  300m
          '-'alanTol                                                                                    0
                                  Profile of Kalianyar Village


Description:

          Administratively the Kalianyar village is        • Village name: Kalianyar
under the Tambora sub-district, West Jakarta and it
is close to the Grogol fly over project. This village      • Village area: 32 ha
has a very high population density (910 personlha),
the highest in the survey area. Kalianyar is one of        • Village inhabit(lnts: 28,298
the 10 additional villages under KIP-JUDP Ill                No. of RWs: 9
program which are handled by the NGOs. No
infrastructure programs have been implemented and           • Inhabitants of KIP area: 12,803
other programs are still in tile introduction stage.          RWs included in KIP area: RW 02, 03, 05, 08

                                                            • Survey locations: RW 03 and 08
Environmental condition:                                      Area of survey locations: I 0 ha
                                                              Survey locations· area· in percent
           The high population density, and the low           of village atea: 31%
income generation (average of Rp.272,000 monthly)
and the inappropriate housing condition has made            • Survey location inhabitants: 7,290
this area a slum. Most of them do not have private            Survey location inhabitants in percent
toilets, they will use the available MCKs if they need        of village inhabitants: 26%
one. Almost all of the MCKs stand by the sides of the
flood canal and are built on the empty lands owned
by the Dinas Pengairan (City Irrigation Agency) and
PJKA (State Railway Company).

         There are a number of houses used for garment industries. They still dump their waste into the
drainage. This practice has deposited sediment in the drainage as well as unpleasant smell. Due to
unavailability of space some locals build simple "shower rooms" over the drainage by using only wooden planks
for the base. Many of these are even allached to the local food stalls.


Details of KIP-JUDP Ill Implementation:

           The intangible activities cover the establishing of KSM, management and skills training programs and
rolling .funds for small-scale credit program with a total investment of Rp. 2, 000,000. These funds were initially
distributed to sixteen debtors, with maximum amount of Rp.250,000.


Main findings:

          The Local community is capable in handling the need for toilets and septic tanks by building self-funded
MCKs along the sides of the flood canal. This self-motivated development program is functioning well in this
village. All MCKs are provided with septic tanks and are nicely designed. One of the citizens has built a
commercial MCK with ceramic floor and walls. These MCKs are not only used by the local community but the
visitors as wdl.

           The program which immediatl'l\' benefits the local community is the small scale loan program using
 rolling funds. The communilv is e.\pecting that the amount be increased.




                                                         -4-
Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
              Location of Surveyed Area :
     KALIANYAR VILLAGE, WEST JAKARTA




           ~          River/Canal/Lake/Sea    r----1   Offices. Industry, Warehouse           NORTH
           ~ Sungai/Kanat/Danau/Laut          L____J Pei"kan\oran, lndustn. Pergudangan

           ~ ';R"a7'i:"lw:::.a'T!:y==-.-=-c
           ~          Jalan Kereta Api
                                              ~Green
                                              ~
                                                             Area
                                                       Oaerah Hijau                           SCA~KALA
                                                                                               1:15.000
           ~          Residential Area                                                               300m
           ~          Pennukiman                                                          0
                              Profile of Pisangan Baru Village



Description:
                                                         • Village name: Pisangan Baru
        Administratively, this village is under the
Matraman sub-district, East Jakarta. It is located       • Village area: 68 ha
on the west side of Jl.Ahmad Yani (by pass) and
behind the Jatinegara railway station.                   • Village inhabitants: 39,969
                                                           No. of RWs: 15
Environmental condition:                                 • Inhabitants of KIP area: 31,581
                                                           RWs included in KIP area: RW OJ, 02, 03, 04,
          The sanitation condition in this village is      OS, 06, 07, 08, 09, 10, 12, 13, and 14
generally poor. Chicken farms in some areas has
caused an unpleasant smell all over the                  • Survey locations: RW Q7 and 12
neighborhood. Many of the existing drainage are            Ar~a of survey [(}cations.: 1() ha
not functioning. This has caused floods in the rainy       Survey wc(J.tions area iii percent
season. Most of the locals are still using the             of village area: 15%
drainage as sewage and garbage dump. Some
households share a whole as toilet and leave it          • Survey location inhabitants: 6, 772
uncovered causing a very offensive smell.                  Survey locatilm inhabitants in percent
                                                              ojvillage inhilbitants: 17%
Details of KIP-JUDP Ill Implementation:

          The infrastructure development program
has been carried out to renovate twenty two units of houses, footpath construction, and provision of garbaRe
cans. No MCK have been provided under this KIP Jl!DP lii program, eventhough the MoA stated that there
is a plan to built a new MCK. Other programs covering the establishment of nine KSMs, skills training, and tile
small scale loan program.


Main findings:

         The demand to build toilets and septic tanks is high in this village but the major problem is lack oj
sanitation and environment awareness within the community. Like other villages they use drainage as a sewage
and garbage dump. There is one MCK which was built fifty years ago and yet still functioning. It has I I toil('/
units and very useful to the surrounding community. This MCK has been renovated and remodeled about two
years ago by a citizen to produce a useful bio-gas.

         The small scale loan program is the most beneficial as it directly benefits the community. In July 1996
the funds became rolling funds, so that these funds can be used by others who need it. The total investment
launched by the KIP JUDP Ill is Rp./5,000,000 and has been distributed to 36 debtors. These funds are well
managed by the local community.




                                                        -5-
                  Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
                                Location of Surveyed Area :
                    PISANGAN BARU VILLAGE, EAST JAKARTA




                                                                          r--1                          '                     NORTH
       I ~~':~:'u:W~ary     ~              River/Canal/Lake/Sea                   Offices, lndust~ warehouse


::==:::.                    ~              Sungai/Kanai/Danau/Laut        l____j Perkantoran, irlusfr1, Pergudangan
           Area of Survey
           Wilayah Surva1
                            ~Railway
                            ~ ';J;:a';:lan='';;K~e=-=re=ta;:-;A;cp;:r-i
                                                                          ~Green
                                                                          ~
                                                                                        Area
                                                                                  Oaerah Hijau
                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                              SCALE/SKALA
           Toll Road
           .Jalan Tol
                            I T ] Pennuk:iman
                                  Residential Area                                                                    I
                                                                                                                      I   0
                                                                                                                               1:15.000
                                                                                                                                     300m
                           Profile of Manggarai Selatan Village


Description:

         This village is administratively under the          • Village name: Manggarai Selatan
Tebet sub-district, South Jakarta. It divided into two
areas by the Jl. Casablanca and Ciliwung connecting          • Village area: 55 ha
channel. The rate of violence is quite high in this
area, mostly gang fights.                                    • Village inhabitants: 34,633
                                                               No• of .RWs: 10
Environmental condition:                                     • I11.habitants of KIP area: 27, 774
                                                               RWs included in KIP area: RW 01, 02, 03,
           The sanitation condition is poor. Before the
                                                               04, 05, 06, 07, and 09
fence was built to protect Ci/iwung channel, people
built "helicopters" along the banks. Although all of         • Survey locations: RW 02 and 06
these helicopters have been removed. the local                 Area of survey locations: 12 ha
community still dump their waste to the channel using          Survey locations area·in percent
 PVC pipes. Though there is a functioning MCK in               of village area: 22%
RW 06, it is built without a septic tank and the waste
 is still directed to the channel. A case of a septic
                                                             • Survey wcation inhabitants: 7,203
 tank being used by several households or collective           .Su,yey location inhabitants· in percent
 toilets is often found in this area. The people's              ojvillage inhabitants: 21%
 awareness is still low on the importance of good
 sanitation. Many citizens residing along the Ciliwung
 channel dump their garbage into it even though the
proper garbage dumps are available.


Details of KIP-JUDP III Implementation:

          The program implementation in this village is focused on the infrastructure sector such as construction
and maintenance of roads and footpaths, community buildings and facilities, cleaning and fencing of the
Ciliwung channel. Other intangible programs such as establishing KSMs and Yayasan Masela Permai, 1111
institution to.function as small-scale loan program coordinator, and skills training have also been implement I'd.


Main findings:

         The demand of toilets and septic tanks is high in this village but unavailability of land is the common
problem, some citizens are sharing joint septic tanks. Credit loan of Rp.400,000 was made available to build
the required septic tank for each household with private toilet but still use the drainage for their sewage. 71u~
program implementation on infrastructure such as building and maintenance of roads as well as the construction
of temporary garbage dump is very helpful for the community.

          The loan program for small scale enterprise which is administered by the Yayasan Masela Pertnai is
regarded very useful to the local community. As this loan is not a rolling one, plenty of the locals are not able
to use it. The Yayasan Masela Permai has distributed loans totalling Rp.20, 700,000 .




                                                          -6 -
                EvaluatiOn otthe Samtatwn Component ot KIP JUUP Ill
                              Location of Surveyed Area :
              MANGGARAI SELATAN VILLAGE, SOUTH JAKARTA




r--1          Kelurahan Boundary   ~              River/CanaVLake/Sea           r---1    Offices, lndust~ Warehouse              NORTH
1.-.....J     Batas Kelurahan      ~ Sungaa!Kanai/Oanau/Laut                    L____J Pefkantoran, lr"''us(n, Pergudangan
r--1
1.-.....J
              Area of Survey
              tvilayah Survat      c;;:-:;;;;z  .:,R"'a"i;;,lwa~y!==,...,=-c­
                                   c.....___:]' Jalan Kereta Api
                                                                                ~Green Area
                                                                                ~ Daerah Hijau
                                                                                                                                 SCA~LA
                                                                                                                                 1:15.000
llllll!llliiiiiToiiRoad            ~ Reside~tial                     Area                                                              300m
Dllll1illlt   Jalan Tol            ~              Perrnuk1man                                                                0
                                      Profile of Tugu Village


nescription:

          This village is adminislralil'ely under            • Village name: Tugu
Cimanggis sub-dislricl, Bogor Regen(\'. II is located
in the border of Jakarta and Bogor, sandwiches               • Village area: 504 ha
between two intercity roads, Jl. Raya Jakarta -
Bogor and Jl. Raya Depok - Pasarminggu. The two              • Village inhabitants: 59,791
roads is connected by 11. Akses Ul which also serves           No. of RWs: 18
as the main access to this village. Tugu village has
a lot of potentials and it is also urban transition          • Inhabitants of KIP area: 47, 677
 village as reflected in its infrastructure and socio-         RWs irzcluded in KIP area: RW OJ, 02, 03,
economic .developmen/.                                         04, 05, 06, 07, 08, 09, 10, and 11
          The number of temporary residents in this
                                                             • Survey locatiom: RW 06 and 09
village is quite high, they are mostly manual laborers         Area of survey locations: 60 ha
working in various local industries and university
                                                               Survey .locations area in percent
students. Large industrial plants such as ceramic tiles
                                                               of village area: 12%
and textile industries are also operating in this
village. The residential area consists of real estates
                                                             • Survey location inhabitants: 6, 948
and suburbs. 17tere are two universities situated close        Survey location inhabitants in percent
to each other. the Universily of Indonesia and the             of village inhabitants: 12%
University of Gunadarma.


Environmental condition:

         Environmentally this village is in good condition. The majority of its community are already using
private toilets with septic tanks. This condition is possible as it is supported by the community's environmemal
awareness and the availability of space to build such facilities. Many of the households share a septic tank.
particularly the boarding houses.

        A lot of the villagers consume ground water through water wells as it is still regarded consumahft·.
Floods never occur in this area and the garbage management is well maintained.


Details of KIP-JUDP Ill Implementation:

         The program implementation isfocused on the development ofinfrastructure such roads, drainage, clean
water supply (ground water wells/pumps and public taps), garbage carts and dumps, and public facilit\'
buildings. Fi1•e MCKs have been built as planned in 1he MoA. Other programs cover the establishment of M< 'I\'
user groups and skills training for the local community .


Main findings:

          The demand of this sanitation facility is low in this village, as most of the residents own private toileTs
with septic tanks. Two of the MCKs provided under the KIP-JUDP Ill are not used as they are buill in
inappropriate location. One of these MCKs is used to keep logs. The existing MCKs are now only used /J\'
visitors, the manual labors and occasionally by the people who live in rented houses.




                                                          -7 -
         Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
                       Location of Surveyed Area:
                 TUGU VILLAGE, BOGOR REGENCY




-




           I ~=~r:~:~u~~nndary   ~ River/Canal/Lake/Sea               r-----1   Offices, Indus~ \Aia.-ehouae         NORTH
    ::==:::,                     ~ Sungai/Kanal/Danau/Laut            L _ J Pefkantoran. lilustn, Pergudangan
                                                                                                                        A
     iiii      Area of Survey
                                 ~ 'iR"'ai!ilwa~;:;Y!'::-:;=::-.c=­
                                 ~           Jalan Kereta Api
                                                                      ~Green Area
                                                                      ~ Daerah Hijau
                                                                                                                     SCALE/SKALA


    i
    f f?'
               Wilayah Surva•
               Main Road
               Jalan Utama
                                 ~ Rpesidenk_tial Area
                                 ~  ermu 1man                                                                   !0
                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                      1:15.000
                                                                                                                            300m
                              Profile of Jurumudi Baru Village


Description:

         This village is administratively under the        • Village name: Jurumudi Baru
Benda sub-district, Tangerang Municipality, located
to the west of Soekarno-Hatta international airport.       • Village area: 204 ha
This village was officially became part of the
Municipality in 1995, prior to that it was under the       • Village inhabitants: 14,584
Regency administration. Most of its population live in       No. ofRWs: 7
shanties while others live in the real estates which
haye been developing rapidl\' in this art•a.               • Inhabitants of KIP area: 9,335
                                                             RWs included in KIP area: RW OJ, 02, 03,
                                                             04, 05, 06 and 07
Environmental condition:
                                                           • Survey locatit)ns: RW 02 and 04
          The environmental and sanitation conditions        Area of survey locations: 30 ha
in the area of low-income are considered poor. The           Survey locations area in percent
sanitation awareness is low, the people rather use           of village area: 15%
any empty space such as fish ponds or in their yards
for their need, than go to the existing MCKs. A lot of     • Survey location inhabitants: 4,112
households still have no toilets.                            Survey location inhabitants in percent
                                                             of village inhabitants: 28%
         In general this village is susceptible to
floods, even the village office was once inundated
and had to be closed for a few days. Most of the
drainage system is not functioning as £'.~pected. The
 ground water is not consuma!Jle, the n•sidents get their drinking water from water vendors orsupplying trucks
provided daily by the City Water Sen·ice of Tangerang. Poor garbage management is another problem that
 makes this condition even ll'orse.


Details of KIP-JUDP III Implementation:

           The program implementation covers the development ofthe infrastructure such as maintenance ofpublic
facilities, local roads and foot paths, construction of water wells and tanks, and provision of garbage carts.
 Even though the MCKs have also been built as stated in the MoAfor the RWs OJ, 02, 03 and 04, these are still
not used.

        The implememation of other programs cover the training for nine local motivator, establishing MCK ·
water supply user groups and also community self-financing groups (KSP).


Main findings:

          The need for toilets with septic tanks in this village is considerably high. The major constraint is tl1e
low sanitation awareness of tile conl/mtnity. The provision ofaccessible water tanks and community health cellft•r
is beneficial to the local community. 111e training and other intangible programs have yet no significant results.
The clean water user groups show the owstanding pe1:{ormance in managing the water tanks. This activity is
able to generate income of Rp.6,000 per ten days.




                                                         -8-
   Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP Ill
                  Location of Surveyed Area :
JURUMUDI BARU VILLAGE, TANGERANG MUNICIPALITY




             ~      River/Canal/Lake/Sea   r---1    Offices. Indus~ Warehouse            NORTH
             ~ sungailkanai/Oanau/Laut     L _ _ J Pen<antoran. li'\ustr1, Pergudangan

                                           ~GreenArea
                                           ~        Oaerah Hljau
                                                                                            A
                                                                                         SCALE/SKALA
                                                                                          1: 15.000
                                                                                                 300m
                                       Profile of Dadap Village


Description:

        This village is administratively under the            • Village name: Dadap
Kosambi sub-district, Tangerang Regency. It is a
coastal village located in the northeast of the               • Village area: 401 ha
Soekarno-Hatta International airport and on the
coast of Java sea. The population density is                  • Village inhabitants: 9, 747
considerably low (24 persons per hectares).                     No. of RWs: 7
Although there is still an extensive farm land in this
vutage but real estate and housing projects are               • Inhabitants of KIP area: 9, 747
developing quite rapidly.                                       RWs included in KIP area: RW 01, 02, 03,
                                                                04, 05, 06 and 07
Environmental condition:                                      • Survey locations: RW 05 and 07
                                                                Area of survey locations: I 79 ha
          The general condition of the elll'ironment in         Survey locations area ill percent
this village is poor particularly the sanitation is..sue.       of village area: 45%
Most of the households in tile low-income category
do not have toilets nor septic tanks, instead they use        • Survey locatioll illhabitallts: I, 542
open space, beaches or irrigation system.                       Survey locatioll inhabitants ill percent
                                                                of village inhtibitants: 16%
         This village is also susceptible to floods.
'The local roads and footpaths have not been
rehabilitated. Garbage management is poor, the
present garbage dumps cannot facilitate the
increasing volume of garbage. The garbage collection schedule is inconsistent. To get clean consumable wat a.
wells have to be dug to as deep as 100 meters. Due to this situation the community depends highly on the cll'ltn
water supply provided in trucks by the City Water Service of Tangerang.


jOetails of KIP-JUDP Ill lmplemelltation:

         The program implc•lltentation i.1·.{ocused on tlte development of infrastructure such as the developmc•nt
and maintenance of local roads, footpaths, public facilities, the provision of clean water tanks and garbage
carts, construction ofgarbagc• dump.~. 1mter wells aiUI MCKs. Other programs cover establishing the small-sea/('
entrepreneur woups. provision of seed /otaling Rp.20,000,000 which has been distributed to seven existing
mtrepreneur groups, and a number t~{ skills training programs.


Main findings:

         Although all components under the KIP-JUDP Ill program have been implemented, the result is still
unsatisfactory. One of the reasons is that most of the required facilities are not constructed according to tile
design. The low level of awareness of the community on the importance of good sanitation has caused some of
the MCKs either abandoned or left unused as there is no water facility available. The necessary progra111
orientation was carried out behind schedule as the community development coordinator was only assigned ajier
all programs and facilities were completed. Therefore, when these facilities were handed over to the community,
they were not prepared to use and to maintain them.

         Other programs cover the provision of skills training, and small scale loan program for local
 entrepreneur groups. The loan program is highly apprc·ciated by the community as this has helped them l~ft their
 dependency 011 the usurers.



                                                            -9-
      Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
                     Location of Surveyed Area :
          DADAP VILLAGE, TANGERANG REGENCY




I      J ~=~':U!.~u~ h~:ary
                     0        ~ River/Canal/Lake/Sea
                              ~ Sungai/Kanal/banau/Laut
                                                                   ~ Offices.    Industry, 'Warehouse
                                                                   ~ Perl<antoran, lndus{n. Pergudangan
                                                                                                        I       NORTH
~.==:::.Area of Sun~ey
        Wilayah Survat
                              r - 1 :;.R"'a!!:ilwa~y~-=-"7",..,­
                              l____j Jalan Kereta Api
                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                SCALE/SKALA
                                                                                                                 1: 15.000
         Main Road
                              f,;~~·< ~<<.q ~=~:~k~~~:rea                                                   0           300m
                                   Profile of Kalibaru Village

Description:

         The Kalibaru village is situated side by side        • Village name: Kalibarn
with the DKI.Jakarta and administratil·ely it is under
the Bekasi Barat sub-district. Bekasi l?egency. The           • Village area: 282 ha
number of population in this area is has been
increasing considerably jtl.\'t owing to the rapid            • Village inhabitants: 64,685
developmem of housing and real estate projects. The             No. of RWs: 24
expanding industrial sector has also atlracted the job
seekers to come to this area.                                 • RWs included in KIP area: RW 01, 02, 03,
                                                                04, 05 and 06
Environmental condition:                                      • Survey locations: RW OJ and 02
                                                                Area of survey locations: 23 Jza
          The general environmental condition of this           Survey locatiom area in percent
village is poor, therefore the KIP-JUDP Ill program             of village area: 8%
covers the entire area. The awareness of good
sanitation is considerably good although there are a           • Survey location inhabitants: 12,916
number of citizens who still use open space for their            Surv~y location inhabitants in percent
need. The worst condition is .found in the residential           of village inhabitants: 20%
area along the irrigation system. Many of the
households do not have sept it' tanks and dispose their
waste in the irrigation system using PVC pipes.
Households operating as mom rentals are usually
sharing joint septic tanks.

         The garbage collection service has not reached the entire area, the community still burn or bury their
trash in their yards or dispose it in the irrigation system or drainage. The clean water demand is adequately
supplied by the ground water. Most of the households have water wells.


Details of KIP-JUDP /II Implementation:

         The program implementation covers the development of infrastructure such as the maintenance ami
rehabilitation ofpublic facilities, roads, footpaths, irrigation system, the provision of garbage dumps and carts
and the construction of MCKs. The high participation of the community in this program is reflected in the
construction of local roads. They are also capable in maintaining and managing the local roads in satisfactory
manner. The LKMD in this l'illage is .functioning well and is actively participating in the development of the
programs such as the imprm·ement of their living standard as well as in infrastructure development.

       Otha programs COI'I'r skills training and estahlishment of community self-financing groups (KSP) and
MCK user groups.


Main findings:

           The demand for toilets with septic tanks is high in this village. Thirty five families in this area have
 officially sent a request for additional funds to built MCKs as the fund collected from the community is not
 sufficient.

          The program implementation which immedialely benefits the community covers the road and .footpath
 constructions and rehabilitations as it makes this area socio-economically accessible. The progress in the smafl
 scale credit program is reflected in the increasing funds and creditors of the established KSP which has been
 managed well, facilitating credits to over 300 small scale entrepreneurs.

                                                          - 10 -
Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP III
               Location of Surveyed Area :
     KALIBARU VILLAGE, BEKASI REGENCY




           ~ River/Canal/Lake/Sea                     r--1     Offices. lndust~ Warehouse         NORTH
           ~ Sungai/Kanaltbanau/Laut                  L___j Perkanforan, irlusln, Pergudangan\

           c:::--:::: '-;R:'aT'i!!lwa:::'i:y~==--=o
           ~ Jalan Kereta Api
                                                      r----1   Green Area
                                                      L___j Oaerah Hijau
                                                                                             I    SCA~KALA
           C==:J         R.eside~tial Area
                         Pennuk1man                                                          !0
                                                                                                  1:70.000
                                                                                                             1 km
     ANNEX 3
• METHOD OF SURVEY
                              METHOD OF SURVEY

              The survey method used for the KIP JUDP III component evaluation is the
Rapid Participatory Assessment. This method is to be carried out using five different
approaches of data collection. They area as follows:

              •   Interviews with the actors involved in the KIP JUDP III implementation.
              •   Focused group discussions
              •   Household survey/interview with the target communities
              •   Field observations
              •   Informal interviews

               The purpose of this method is use the target communities to help in data
collection and analysis, with an emphasis on communication and listening techniques.


'' Interview with the key actors involved in KIP JUDP Ill

              The respondents include project management level, staff member in the village
}(~vel,
     NGOs, and consultants. Respondents of project management level were selected among
the main actors of the following agencies :

              Jabotabek Urban Development Project Coordination Office (JUPCO).

              Directorate General of Human Settlements, Ministry of Public Works.

              Project Management Unit (PMU) of Jakarta, in this case is Housing
              Department of DKI Jakarta.

              Project Management Unit (PMU) of Botabek in Tangerang.

              Project Implementation Units (PIU) in Bogor, Tangerang, and Bekasi, i.e.,
              IUIDP Secretariat of Level II Regions in Kabupaten as well as Kotamadya.

              Consultants, among others are PT.Astron Polaris-Jakarta, PT. Seecon-Bekasi,
              and PT .Redecon-Tangerang.

              Non-Governmental Organizations and            Coordinator     of   Community
              Development in each region of Jabotabek.

              Staff members of villages where the sanitation facilities are constructed, which
              include the Lurah and Village Head as coordinator of KIP-JUDP III in the
              village level, Head of Development Affairs (Kepala Urusan Pembangunan,
              Kaur Ekbang), Head of the Rukun Warga (RW) or Head of the Rukun
              Tetangga (RT).



                                              1
• Focussed group discussions

               Discussions were carried out in the surveyed location with the community
leaders of each RW, CDC (if available), village officials who were aware and involved in
the KIP implementation, small scale credit program coordinator and the housewives
conducting the survey.

• Household survey

                All data and information were collected by household surveys. As much as 80
questionnaires were distributed in each village. Respondents were selected on the basis of:
Memorandum of Agreement and result of consultations with staff member of the villages and
community development coordinator (if any), two RWs which are provided with the most
sanitation facilities were selected in each village; within the two villages 80 respondents
living near the sanitation facilities were randomly chosen.

                 Survey permit. The government regulation states that it is a mandatory for
any survey conducted in Indonesia to be cleared by the related local government authority.
For this sanitation evaluation study under the KIP JUDP III, the process took three weeks
at the start of the project. The permits were issued by the Dinas Perumahan DKI for Jakarta
area and by the PMU Botabek for Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi areas. The clearance proved
to be very useful to introduce ourselves and the purpose of the survey to the village heads
and officials. The community leaders as well as community members refused to volunteer
information without the survey clearance.

                Utilized Questionnaire. Questionnaires, the survey instrument, were designed
in such that it will be simple to use by the surveyors. For that purpose, the questionnaires
were designed in three formats, i.e., questionnaires for those using private latrines,
questionnaires for those using communal latrines or bathing-washing-toilet facilities (MCK)
and another for those who do not practice safe disposal, such as disposal into open spaces
(gardens), rivers, ponds or storm drains. An average of 80 questionnaires were distributed
in each village, therefore about 800 questionnaires were distributed in the ten selected
villages. The completed and viable questionnaires to be processed is 799. The pretest of the
prepared questionnaire was conducted by the consultant together with the field coordinator.
The pretest was applied to three respondents in the first village which had been selected as
a survey target to gather inputs for questionnaire improvement.

                The Surveyors. The housewives were selected from the community members
to participate as survey operators, particularly those who did not hold formal jobs but were
ac:tively involved in their village community development activities (PKK and Posyandu).
To conduct the survey women have more advantages than men. The selection is based on the
following considerations: housewives have more spare time to conduct the interviews with
the respondents; they have more empathy towards environment conditions as they are familiar
with household environments; as activists ofPKK or Posyandu they have experience in data
collection related to children as well as adult health issues; they are more communicative
with the respondents; they have better sense of responsibility and cooperation in carrying out
their duties. Nevertheless, in some villages when women with these qualifications are
difficult to find, men were recruited.

                                              2
                A total of 44 persons consisting of 41 women and 3 men were recruited to
conduct the survey. The list of surveyors' names.can be seen in the attached table. From the
field experience, the surveyors also demonstrated their positive attitude, seriousness, honesty,
cooperation and responsibility in carrying out their work that, as an example, they are willing
to repeat their survey if necessary.

               Training for surveyors. Surveyor trammg was provided for the 44
participants. The training program consisted of discussion of questionnaire materials, filling
out the answers, interview techniques and field survey simulation. The training was
conducted for each surveyor group of their individual village. To speed up the process, the
training places have been made flexible. Despite of complex bureaucracy in using the village
meeting room, the training program could took place at the houses of head of RW,
community leaders and other community members when available or in a restaurant. Spot-
checking of a sample of the completed questionnaires indicated that the surveyors conducted
the interviews and filled out the questionnaires accurately.

                Checking of the questionnaires. After the 80 questionnaires in each village
were completed, they were reviewed by the consultant. On average, about 30 of the
questionnaires were found to be incomplete. In these cases, the surveyors were instructed to
re-visit the respondents, to complete the interview and questionnaire.

               Training rerun. In some cases when there are too many errors in filling up
the answers, the training program will be rerun. The surveyors will be given two days to
n~-interview the respondents and to correct the errors. In this case, training program had to
be rerun in four of ten surveyed villages.

                Survey period. In average, the time required to complete a survey in one
village was five days, although some villages required up to seven days. The time required
included visit and introduction to the village staff members, discussion of which RW should
be selected, visit to head of the RW, selection and contacting the surveyors, training on how
to conduct the interview and to complete the questionnaire to the surveyors, examination of
the survey results, re-training the surveyors, conducting interviews with the community
leaders and appropriate main actors, and field observations, particularly on the construction
of the KIP-JUDP III sanitation component.

                Survey budget. The survey budget consists of honoraria for surveyors,
supervisor, and meals for the duration· of the survey totalling approximately two million
rupiahs. The amount of honoraria for the surveyors is counted based on the number of
filled-out questionnaires. Two thousand rupiahs is paid for one filled-out questionnaire. Each
supervisor earns twenty thousand rupiahs for supervising two surveyors in conducting 40
interviews and 40 questionnaires. There were two supervisors recruited in each village. The
survey budget does not include the honoraria for field survey coordinator who also acts as
a survey trainer.




                                                3
• Field Observation

               In addition to interviews, data collection was also carried out by site visits to
observe the conditions of the constructed sanitation facilities and socio-economic condition
of the local communities, and also any problems and opinions on the constructed facilities
which were not covered by the questionnaires.

               During the course of the study, constructions of K.IP-JUDP III sanitation
component in the selected villages were completed, except the ones in Kalianyar village,
Jakarta Barat. In this village, the construction has not began yet. Nevertheless, this village
is selected as a sample, for it is one of the additional 10 selected villages where the
management of the facilities involves NGOs. At present, only non-physical activities have
be:en completed, which are to prepare the people of Kalianyar to implement KIP-JUDP III
program.


• Informal interviews

               The informal interviews were carried out during field observation through the
kampung, usually with any members of the community who can be met on the spot. These
typically include: MCK caretakers; housewives who work and reside in the area; vendors
who are also recipients of the KUK program; housewives who are also the head or member
of KSP; LKMD and officials of the village who are actively involved in the community
development program activities.




                                                4
                                                                                             l    No. of
    No.I             Village                  Surveyor Name               Survey locations      Completed
           I                                                                                 I
                                                                                             . QuestionnaireK

     l.        Sungai Bambu
                                       -   Mrs.   Nurilah                     RW   03               20
                                       -   Mrs.   Sarpini                     RW   03               20
                                       -   Mrs.   Indra                       RW   07               20
           !                           -   Mrs.   Anwar M                     RW   07               20
    2.     IOalur
           I                           -
                                       -
                                           Mrs.
                                           Mrs.
                                                  Siti Mariah
                                                  lin
                                                                              RW
                                                                              RW
                                                                                   01
                                                                                   01
                                                                                                    20
                                                                                                    20
                                       -   Mrs.   Karno                       RW   02               20
           I                           -   Mrs.   H. Ikah Azis                RW   02               20
    3.     IKotabambu Utara             - Mrs. Neni Nadia                     RW   01               20
           I                            - Mrs. Masriyah S.                    RW   02               20
                                      i - Mrs. Surva ti                       RW   03               20
                                        - Mrs. Elly                           RW   04               20
    4.         Kalianyar
                                       -   Mrs.   Helma Sutini                RW   03               20
                                       -   Mrs.   Suryati                     RW   03               20
                                       -   Mrs.   Hardiyati                   RW   08                7
                                       -   Mrs.   Ponijem                     RW   08                7
                                       -   Mrs.   Umut                        RW   08                7
                                       -   Mrs.   Surati                      RW   08                7
                                       -   Mrs.   Kumiyati                    RW   08                4
           I                          ,-   Mrs.   Yokaesih                    RW   01:1             10
    ). !Pisangan Baru
           1                     .
           i
                                       -   Mrs.   Siham                       RW   07               20
                                       -   Mrs.   Kosasih                     RW   07               20
                                       -   Mrs.   Chamdi                      RW   12               20
           !                           -   Mrs.   Usman                       RW   12               20
           I               •
    h.     1   Manggara1 Selatan
                                      - Mrs. Budiono                      RW 02 & RW06              28
                                      - Mrs. Taslimah                         RW06                  20
                                      - Mr. M. Satiri                        RW 02                  20
    7. !Tugu
                                      -    Mrs.   Suparmin            I
                                                                      I       RW   09               20
           I
           i
                                      -
                                      -
                                           Mrs.
                                           Mrs.
                                                  Salim
                                                  Nunung Nurhayati J
                                                                              RW
                                                                              RW
                                                                                   09
                                                                                   06
                                                                                                    20
                                                                                                    20
           I                          -    Mrs.   Endang S. Fatmawati 1       RW   06               20
    1:1.   !Jurumudi           Baru                                   I
                                                                      i
           !                          -    Mrs.   Sri Mulyati         I       RW   02               21
                                      -    Mrs.   Yuyun Yunani                RW   02               20
                                      -    Mrs.   Lilis S                     RW   04               20
                                      -    Mrs.   Nurhasanah                  RW   04               20
    Y.     iDadap
                                      -    Mrs. Lelih                         RW   05               21
                                      -    Mrs. To Nio                        RW   05               19
                                      -    Mr. Junaedi                        RW   07               20
                                      -    Mr. Cecep                          RW   07               20

•   10. :
        I
           i
          Kalibaru
                                       -   Mrs.   Abdul Rochim                RW   01

•
           '                                                                                        18
                                      '-   Mrs.   Mutinah                     RW   01               12
                                       -   Mrs.   Yayan                       RW   01               10
                                       -   Mrs.   Budiningsih                 RW   02               20
                                       -   Mrs.   Holidah~                    RW   02               20

                                                                                                    Flr24!surve.Yl'l
         ANNEX 4
• SUMMARY OF PRIMARY DATA
I. GENERAL INFORMATION
A. Characteristic of Households

Table llA-1                Prome of Respondents


                                                                        I
                          Avera~e  No. of                                                                                     -I                Sex

   Vil/a~re
              i
              ;
              !House-l
                                 ' Persons
                                   Living
                                                 J
                                                 I
                                                         No. Heads of
                                                          Household
                                                                                  No. of
                                                                                  Spouses
                                                                                              I     No. of
                                                                                                     Others
                                                                                                                    Average
                                                                                                                      Age              Male          Female
              1
              '
                          hold   ! in the
                                 ' Dwellinl!
                                                 i        Interviewed   J       Interviewed
                                                                                              I   Interviewed
                                                                                                                               I
              I                                                         I                                                                        I
      1
              I           1.5           6.9                   24                    44        I       13             42.7               26       i     55
      2                   1.3           6.4                   48
                                                                        i
                                                                                    30
                                                                                              I
                                                                                                       3             48.9      I        44      I      37
      3                   1.3           5.6                   56        I
                                                                                    22                2               43       I        31             49
      4
      5
              i
              I
                           1.3
                           1.2
                                        7.1
                                         6
                                                              35
                                                              36
                                                                                    46
                                                                                    41
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                     43.2
                                                                                                                     45.1
                                                                                                                                        32
                                                                                                                                        36
                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                                                       45
      6
              '
              I            1.4          5.7                   42                    26                 4             44.3               50             23
      7       I            1.5   !      6.5                   51                    28                 1             39.3               47             33
      8
      9
      10
              I
              I

              I
                           1.1
                            1
                           1.1
                                 l
                                 I
                                        4.8
                                        4.5
                                        5.6
                                                              30
                                                              49
                                                              34
                                                                                    42
                                                                                    25
                                                                                    47
                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                     32.3
                                                                                                                     36.1
                                                                                                                     38.6      I
                                                                                                                                        34
                                                                                                                                        41
                                                                                                                                        31
                                                                                                                                                       46
                                                                                                                                                       39
                                                                                                                                                       50


 Table IA-2 Occupation of Respondents

                                                                                  Private
   Vill~ge                 N          Temporary
                                       Laborers
                                                          Permanent
                                                           Laborers
                                                                                 Company
                                                                                 Emvlovee
                                                                                                     Civil
                                                                                                    Servant
                                                                                                                IEmv/oyed
                                                                                                                   Self                Farmer         Trader   Student   Un-
                                                                                                                                                                         emvlowd
                                                                                                                                                                                       P£•n,,i,,t


      1                    78            6                     1                     6                 5               4                 0              13         1       42              0
      2
      3
                  I
                  I
                  I
                           81
                           79
                                         6
                                         8
                                                               1
                                                               4
                                                                                     15
                                                                                     5
                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                        17
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                           33
                                                                                                                                                                           35
                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                           2
      4                    82            9                     6                     5        I        4               6                 0              19         0       29              3
       5
       6          I        80
                           73
                                         6
                                         10
                                                               3
                                                               4
                                                                            I
                                                                            i
                                                                            I
                                                                                      6
                                                                                     12
                                                                                              I
                                                                                              !
                                                                                              I
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                       3           I
                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                           42
                                                                                                                                                                           19      i
                                                                                                                                                                                   !
                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                           l
       7
       8
                           80
                           80
                                         6
                                         16
                                                               1
                                                              11
                                                                                     21
                                                                                     11
                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                       2           I     0
                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                 !      6
                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                           29
                                                                                                                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                                                                   j
                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                              I
       9
      10
                           80
                           80    I
                                         4
                                          5       I
                                                              31
                                                               5            I        5
                                                                                     3        I
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0           I     7
                                                                                                                                         1       I
                                                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                                                                        23     I   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                           22
                                                                                                                                                                           39      I       tl
                                                                                                                                                                                           .I



 Table IA-3                 Education Level of Respondents



   Vill~rge                N
                                      Not 'I
                                 I·Com_pleted
                                    Pnmarv
                                                          Junior High
                                                            School
                                                                                Senior High
                                                                                  School      I
                                                                                                   Academy
                                                                                                   Graduate
                                                                                                                IUniversity
                                                                                                                 Graduate
                                 I     Schooi        I                      I                 j                 !
       1
       2
                           79
                           81
                                 I
                                 I
                                         22
                                         30       I           23
                                                              25            I
                                                                                     3
                                                                                     0        I
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       1        I      0
                                                                                                                       0
       3                   80            12          i        25                     1                 0
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                       0
       4
       5
                           82
                           79
                                         36
                                         27
                                                              32
                                                              22
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     2        I        0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
       6
       7
                           73
                           80
                                         29
                                         17
                                                              8
                                                              17
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     4
                                                                                              I        1
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
       8
       9
                           80
                           80
                                         11
                                         41
                                                              29
                                                              27
                                                                            I        0
                                                                                     0
                                                                                              I        0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
      10                   81            31          !        26            !        0
                                                                                              I        0               0


 Table IA-4 Length of Stay                                in the Present Dwelling

  Ke/urahan \
                  i
                            N     1 Less than
                                  I     1 vear
                                                     I       1-2
                                                             Years          !
                                                                                   3-6
                                                                                   Ye.ars     I      3-10
                                                                                                     Ye.ars     I
                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                      Years
                  I               I                                         !                 '                 !
                                                                            i
       1                    79            2                    5                     10       '        6               56
       2.                   81            0                    1                     10                2               68
       ,,                   79            4                    6                     11       :        4               54
       -'
       4i                   80            0                    1                      8                7               64
       ..
       ·'                   80             3                   8                      9                7               53
       6                    73            0                    3                      4                 4              62
       7                    80            4                    3                     17                16              40
       8                    80            16                   17                    12                 7              28
       9
       10
                      I
                      I
                            80
                            81
                                           4
                                           6
                                                               9
                                                               11
                                                                                     16
                                                                                     12       !        19
                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                       32
                                                                                                                       43
                                                                             Table IA-6    Number of Households claiming house ownership vs
Table lA- 5 Status of Dwelling                                                             Length of Residence

                                             Free of                                                   Less than            1-2      3-6       7-10     More than
                                                       I
  VI1la_!!e      N        Owned     Rented    Rent                             Villaee      N           1 vear              Years    Years     Years    10 Years

       1        80          58        12       10                                1          57            1                  2         6         2         47
      2         81          77         4       0                                 2          77            0                  1         7         2         67
      3         79          45        32       2                                 3          75            0                  1         3         3         38
      4         82          77         4        1                                4          54            0                  0         6         6         63
      5         81          54        23       4                                 5          54            0                  0         5         5         44
      6         72          62        10       0                                 6          62            0                  1         3        4          54
      7         80          63        17       0                                 7          63            1                  0         11       12         39
      8         80          43        37       0                                 8          43            2                  6         3         6         26
      9         80          73        3        4                                 9          73            2                  7         14       19         31
-~~
      10        81          55      . 23       3                                 10         55            2                  5         4        5          38


Table IA-7 Priority of Household Needs

                                              Public       Small             Funds for
  Village       N     '
                          Private   Shared    Toilet       Scale              Children    Access       Footpath           Dminage    Water    Primary    Health
                          Toilet    Toilet   {MCK)         Credit            Education    Road                            Channels   Supply   School     Clinic

      1          79         31        7         3           33                   4          0             0                  1         0        0          0
      2          80         27        1         1           35                  13          1             0                  0         1        1          0
      3          80         31        5         4           24                  14          0             1                  1         0        0          0
      4          82         23        0         8           22                  17          0             0                  2       . 9        1          0
      5          79         20        5         6           34                  11          2             0                  0         0        1          0
      6          71          8        0        0            42                  19          0             0                  0         2        0          0
      7          79         55        2        2            11                  7           0             0                  1         1        0          0
      8          80          7        5        3            29                  14          1             1                  7        10        0          3
      9          80         12        18       5            17                  14          0             0                  2         8        0          4
                                                                 ~   ~
                                                                                                                  ~
      10- - ~--- 81         35        4        0            39           -   -- Q -         0      -
                                                                                                          0           -
                                                                                                                             2         1        0          0
B. Response to KIP
Table IB'-1 Source of Information about KIP


  Village
             !
                     N
                          1         1
                                          1
                                            lntonnal 1 Commumty !            !
                            Village jRTmw\ Community I Groups Consultant NGOs News-     1V I
                                                                                                                 I              I                                     Never
             \
             l
                          1
                          I Head ,        I Leaders     (KSM)           .      f)aper                                                                             I know
     1               80   ! 9          8        2      I  5                0
                                                                             I
                                                                                 25     29                                                                            1
     2               81        11     40  I     17        0
                                                                  1
                                                                  0        0     11      2                                      I                   I             I 0
     3               80         5     33         1
                                                       ;

                                                           5      1        1 I 22 I 12                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                  I     0
     4               82        27      28 I      5   I
                                                     ;     3      0        0      17 i 2                                                                          I     0
     5               79         5      4        13         3      0        4      19     31                                                                             0
     6       i       73        29 ! 1           5    :
                                                     I     1      0        4     10   I  22                                     I                                       1
     7       I       66         4      33        7
                                                     I
                                                     I     0      4        0      7      4
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                        7
     8               74        12      20        3         0      0        0     27      10                                                                             2
     9               79        15      20        1         0      0        0     30      4                                                                              9
    10       I       52         0       1       41         1      0        0    I 0       2                                                                             7

Table IB-2           Opinion about KIP
                                                                                               I
                          ! Has a Jot of                           There are some                       Has a little                            No
             l
                                                                                               I


  Villai!e           N    I   Benefits                 I   i
                                                                     Benefits                  I
                                                                                               '
                                                                                                       Benefit Onlv             I           Benefit at all
                          '                                                                                                     i
     1           l   34   '
                          I             18                                 9                   i
                                                                                               i                1               I

                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                    6
     2               69                 53                                 11                                   4                                   1
     3               45                 37                                  7                  I                1                                   0
     4               63                 47                                 14                                   2                                   0
     5               42                 31                                  1                  I                5               I   I               5
     6               45                 37                                  8                  i                0                                   0
     7               48                 13                                 26                  I
                                                                                                                8               I                   1
     8               38                 28                 i                6                  I
                                                                                                                3               I                   1
     9               36                 14                                 19                                   1               I                   2
    10               43                  5                 I               37                  I                0                   I               1

Table IB-3           Type of Benefits of KIP

                          IIncreasement of I                       Increasement of                     lncreasement of                      Increasement of
  Villal!e
                 !
                     N    I         Income                 i           Health                  I        Comfortabilitv                         Securitv
                          i                                                                    !
     1               28                  6                                  4                                   14                  I              4
     2               68                  1                                 18                                   29                  I             20
     3
     4
                     45
                     64
                                        11
                                         3
                                                                           28
                                                                           14
                                                                                               I
                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                24
                                                                                                                                    I              5
                                                                                                                                                  23
     5
     6
                     35
                     44
                                         1
                                         4
                                                                           22
                                                                           38                  I                 0
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                                                    2
     7               43                  1                                 15                  I
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                25                                  2
     8               36                  0                                 11                                    2                                23
     9               34                 13                                  1                  I                15                                 5
     10              42                  1                 !                4                      i            37                                  0


C. Sanitation Condition of Respondents
Table IC-1 Source of Drinking Water


  Villai!e       I   N
                              I
                              iPDAM
                                             IPublic
                                               Tap
                                                               )
                                                               1
                                                                    Own
                                                                    Well
                                                                                j Neighbours
                                                                                1   Well
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   ,
                                                                                                       Public
                                                                                                        Well
                                                                                                                          Water
                                                                                                                         Vendors
                                                                                                                                ;I          River
                                                                                                                                                          Rain
                                                                                                                                                        I Water
                                                                                                                                        I
                 i            ii                                                                   i                                    I
     1             80              63            15                  0               0                   0                 2                  0            0
                                             I                                  j                  i
                 i            I
                              I                                                                                                         j
     2             81              60            21                  0               0             ;     0                 0                  0            0
                 ' 79         !
     3                        ;    43        I   27                  1               3             i     4                  1                 0            0
                 i                           !
     4             79         ~    20            15                  2                1                  0                 41                 0            0
                 :                                                                   6                                                        0
     5             80         I    20            11                  18                                  14                11                              0
                              :
     6             73         I     8             0                  60              3                    2                0                  0            0
     7             77         !                   0                  58              14                   5                0                  0            0
                                    0
     8           i 80               0             0                  20              32                   5          I     23                 0            0
     9
     10
                 : 80
                   81
                                    0
                                    0
                                                  0
                                                  0
                                                                     3
                                                                     73
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                           77
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
Table IC-2 Source of Water for Bathing and Washing

             I                                           Public                  Own      INeighbou1                                          I               Rain
  Villaf!e   I       N    I PDAM                          Tao
                                                                     i
                                                                                 Well
                                                                                          I
                                                                                             Well
                                                                                                                      Public
                                                                                                                       Well
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                     Water
                                                                                                                                    Vendors       River       Water

     1               80   I             61                 17        I            0
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          I            0                0       !        2          0          0
     2       \       81
                          l             59                 11
                                                                     I
                                                                     !            4
                                                                                          I

                                                                                          i            1      I
                                                                                                              i
                                                                                                                        6       !        0    I     0          0
     3       I
             I       80   I             39                 27        \             6      i            4      I          4      I        0          0          0
     4               75                 18                  2                     31                   9                6       I        9          0          0
     5               80                 18                 12                     20                   11     I         19               0          0           0

     7
      6              73
                     77                 0
                                         7                  0
                                                            0
                                                                                  62
                                                                                  58
                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                         5      I        0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
     8               77                 0                   0                     38                   28                1               0          0           0
      9              80                 0                   0                     72                    1                6               1          0           0
     10              81                 0                   0        I            74      !             7                0               0          0           0


Table IC-3 Source of Water for Toilets

                          i                      !       Public          j       Own      1 Neighbou~                 Public    i       Water I           ;   Rain
  Village    I       N    I PDAM                 !        Ta]J_                  Well     !           Well    I Well            I Vendors i       River   i   Water

     1               80                 61                  17                    0                    0                 0               2          0           0
     2               66                 46                  11                     5                   2                 2               0          0           0
     3               80                 38                  27                     7                   4                 4               0          0     I     0
                                                                                              '
     4               70                 16                   1                    25                   8                 15              6    I     0     I     0
     5               79                 16                  19                    14                   13                17              0    I
                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                0
     6               73                  7                   0                    54                   2                 10              0    I     0           0
     7               77                  0                  0            I
                                                                         I
                                                                                  58                   14                 5              0          0           0
     8       I       77                  0                  0                     20                   34                22              0          1           0
      9      I       80                  0                  0                     67      I             1         I       6     I        0    I     5           0
     10          i   81   I              0                  0            I        74          I         7         I       0     I        0    I     0           0


Table IC-4 Households Bathing Facility

                                       Inside Neighbour's
  Village            N                Dwelling Dwelling                          MCK          I       River

      1              81                 88                  2                     11                   0
      2              81                 77                  2                      1                   1
      3              80                 68                  2                     10                   0
      4              82                 75                  1                      6                   0
      5          i   81                 51                  3                     27                   0
      6          i
                 I
                     73       I
                              I
                                        70       I
                                                 I          2                      1                   0
      7          I   80       I         72                  3            I         5                   0
      8          I   79       i         38       I
                                                 I
                                                            17           I        24          I
                                                                                              i
                                                                                                       0
      9          I   80                 73       I           2                     5                   0
     10          I   81       I         76       I          5            I         0
                                                                                              I
                                                                                              I
                                                                                                  I    0


Table IC-5 Neighbourhoods Situation when Flooded


   Village       I   N
                                      Drainage
                                        flow
                                                 I         Solid
                                                           waste
                                                                             I Septic tank I Human .I Toilet I MCK i
                                                                             I    flow        waste   can not ! can not I                         Never
                 I                      over             spreading           1    over            ! spreading 1 be used : be used , flooded
                                                                             '                                    '
      1              77                  57                 18               I     2                    0                0                0         0
      2              39                  38                  1                     0                    0                0                0         0
      3              73                  71                  2                     0                    0                0                1         0
      4              72                  71                  1                     0                    0                0                0         0
      5              28                  27                  1                     0                    0                 0               0         0
      6              41                  35                  6                     0                    0                 0               0         0
      7              10                   3                                                       I                       0                          0
                 I
                                                             0                        1                 0                                 6
      8              42           I      32          i      10                        0                 0                 0         !     0          0
      9               1                   1          I       0                        0                 0                   0             0          0
      10             21           I      21          I
                                                             0               !        0                 0         i         0             0          0
II. PRIVATE                              TOILETS
 A. Physical Condition of the Private Toilets

 Table IIA-1          Prome of the Available Septic Tanks

               Average ageJ
              Iof                                     '                                          i                       I
                                                                  Exhaust e_i~e                                                                           Problems
   Village        the privat
              1 toilets   (ye.ars)   I
                                              N
                                                      '

                                                      I           available
                                                                               I   not     !
                                                                               I available I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                  bad
                                                                                                                                 smell     i
                                                                                                                                                     full
                                                                                                                                                   rapidly
                                                                                                                                                             Iinfiltrate \   no
                                                                                                                                                              the wells , problem
                                                                                                                                           I                 i
     1
              !
              !       9.6                     15                     10                  5       iI             15                 3                 2       I          0        i   10
     2        j       16.7                    15                     12                  3       I
                                                                                                                14                 0                 2       I          0            12
     3
     4
              I       14.9
                      11.8
                                              17
                                              41
                                                                     12
                                                                     36
                                                                                         5
                                                                                         5
                                                                                                 i              17
                                                                                                                41
                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                           I         1                  0            14

     5
              !       14.6                    13                     12                  1                      13                 0       I
                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                     0       I          0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                     31
                                                                                                                                                                                     13
     6
              ;
                      12.1                    35      i              34                  1       I              34                 1       i         4       i          0            29
     7                 7.7                    35      I              34        I         1       I              34                 1
                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                           I         0
                                                                                                                                                             I          0            34
                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                           I
     8                 3.2                    11
                                                      i
                                                      I              10                  1       I              11                 0       i         2
                                                                                                                                                             I          0             9
     9
     10
                       2.4
                       6.1                    5
                                               8
                                                      I


                                                      I               7
                                                                      4
                                                                               I         1
                                                                                         1
                                                                                                 !               9
                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                           iI        0
                                                                                                                                                     0       I
                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                        0        I    8
                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                               '

 Table IIA-2          Distance Between Septic Tank and Water Sources

                                          Less than                 1-5                6-10                    > 10
   ViJlal!e   I           N                1 meter    I            meters              meters                 meters
              !                                       i
                                                                               I                     I
     1        i         7            I         1      !               3        I         0        !
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                 3
     2                 15            '        0                        1       i         6           '          14
     3        '
              I        15            i        0
                                                      !                1                 2           i          12
                                                      I                        i
     4                 41                     0                       10       :          9          i          22
     5                 15                     0                        8                 6           i           1
     6                 35                     0                       18                 11                      6
     7                 35                     0                       2                  22                     11
     8                 11                     0                       5                   5                      0
     9
     10
                        8
                        8
                                              0
                                              0
                                                      i   I
                                                                      2
                                                                       1       I
                                                                                          5
                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 1
                  '


 Table IIA-3          Discarded Waste Water from the Private Toilets


   Vi/lage
              I           N
                                             to the        to the
                                         private septic shared septic
                                                                               I topit
                                                                                    the
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                               to the
                                                                                                              drainage
                                                                                                                                 to the
                                                                                                                                 House-
                                                                                                                                           I       to the
                                                                                                                                                    river
                                                                                                                                                                       to the
                                                                                                                                                                     fishponds
                  I                           tanks         tanks                      latrine       I        channel             yards
                                                          I                    i
      1       I           20                  15                      1                  0
                                                                                                     i           0                 0                  4      I          0
      2                   41                  15                      0                  0                      25                 0                  1                 0
      3                   54                  16                      1                  0                      37                 0                  0                 0
      4                   41                  41                      0                  0                       0                 0                  0                 0
      5                   34                  13                      0                  3                      16                 0                  2                 0
      6                   49                  34                       1                 0                       0                  1                 13                 0
                  I
      7                   36                  33                      1                   I                      0                  0          I       I                 0
      8                   14                  11                      0        I          0                      0                  0                 2                  1
      9
      10          I
                          10
                          11
                                               9
                                               6
                                                          I
                                                          I
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                               I
                                                                               i
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0           I
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                             !
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0


 B. Maintenance of Private Toilets

 Table IIB-1          Organization/institution Contacted for Emptying of Septic Tanks

                  i                                       \        LKMD!           i   User '                                I                               !
                  i                                       ;                        1
                                                                                     Group ofi Private                       i Cle.anliness1                     i
                                                                                                                                                                     Selfhelp
   Village        i       N                RT/RW          !        Village                                                                           PU
                  :                                                officials       : Sanitatiom company                      1    office            office
                  '                                                                                                                                              i
      1                   14                   0                       0           i      0                      0           !      6                  1         '       7
      2                   14                   0          i            0           l      0               '      0                  6                 5                  3
                  ;
                                                          i
                                                                                                          !
      3                   15                   0                       0                  0               I
                                                                                                          I      1                  2                 12                 0
      4                   40                   0          !            0           I      0               I      0                  18                22                 0
      5                   12                   0          'i           0           l      0               I
                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                 0                  10                2                  0
      6                   35                   0                       0                  0                      1                  0          '      15                 1
       7                  31                   0                       0                  0                      8                  16                0                  7
      8                   11                   0                       0                  0                      0           '       1                3                  6
      9                    9                   0                       0                  0                      0           !      0                 3                  6
      10                   5                   0              !        0                  0                      1                   2                 0                 2
Table IIB-2 Emptying of Septic Tank (executing agency and fee)

             j Average of    I                I    Private I Qeanlinessi Public Work
  Villa!!e       fee(Rp.)_          N             Com_pany I Office I Office

     1            60.000            7                0           6               1
     2            37.857            6                0           2               4
     3            40.625            11               1           2               8
     4            49.375            23               0           4               19
     5            46.250            9                0           7               2
     6            57.333            11               0           0               11
     7            50.000             1               1           0               0
     8
     9
                  55.000
                     -       I       1
                                     2
                                                     0
                                                     1
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                                 1
                                                                                 1
     10           100.000    I       1               1           0      I        0




C. Interest of the Septik Tank Provision

Ta.ble IIC-1 Respondent's Interest to Make Septic Tank

                                                                 Not interested and its reason
  Village            N           Interested   !      N      I    too       lack of     never know no problem
                                              I             I e;wensive      land     ofseptic tank encountered
                             i
     1
     2
                     7
                     26      I
                                     3
                                     2
                                                     4
                                                     24
                                                            I     1
                                                                  0      I
                                                                                  1
                                                                                 20
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          1
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        3
                                                            I
                                                                         I
     3
     4
                     38
                     0       I      22
                                     0
                                                     16
                                                     0
                                                                  2
                                                                  0
                                                                                 9
                                                                                 0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                  '     6
                                                                                                        0
     5               23             13               10           4      I
                                                                         i        2       0             2
      6              14              6                8           1               7       0             0
      7               1              0                1     I     0               0       0             1
      8               4              3                1           0               0       0             0
     9                2              1                1           0               0       0             0
     10              5               1                4           4               0       0             0


Table IIC-2 Respondent's Interest for Credit (if any) to Make Septic Tank

                             I      Not     I               i Average   affordability
  Village
             I       N           Interested . Interested    I      for monthly
             I               i                I                  installment(Rp.l

      1               7               3               4                      -
      2              26              23               3               10.000
      3              32              10               22               6.075
      4               1              1                0                      -
      5              19              7        I
                                              l       12              31.800
      6              12              5        '
                                              !        7               9.285
                                                             '
      7               3              2                 1               2.000
      8
      9
                      4
                      2
                                     1
                                     2
                                              I        3
                                                       0
                                                                      10.000
                                                                             -
     10               2      I       2        I        0     I               -
Ill.           PUIBLIG !:SA I HINl:i, WA:::iHINl:i ANU I UILt:: I\::> \Mvl\.}


A. Condition of MCK
Table IIIA-1 Characteristic of Existing MCK

  Villago       !          Awlllll" No. of
                           Households "'
                          tb< user of MCK
                                                      \AWJ31:1#No.
                                                      ! of toikiJ iJJ I
                                                      11      ~mrrofMC~               N
                                                                                       HUDJBD Wano Disposal of MCK

                                                                                           I
                                                                                            !to s•pric i to rbe
                                                                                               rank    I riwr
                                                                                                                          ; Availabilitt· of exhaust pipe
                                                                                                                   to tbe 1
                                                                                                                :fishpond i  N
                                                                                                                                 !  !              Nor
                                                                                                                                    IA•ailable I Available
                                                                                                                                                                           i

       1
       z
                I
                !
                                   -
                                   11.3
                                                      !
                                                      :
                                                                  7
                                                                  s
                                                                          i
                                                                          I
                                                                                      14
                                                                                      24
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            I
                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                i       0
                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                    14
                                                                                                                                                    ,       \     13
                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                           !          1
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
       3        !                  47.&
                                   44.8
                                                      I           15
                                                                  10
                                                                          l
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                                      24
                                                                                      41
                                                                                            I           24
                                                                                                        3&
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                 I       0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                    24
                                                                                                                                                    36
                                                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                                                                                  24
                                                                                                                                                                  36
                                                                                                                                                                           i          0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
       4
       s                           28.3                           7                   25                19              s                0          1&            13                  5
       6
       7
                                   -
                                   10
                                                                   6
                                                                  22
                                                                                      14
                                                                                      8                 6
                                                                                                         0              14
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
       8                           7.1                            2                   19                5               9                s          s              3                  2
       9                           10                              2                  20                20              0                0          19            14                  5
       10                          3.9                !           2       !           &     I           8               0                0          8              6       I          2




B. Comments to the MCK
Table 1116-1 User Fee                                                                                                                            Table 1116-2           User Satisfaction of MCK
                I
  Vililp<
                I
                        Avemp< •ZJ"'nse< lex
                           usi"'l MCK
                         Rn I dav I bouseboldl                    N
                                                                              Comment of RespOndeDIJ
                                                                                 too
                                                                              eroetJsive Sufficient  Cb<aJL     i
                                                                                                                                                  Vililp<          N               Sarisfied     Nor
                                                                                                                                                                                               sarisfied       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Reason for UDsat:isfacrion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               roo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e;rpr:nsivt:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /.;Jd of Out o{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         'l'ater     order
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T··pf)(_,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rondiz~e•JI
                                                                                                                !                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                              '
       1                       536
                               453
                                                      I
                                                                  9
                                                                  30
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       8
                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                     I             14
                                                                                                                                                                   30
                                                                                                                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0            0               0          0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I       "
                                                                                            I
       2                                                                                                                                            2                                             16           16              0          0          16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I       "
                I
       3                       1.078                              24                   I                19              4                                          23                 23                                       0                     0
                                                                                      15
                                                                                                                                                    3                                             0            0                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "
       4
       5
       6
                               236
                               275
                               152
                                                                  41
                                                                  19
                                                                  16
                                                                                       4
                                                                                       3
                                                                                                        23
                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                                        3

                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                     6      I
                                                                                                                                                                   41
                                                                                                                                                                   zs
                                                                                                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                                                                           I          37
                                                                                                                                                                                      21
                                                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                                                                  4

                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      II


                                                                                                                                                                                       s                                                                             "
       7
       8
                               92.~
                               200
                                                                   3
                                                                   3
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                   19                 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               s       I       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~
       9
       10
                               -
                               475
                                                                   6
                                                                   7
                                                                                       I
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                    10      I      20
                                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I       I       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I




C. Management of MCK
                                                                                                                                                                Table IIIC-2 Source of Funds for
Table IIIC-1 Organization I person in charge                                                                                                                                 Maintenance of MCK


   Vt1ilp<      !        N
                               I
                                          RT!RW                 LKMD                  NGO
                                                                                                     one of tb< Appointed     No
                                                                                                     uut" !lf'OUP penon in penon iD
                                                                                                      member       cban:t!  cb~~~re
                                                                                                                                                                 Vi/lap<   I   !
                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                               u..rfee
                                                                                                                                                                                               roUecred Community
                                                                                                                                                                                               iJJ • box rouazbun·oa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Appoi11ted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ot~dDizatioD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IIJI'r>Cn

        I                14                 14                     0                   0                 0              0                0                          I                 14          14           0               0
       2                 23                 2                      2                   0                 15             0                0                         2                  30          30       I   0               0
       3
       4
       5
                         24
                         36
                         23
                                            18
                                            10
                                            0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       I
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                        24
                                                                                                                        15
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                   $
                                                                                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                                                                      39
                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2&
                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
       6                 17                  I                     0                   0                 I              IS               0                          6                  16         16           0                0
       7                 5     l             I                     I                   0                 0               0                3                         7                  6          2            3                I


                               I
       8                 12                  0                     0                   0                 6               0                6                         8                  9          0            9                0
       9                 17                  0                     0                   0                 0               0               17                        9                   0          0            0                0
       10           I    6                   3                     0                   0                 0               2               I                         10                  6           2           4                0




 D. Interest of Making                                                    Private Toilet
Table IIID-1 MCK User's Interest to Make Private Toilet
                                                              Affordabiliry                     Reason fex nor int«ested
   Vi/lago               N
                               I         lnr.resred              to pa,v
                                                              RnimODtbl                N
                                                                                                 eJCisriJJg lac.
                                                                                                  is •110ueb
                                                                                                                   DO
                                                                                                                 funds
                                                                                                                         lad of
                                                                                                                          land


        2
           I             13
                         30    I             6
                                             21
                                                                  1.900
                                                                 4.600
                                                                                       7
                                                                                       9
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                             8
        J
        4
                         24
                         41
                               !
                               I
                                             4
                                             27           I      6.166
                                                                  5.840           !
                                                                                  !
                                                                                       20
                                                                                       14
                                                                                                \
                                                                                                ''
                                                                                                         IS
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                             9
        ~

        .
        6
                         25
                         p     I             10
                                             9
                                                          !
                                                          I
                                                                 5.666
                                                                 6.777
                                                                                  I    15
                                                                                        8
                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0               .   8


        8
                         8
                         18
                                             0
                                             6            I       833
                                                                      -                 8
                                                                                       12
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                             J

        9                20                  ~                    800                  15                8                  4            0
       10                 9                  4                    4500                 5                 3                   I       I
                                                                                                                                         I
IV. HUMAN WASTE DISPPOSAL IN THE OPEN SPACE

A. Open Space as the Facility Used fa' Human Waste Disposal


Table IVA-1 Human Waste Dispoa1 Locatioas                                                                                          Table IVA-2 The Used ami Reuou o[ SeiCCled Location

                                Em pry    ~ Drainage j At the side          !                                                                                      i No   pzivare\   ~\tore            Fr~             U.saee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ---"F'"'---·--
  Vdlaee    i     .'1   i       land          ' c:haJJJJel · of railwav             Rit.oer               Fishpond                                                 '    10iler   : c..unfcxr- 1         of                              i      lin-
                        \                                                                                                                                              available '   able     '       c:hars.:e     .'1       Slwed     i    shanxi
    I             -17             0           ;    -1               I                 41                     I
    2       i     10              0               10     I          0                  0                     0                           I               -13              18           5                 20                       I                I
    3       I     0               0               0      :          0                 0                      0                           2               8                6            0                 2          10            7               J
    -1      f
                   0              0               0                 0                  0                     0                           3                0               0            0                 0          0             0               0
    5             20              0                0                0                 20                     0                           4                0               0            0                 0          0             0               0
                                                         I
    6       i     0               0                0                0                  0                     0                           5               20               18           0                 2          20            17               J
                                                         !
    7       '      3              0           i    0                0                  0                     3                          6                 0               0            0                 0          0             0               0
    8             -17   I         0           i   8      !          0                 11                     28                         7                 3                3           0                 0           1             I              0
    9             50              37               0                0                 9                       3                         8                35               33           0                            47            45
    !0            39
                        !
                                   I          ;
                                                   0
                                                         l          0                 38                     0                          9                49               45           -1                0          50            -16              4
                                                                                                                                        10               39               39           0                 0          39            39               IJ




B. Prefer•!nce to the Use of MCK


Table IYB·-1 Rea&aR Car not Uug MCK

                        !Av.~ilable i             No      •                         Reasons far not Using MCK
  Vi/lap:   !     .v                          i MCK !                             Too man.v I              Poor        ;
                                                                                                                                        Too             More
            :           J  MCK                                                                                         I           !
                        ! near bv             I available I         N                users            : c."'tldirion   I   Dirtv        far          f:anformble

     I            34              5           I    29     i         16                 7                      9             0            0       !        0
    :             10              10               0                 9                 0                      0             0            7                2
     3            0               0                0                 0                 0                      0             0            0                0
                                                                                                                                                 '
    4             0     :         0                0                 0                 0                      0             0            0                0
    5             20              0                :w                -                 0                      0             0      :     0                0
    6             0               0                0                0                  0                      0             0            0                0
    7              3              3
                                              i
                                                   0                3                  0                      0             0             3
                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                 i

            I                                 I                                                       '
                                                                                                      !                                          '
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                          0
    8
    9
    10      I
                  47
                  50
                  39
                                  10
                                  47
                                  3
                                              !
                                                   37
                                                    3
                                                   36
                                                          I
                                                                    10
                                                                    47
                                                                    3
                                                                                       4
                                                                                      22
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                            0      I
                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                         13
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          I




C. lnteres:t of the Provision of Sanitation Facility

Table IVC·-1 Reapoa.dt:nt'& lnweat to the Type of Sanitatioa Facility                                                              Table IVC-2 lntereat of the Open Space Use:n to Mate Priwte Toilet

                            i  Private toiltt                    Interest to Make SaJJitation Facilitv                                           : Average nffotdability              Interest to cake Joan
  Vilblp:   l     N
                            !
                            i
                            ;
                              completed "itb
                               a ser>ri~ mnk
                                                             I

                                                             I    Shared
                                                                   toilet   I   MCK
                                                                                                Nat   I
                                                                                             interested
                                                                                                                                       Vi/lap:   : for rhe c."'mtrut..•tioo of i
                                                                                                                                                      a rniva te toilet 1Ro.           .v
                                                                                                                                                                                                  i                 Not
                                                                                                                                                                                                  i Interested I interested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AvemJ!e uOi:ttLiuhilin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to fJI.Y in.~wllmr..·IJI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    oer mom!J Up.J

                            '                                                                         I
     l
     :
                  37
                   10
                                         23
                                          7
                                                                     4
                                                                     I
                                                                            !          0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                              '                                            193.937                     !7                20                                 5.HXl
     ~             0                      0                  !       0      I          0                      0                                                                        7                  3          4                      3.666
                                                             I
     4             0                      0                          0                 0                      0                                                                        0                  0          0
     5
     6
                   19
                   0
                                          6
                                          0                  I
                                                             I
                                                                     2
                                                                     0      I          3
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4                      2-(XX)
     7              3                     3                          0                 0                      0                           6                                            0                  0          0
    8              47                    18                  I       7                 12                     10                          7                                            0                  0           0                     2.00:)
    9             50                     19                  I       10     1          3                      18                          8                100.000                     19                 16          3                     <),()(>!\
    10            39                     32                  i          .              0                      5                           9                 1.000                      19                 13         6                      l-171•
                                                                                                                                          10                5.413                      32                 29         3                      ~.413




Table IVC--3 Intercat of the Open Space Uoc:.-s for MCK Provision

                A""rap: No. of                    A""rnge No. of            lAverage alfordabi/ity t<x-                     Avernge nffatdability ro pa_v               A"'ra!"' affordability to pa_v
                households as the                 toilet$ in eK-rv              , the mainrenanc:e otsbared                 in~raJJmentol shared septic:                    fee for using MCK
                 user at' MCK                      Unit of MCK.                 'sepric mnk (Rp.imontb)                         mnk (Rp.imontb)                               (Rp.t each time)



                                                                                              5.000                                    5.000



     6
                                                                                              :.ooo                                    :.ooo
                                                                                              5.000                                    :.500                                           iS1
     9
    !0
        ANNEX 5
 • LIST OF INDIVIDUALS AND
ORGANIZATIONS INTERVIEWED
     DURING ASSIGNMENT
Community
Sugiyanto- Chief of RW 03 Sungai Bambu Village, North Jakarta
Sutarso Ady- Chief of RW 07 Sungai Bambu Village, North Jakarta
Anam S. -Chief of RW 06 Manggarai Selatan Village, South Jakarta
M. Basir- Chief of RW 03 Kalianyar Village, West Jakarta
Pangat - Chief of RW 08 Kalianyar Village, West Jakarta
M. Muslih- Chief of RW 02 Jurumudi Baru Village, Tangerang
Kusraeni- Member of community Jurumudi Baru Village, Tangerang
Sukmawijaya - Chief of RW 05 Dadap Village, Tangerang
Masykur Machbub - Chief of RW 06 Tugu Village, Bogor
H. Edi Husein - Chief of RW 09 Tugu Village, Bogor
Neneng Sumiati - Member of community Kalibaru Village, Bekasi
H. Sakim - Coordinator of Rawabebek Market, Kalibaru, Bekasi
H. Sindar- Owner of Rawabebek Market, Kalibaru, Bekasi
Syaefudin - Trader of Rawabebek Market, Kalibaru, Bekasi


NGOs

Ir. Hardjono Purwandono- Yayasan Bina Usaha Lingkungan
M. Yusuf Baeng- Chief of Yayasan Bunga Melati, West Jakarta
Otong- CDC of Kalianyar Village, West Jakarta
Drs. AA. Gustaman - CDC of Kota Bambu Utara Village, West Jakarta
Arif Nasution- CDC of Kalibaru Village, Bekasi
Drs. Tatang Muchsin - CDC of Dadap Village, Tangerang
Isma Ismail - Lembaga Studi Pengembangan Pedesaan, Jakarta


Consultants
Dra. Wiwiek Soedjono - Housing Agency of DKI Jakarta Advisor
Ir. Agus Permadi - PT. Seecon, Bekasi
Drs. Widiosetio- PT. Seecon, Bekasi
Amrullah Ahmad- PT. Astron Polaris, Jakarta
Drs. Thamrin Dalimunte- PT. Bina Asih, Jakarta
Ir. Tulus P.J. Sihombing- PT. Redecon, Tangerang
Drs. Prihardiono -PT. lndoconsult, Jakarta
John L. Taylor, Ph.D. - DHV Consultant, Jakarta
Mayling Oey Gardiner- PT. Irisan Harapan Sejahtera, Jakarta
James Taylor - USAID Consultant


Village Apparatus
H. Saman Haries, BA. -Village Head of Sungai Bambu, North Jakarta
Reza Pahlevi- Economic development of Sungai Bambu Village
Saleh Hadi -Village Head of Galur, Central Jakarta
Drs. Muhari- Village Secretary of Galur
Hasannudin- Economic development of Galur Village
Drs. Komarudin- Village Secretary of Manggarai Selatan
Sofian Efendi - Village Secretary of Kalianyar
Taufik Hidayat - Economic development of Kota Bambu Utara Village
Suhamo - Economic development of Pisangan Baru Village
Diding Suhaedi - Village Head of Jurumudi Baru, Tangerang
Muradi - Village Staff of Jurumudi Baru, Tangerang
Misbach Achmad- Village Head of Dadap, Tangerang
H. Moh. Nasim- Village Head of Tugu, Bogor
H. Abdul Hamid- Village Secretary of Tugu
Drs. Rusli -Welfare division of Tugu
Drs. Antartika SW- Village Head of Kalibaru, Bekasi
Zaenal Arifin - General Affairs division of Kalibaru


Local Government Apparatus

lr. Ongky Sukasah H. -Chief of Housing Agency of DKI Jakarta
Ir. Hassan M. Arief- Housing Agency of DKI Jakarta Staff
Sutrisno - PMU Staff, Tangerang Municipality
Budi Cahyono, BE. - Project Leader of KIP-JUDP III (Social & Economic), Tangerang
Ir. Taufik Emil - IUIDP Secretariate, Tangerang Municipality
Ir. Joko Pitono - IUIDP Secretariate, Bogor Regency
Ir. Samson Sibarani- IUIDP Secretariate, Bogor Regency
Ir. Herman - IUIDP Secretariate, Bekasi Regency
Ir. Lodi Sutardjo- Project Leader of Physi~al Development of KIP-JUDP III, Tangerang


Directorate General of Human Settlements (DGHS)

David Read Barker Ph.D- DGHS Advisor, MFP
Ir. Andria Suhandjaja,. Dipl., SE, MA - Programming Directory
Ir. Rejeki Peranginangin, MSc. - Programming Directory
Ir. Djoko Mursito, Dipl. SE- Programming Directory
Djenal Asikin Saleh - Public Relation of PUE Sub Directorate
Ir. Achmad Mufid, Dipl. SE - Technical Directorate
Ir. Rustian Ramlan - Technical Directorate


nonor Representatives
Alfred Larnbertus- UNDP World Bank Water & Sanitation Program
Suhadi Hadiwinoto - ESIU RSI
Stuart Whitehead - EA3IN
        ANNEX 6
• TERM OF REFERENCE (TOR)
                                                    2

       d.     Propose a framework for the sanitation components of future KIP activities.


Terms of reference:

5.     Over a period of about six weeks, you will undertake the following activities to fulfill the
       objectives of this assignment:

       a.      Collect and analyze secondary data from public and private agencies involved with KIP
               in the JABOT ABEK region, which includes DKI Jakarta, Kotamadya & Kabupaten
               Boger, Kotamadya & Kabupaten Tanggerang, and Kotamadya & Kabupaten Bekasi.
               Particular attention should be given to documenting 1.) the planning, financing. and
               implementation process, 2.) roles of Govt. agencies, NGOs, private sector, and
               communities, 3.) community mobilization and training activities, and 4.) physical
               coverage achieved and costs ~

       b.      In a representative sample ofKIP communities, carry out a participatory rapid appraisal
               of the Program. with particular attention to 1.) user understanding and satisfaction with
               the program approach and facilities provided (i.e. technology choice, design.
               construction quality), 2.) involvement in decision-making during planning and
               implementation. 3.) O&M arrangements (both proposed by the project and actually
               practiced), 4.) impacts on hygiene behavior, 5.) financing arrangements (i.e. community
               contributions to capital and O&M costs), and 6.) user financed expansion of services
               through the construction of additional facilities (both public and private), including
               impacts on job creation and income generation;

       c.      In relation to items b.S & b.6 above, review any credit arrangements in place, including
               both traditional systems and any established through the project, to finance a range of
               sanitation options available to families in selected communities. Features of these credit
               programs which have limited their accessibility and, thereby, restricted beneficiary choice
               should be identified together with recommendations for improvements. Of course,
               successful aspects of the credit arrangements should also be documented;

        d.     Based on the information collected through activities a., b. and c. above, assess the
               strengths and weaknesses of the sanitation component ofKIP in IUDP ill. develop
               detailed recommendations for addressing any weaknesses identified, and analyze the
               strengths of the program in order extract lessons for other urban sanitation projects;

        e.     Based on the analysis in c.• prepare a draft plan of action for the remaining period of
               implementation for the sanitation component of KIP in IUDP III~

        f.     Prepare a draft framework for future sanitation initiatives within KIP comprising policy
               recommendations and a strategy for implementing them.
                                                      .
                                                      .J




6.         The products of the activities described above should be presented in a comprehensive report
           written in English and Indonesian by 31 May. 1996. The report should be submitted in hard
           copy and on computer disk using either WordPerfect or Microsoft Word software.

cc:        Stuart Whitehead (EA3IN); Suhadi Hadiwinoto. Ben Fisher (ESIU-RSI); Richard Pollard. Luiz
           Claudio Tavares (RWSG-EAP); Brian Grover (WSP-TWUWS)
JSIRPoll:ltd
