Report No. 671a-BA
Appraisal of the First
Telecommunications Project (P&T)
Burma
April 29, 1975                                                                     FILE  COPY
South Asia Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          K 6.24
K 1        US$.1603
MEASURES EQUIVALENT
1 kilometer = 0.621 statute mile
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
Carrier       - A system providing a number of telephone circuits over
one radio link, coaxial cable or pair of wires.
Channel       - Frequency band of a carrier system carrying telephone,
telegraph or data signals.
Concentrator  - A device which enables a few lines to be shared by a
number of subscribers.
Crossbar      - An automatic telephone switching system utilizing a con-
necting matrix with horizontal bars and vertical bridges.
DEL           - Direct exchange line.
Gentex        - Telegraph exchange switching system used by public tele-
graph service.
HF            - High frequency (3-30 MHz).
ITU           - International Telecommunications Union.
Lincompex     - A device to improve the quality of speech on an HF radio-
telephone system.
Magneto       - A manual exchange where the signaling is done by a magneto
operated generator.
MHz           - Megahertz.
Microwave     - Radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz but
normally applied to systems working at frequencies above
1,000 MHz.
Multiplex     - The equipment in a carrier system which shifts and stacks
the different circuits in the frequency spectrum appropri-
ate to the particular carrier system.
P&T           - Posts and Telecommunications Corporation.
STD           - Subscriber trunk dialing.
Telex         - Teleprinter exchange service for public subscribers.
UNDP          - United Nations Development Program.



BU M4A
POSTS AND TELECOMINICATIGNS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMOUICATIONS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................... i-i
1.    INTRODUCTION   ...............................................                                             1
2.    THE  ECONOMY  AND  THE  SECTOR  ................................1
The  Economy  ...........................................
The Telecommunications Sector ................                                                      2
Existing Telecommunications Facilities ................                                             3
3.    THE  PROGRAM   AND   THE   PROJECT  ...............................                                        4
The  Program  ...........................................                                           4
The  Project  ...........................................                                           5
Cost of the Project .....................                                                           6
Contingencies ........................                                                              7
Items for IDA Financing ...............................                                             7
Procurement                 .................................                                       7
Disbursement                     ..........................................                         8
Ececution                  .................................                                        8
4.    JUSTIFICATION  OF  THE  PRDJECT  ..............................                                            9
Demand  for  Telecommunications  Services   .0...............                                     l
Least  Cost  Solution                     .     ..................................                12
Rate  of  Return  ........................................                                        12
5. THE BENEFICIARY ..................                                      ,.                       ...  13
Organization  and  Management  ......                         .................. ...              13
Technical  Staff  and  Training  ......                         ....................              13
Accounting   ...              .........................................                           14
Audit          .................................................                                  15
Tariffs  ................. ..                    ............................                     15
Taxes  and  Insurance  .................                      *   .................               16
This report is based on information provided by P&T and on the findings
of G. E. Hams, R. C. Mitchell, M. Yokoi, and T. Miyawaki who visited Burma
in November and December 1974.



Page No.
6.   FINANCES ...*..*................*......                   .........0000  16
Backgrouad . . . . . . . .... 0 . *. 0. . . &. . 0. 00. . *. . *. 000. *  1 6
Postal Operations ..  A..00--.00.0#  ..0                           17
Past Perforviancie .......... . .* A....... .   *....... ... ...  1 7
Present Financial Position .......................                 17
Financing Plan                                                     18
Future Financial Results                       .............. ... 0.0.. ...... .....  1 9
7.   RECOMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS                                            20



LIST OF ANNEXES
1. International Telephone Statistics
2. Basic Data
3. Existing Facilities
4. Annual Program Expenditures
5. Project Works
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. The Impact of the Project on Business Enterprises
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
Chart No. WB 9658 - Rangoon Telephone System Trunk Calls
8. Demand for Telephone Connections
Chart No. WB 9505 - Demand for Direct Telephone Exchange Lines
Chart No. WB 9657 - Development of Telephone Density, 1900-1974
9. Rate of Return
Chart No. WB 9506 - Existing Organization
10. Representative Tariffs
11. Statement of Financial Position
12.  Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
13. Income Statement
14. Performance Indicators
Map
Proposed Main Trunk Routes - IBRD 11474






BURStA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (P&T)
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In May 1974 the Government of Burma requested IDA assistance in
financing their FYs 1976-79 program of telecommunications development.
ii.       The present very inadequate telecommunications service in Burma
is one of the bottlenecks to the growth of output of productive sectors.
With only one telephone per 1,000 of population, Burma ranks amongst the
IDA countries with lowest levels of service. There is a large number of
pending applications for new subscriber connections and substantial unsat-
isfied demand for trunk calls. The Posts and Telecommunications Corpora-
tion (P&T), which is responsible for all public telecommunications service
in Burma, has drawn up a program for telecommunications development for
the FYs 1976-79 which represents the first major effort to improve telecom-
munication services since the early 1960s when the only significant invest-
ment of the post war period was made for the Rangoon telephone system.  The
estimated cost of this program is K 193 (US$30.9) million with a foreign
exchange component of K 131 (US$21.0) million.
iii.      The four year project (FYs 1976-79) identified for the first Bank
Group telecommunications lending operation in Burma would be this FYs 1976-
79 development program of P&T. It would provide for 17,000 lines of local
exchange equipment and associated cable facilities to partially meet the
demand for new telephone connections, trunk transmission equipment and
switching equipment to interconnect major centers and exchange and switching
equipment to meet the demand for telex service. An IDA Credit of US$21.0
million is proposed to cover the foreign exchange component of this develop-
ment program.
iv.       All the equipment financed by the proposed Credit would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding except in respect of goods
valued at about US$380,000, or less than 2% of the Credit amount, where
for reasons of economy and compatibility it is proposed that certain equip-
ment be directly purchased from existing suppliers.
v.        The project is the urgent, minimum level of investment that Burma
should undertake to lessen the current handicaps to economic development.
The project is the least cost method of achieving service objectives and is
technically and financially sound. The minimum estimate of internal economic
return is about 22%. Sensitivity analysis was conducted and even with an
unfavorable combination of main parameters, the rate of return would not be
less than 15%.



- ii -
vi.       The Posts and Teleccmuaunications Corporation is a well managed
entity which will be able to execute the project. Weaknesses in their
training program and accounting system will be remedied during the project
with the assistance of consultants.
vii.      The borrower would be the Government of Burma which would relend
the funds to the beneficiary, the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(P&T) for a term of 24 years, including a four year grace period, and at an
annual interest rate of 8½j.
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$21.0 million.



BUJ4A
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS COIPORATION (P&T)
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRDJECT
1. INT9DbUCTION
1.01      In May 1974 the Government of BUrma requested IDA assistance in
financing the foreign exchange costs of its 1976-79 program of telecommuni-
cations development.
1.02      The 4-year project (FYs 1976-79) proposed for Bank Group lending
would be the first telecommunications lending operation in Burma and would
comprise P&T's development program for that period. The project aims to
meet part of the urgent demand for new telephone connections; to improve
the service to be offered to existing and new subscribers by replacing
worn-out equipment and by expanding the trunk network; and to improve tele-
graph services by up-grading the public telegram service and by introducing
a national telex service. The estimated cost of the project is K 193
(US$30.9) million with a foreign exchange component of K 131  (US$21.0)
million. An IDA Credit of US$21.0 million is proposed to cover this foreign
exchange component.
1.03      The Government of Burma would be the borrower and relend the
proceeds of the Credit to the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (P&T)
at St% for a term of 24 years, including a four year grace period. P&T,
the beneficiary of the Credit,is responsible for all public telecommunica-
tions services within Burma and for international services to other countries.
1.04      The report is based on information provided by P&T and on the
findings of G.E. Hams, R.C. Mitchell, M. Yokoi, and T. Miyawaki who visited
Burma in November and December 1974.
2. THE ECONOMY AND THE SECTOR
The Economy
2.01      The Union of Burma comprises Burma proper, administered directly
by the Central Government and the States of Kachin, Shan, Kayah, and Karen,
each with its own State Government. It is bounded by India, Bangladesh and
the Bay of Bengal on the north and west; and China, Laos and Thailand on
the east. Seventy percent of the population lives in the valleys and plains
along the Irrawaddy River, its tributary, the Chindwin, the many river
branches in the Irrawaddy delta and the lower Salween River.



2.02      The economy depends primarily on the agricultural and forestry
sectors but mineral and oil resources are being exploited and have high
potential. Much economic activity is concerned with the trade and movement
of primary products. Agricultural produce of the delta and of central Burma
is moved for consumption in the cities, towns and less fertile areas of the
country and for export via Rangoon and Bassein. Forestry products, minerals
and oil are moved from their sources to the Rangoon area for processing,
redistribution of refined products or export.
2.03      The Burmese economy is operating below its potential.  Improved
performance requires not only a higher level of investment with immediate
emphasis on quick-yielding projects but also better management at all levels
and in all fields. Good telecommunication services are important for
improving the operational efficiency of all productive and service sectors.
Because of this, and the contribution that it can make in maintenance of
national unity, the Burmese Government places high priority on improved
telecommunications.
The Telecommunications Sector
2.o4      Prior to 1972, telecommunication services were the responsibility
of a Department of State, the Posts and Telecommunications Department. In
response to a directive issued by the Chairman of the Revolutionary Council,
P&T was established in March 1972 as a Government-owned corporation under
the policy and direction of the Ministry of Transport and Communications,
and a smaller department was retained within the Ministry of Transport and
Communications to handle governmental responsibilities (see para. 2.05
below). This organization of the sector is in line with world trends and
is satisfactory.
2.05      P&T is responsible for the provision and operation of all local,
trunk and international public telecommunications services in Burma. The
small Posts and Telecommunications Department of the Government is respon-
sible for giving advice to the Minister on national telecommunications
policy; for providing liaison with international bodies such as the ITU;
and for exercising licensing functions for home and commercial radio
receivers.
2.06      P&T is required to operate in a commercial manner in providing
and operating Burma's telecommunications services. Its management has
adequate autonomy and Government control of P&T is limited to policy direc-
tion from the Minister of Transport and Communication; to the review of
P&T's development plans and annual budgetary estimates by the Ministry of
Planning and Finance and their approval by Parliament; approval of tariffs
by the Minister of Transport and Communications and their tabling for con-
sideration of the Council of Ministers; selection of senior management staff
by the Public Services Selection and Training Board; and responsibility
for auditing of P&T's accounts.



-3-
2.07      P&T's corporate status will be formalized during 1975 with the
issuing by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of a notification
under "The Law Conferring Powers for the Construction of a Socialist Economic
System, 1965". The draft notification made available to the Association
adequately preserves P&T's present degree of autonomy.
Existing Telecomminications Facilities
2.08      Barma, with 1 telephone per 1,000 population, ranks very low
even amongst the IDA countries with poor levels of service (see Annex 1).
As of December 31, 1973, 22,970 direct connections (DELs) were provided
on 136 exchanges. Further basic data on the existing services are given
in Annex 2 and existing facilities are described in the following para-
graphs and in Annex 3. Only in Rangoon are there relatively modern
automatic facilities but extension has fallen well short of demand. Else-
where only manual service is available using obsolete and generally over-age
plant. The trunk network is old, unreliable and its capacity inadequate.
Local Telephone Service
2.09      Rangoon is served by a network of five automatic exchanges which
use an earlier design crossbar switching system manufactured by L. M.
Ericsson of Sweden, the ARF 101 system. The network has not been extended
for more than a decade and although it has been well maintained, the central
city exchanges are overloaded in the busy periods as usage of the limited
available services has risen beyond design levels. Excessive congestion is
a recurrent feature causing poor service. As of December 31, 1973 Rangoon
had 15,479 connected subscribers(DELts) and the waiting list stood at
4,940.
2.10      Manual service is provided in 131 other towns and at December 31,
1973 there were 7,491 DELs.   The larger of these exchanges and distribu-
tion networks, which serve the 12 most important towns, are old and unreliable,
the latest of these being 25 years old and 4 date from before W4orld War II.
These twelve exchanges provided 3,523 DELs and had a waiting list of 1,002.
The remaining 119 towns are served by small magneto exchanges of 100-line
capacity or less which vary in vintage from pre-World War II to recent years.
Trunk Telephone Service
2.11      The present trunk network is based principally on old pole lines
which generally have been exploited with carrier systems to the limited
extent permitted by their design. An old 24-channel vacuum tube type
microwave radio system onnects Rangoon and Bassein; however the system
has served its economic life and procurement of spares is difficult. Akyab
is connected to the national network by one HF radio circuit only.
2.12      The capacity of the network is inadequate to meet the calling
requirements of the present customers and delays are normal and can often



- 4 -
exceed one day. Transmission quality is poor due to the age of plant and
route breakdowns are frequent because of deterioration due to age and also
because of theft of copper wire from pole routes -- a present day problem
common throughout the developing world. The service is thus poor and
unreliable.
International Telephone Service
2.13      International telephone services are operated from the Rangoon
manual switchboard which is located in the Maungtaulay exchange building
and has four international positions. HF radio schedules are maintained
with Hong Kong, Tokyo, Pyongyang, Calcutta, Karachi, Dacca, Singapore and
Shanghai. Service is largely restricted to the Rangoon area due to the
poor quality of the internal long distance network and the fact that the
international circuits are operated by HF radio. The present traffic level
is very low indeed, amounting in total to about 10 calls a day. Two circuits
to Tokyo and Hong Kong have recently been equipped with Lincompex equipment
which improves somewhat the quality of telephone service on HF radio circuits.
There is no doubt that Burma would benefit considerably from the improved
telephone and telegraph contact with the rest of the world that would result
from provision of a satellite earth station. However, the investment of
approximately U3$5.0 million is at present beyond P&T's limited financial
resources. Hence P&T must make do for a time with minor improvements to
existing facilities. P&T might advance the provision of an earth station
should it become possible for them to arrange suitable financing for this
work.
Telegraph and Telex Services
2.14      There are a total of 283 public telegraph offices throughout the
country and transmission of messages is largely over land line Morse sounder
circuits or through use of HF radio links. There is a total of 10 tele-
printer circuits operating between main offices. Overseas telegraph services
operate via a main route to Colombo which is kept open through the day and
at fixed time schedules to Calcutta, Dacca, Karachi, Bangkok, Hong Kong,
Tokyo, Shanghai, Manila, Pyongyang. Automatic error correcting facilities
are only available on the Hong Kong link. Mutilations of the text are there-
fore frequent and quality of service poor.
2.15      Telex service is restricted to international service originating
and terminating in the City of Rangoon where a 50-line concentrator with
three operating positions is installed. At present there are 30 subscribers;
service is available only via Hong Kong to which three outlets with automatic
error correcting facilities are available. Service standards appear
reasonable.
3. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
3.01      The program of expansion in the period FYs 1976-80 recommences



- 5 -
development of the Burmese telecommunications network which, other than
for the installation of modern automatic telephone facilities in Rangoon
in the period 1958-1964, has remained virtually static since World War II.
It is a modest program in view of Burma's present resource limitations and
consists of
(a)  P&T's ongoing works which continue through FY78 and essentially
include provision of about 1,000 line units of manual telephone
exchange equipment;
(b) the project consisting of the FY1976-79 development program for
the modernization and expansion of the basic telecommunications
facilities; and
(c)  preliminary works in FY80 for the next development program.
The program for FY1976-80 is estimated to cost K 315 (US$50) million with
a foreign exchange component equivalent to K 210 (US$34) million. Annual
and total capital expenditures are shown in Annex 4.
The Project
3.02      The proposed project is the P&T's development program covering
the period FY1976-79 and includes the following items:
(a) Installation of 17,000 line units of local automatic telephone
exchange equipment including replacement of 4,3)0 line units
now in existing manual exchanges in 12 cities thus providing
for a net additional capacity of 12,700 line units;
(b) installation of cable and associated distribution network equip-
ment to enable connection of about 12,000 new DELs and for
upgrading the lines of the 3,400 existing subscribers connected
to manual exchanges which are being converted to automatic
working;
(c) provision of subscriber apparatus including 22,750 automatic
telephone instruments;
(d)  installation of trunk transmission facilities, including
microwave radio systems and associated multiplex equipment
interconnecting the major centers of Rangoon3 Moulmein, Mandalay,
Bassein and important centers along the Irrawaddy River;
low capacity radio systems for spur routes to the provincial
centers of Akyab and Tavoy; and open wire carrier systems for
existing pole routes;
(e) installation of automatic trunk switching centers for Rangoon
and Mandalay which will provide STD to all centers having
automatic service and addition of 13 manual trunk exchanges
at key centers in the network to give improved manual services
from and to other communities;



(f)  installation of 120 telex and gentex exchange lines and 80 telex and
subscriber units; and
(g) provision of construction vehicles and assorted machines such as
borers for cable crossings of roadways for use in local distri-
bution networks and miscellaneous eauipment ancillaries to improve
productivity in operation of telephone and telegraph services.
Further details of the project are given in Annex 5.
Cost of the Project
3.03      The estimated cost of the project summarized below is K 193
million including a foreign exchange component of K 131 (US$21.0) million.
Details of the project including annual expenditures are given in Annex 4.
K million              US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Local Telephone Facilities
Exchange equipment         5.68   24.03   29.71    0.91    3-85    4.76
Distribution networks     10.32   14.96   25.28    1.65    2.40    4.05
Subscriber apparatus       0.52    2.49    3.01    0.08    0.40    0.48
Trunk Line Facilities
Switching                  1.56   12.06   13.62    0.25    1.93    2.18
Trunk routes               9.65   46.17   55.82    1.55    7.40    8.95
Telegraph & Telex
Switching                  0.22    1.41    1.63    0.04    0.22    0.26
Teleprinters               0.28    1.67    1.95    0.04    0.27    0.31
Buildings                    21.11      -     21.11    3.38     -       3.38
Vehicles, Construction    )  2.91    1.60    4.51    o.46    0.26    0.72
Machines & Misc. Equipment)
Sub-total          52.25  104.39  156.64    8.36   16.73   25.09
Contingencies
Price                      9.36   25.33   34.69    1.50    4.06    5.56
Physical                   0.34    1.32    1.66    0.06    0.21    0.27
PROJECT TOTAL       62.0   131.0  193.0       9.9   21.0    30.9



3-04      The project oost estimates for equipment to be imported are
based on recent quotes obtained by P&T from suppliers of equipment and
services; and on information on world price levels provided to them by
visiting ITU missions. For local expenditures, they are based on pre-
vailing civil works, buildings and staff costs and customs charges. The
estimates are reasonable.
Contingencies
3.05      Price contingencies provided for in the estimates of total proj-
ect cost amount to 24% of foreign exchange costs and 18% local costs. The
year-by-year allowances on foreign exchange costs are FY76, 7%; FY77, 16%;
FY78, 25%; and FY79, 33%.  These allowances should be ample since in tele-
communications technological developments continue to be a cost reducing
factor and the competition between suppliers is high. Moreover, the cost
of the principal raw material, copper, has rapidly returned from the high
levels of 1974 to a reasonable relationship with those costs previously
prevailing. Fuel costs have only a small direct impact on the manufacture
of telecommunication equipment.
3.06      A physical contingency provision has been allowed to cover
uncertainty as to the trunk traffic increase which will occur when higher
standard service is offered. It amounts to 5% of both the foreign exchange
and local costs of the traffic dependent component of the trunk service
items in the project. No other physical contingencies have been allowed
for. Review of P&T's proposals carried out by the mission in conjunction
with the ITU experts indicated that the quantities for local switching and
other trunk items have been estimated accurately, and for the distribution
networks, where a large number of component works are involved, deviations
from individual estimates will tend to balance in the aggregate.
Items for IDA Financing
3.07      An IDA Credit of US$21.0 million is proposed which would finance
100% of the foreign exchange cost of the project and would be allocated
between the different components in the amounts shown under foreign costs
in the table in para. 3.03.
Procurement
3.08      All of the equipment to be financed by the credit would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines, with the exception of the following, estimated to cost
approximately US$380,000 or less than 2% of the credit amount, where it is
proposed that equipment be directly purchased without competitive bidding:
(a) 1,000 lines of switching equipment to complete the 10,000
line unit serving the center of Rangoon.



- 8 -
(b) equipment to enable the existing automatic equipment in
Rangoon to interwork with the new equipment to be obtained
under international competitive bidding; and
(c) cable network accessories of the type familiar to P&T staff
and which have proved themselves in very wet and humid
conditions, at an estimated total cost of US$100,000. P&T
does not have the resources at present to carry out quickly
the time-consuming task of testing alternative products for
suitability under Burmese conditions.
Disbursements
3.09      The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed against the CIF cost
of imported equipment and materials and the foreign exchange costs of
services and training. Annex 6 shows estimated disbursements from the
proposed Credit. As the project is part of a continuing investment pro-
gram, it is proposed that any savings be made available, after consulta-
tion with IDA, for the purchase of additional items of the same type.
Execution
3.10      P&T has the capability of planning, designing and executing the
project.  P&TIs staff will install all local distribution networks, sub-
scribers? apparatus and open wire carrier sets. P&T's staff will assist in
the installation of the long distance transmission facilities, telephone
exchanges and telex exchange under supervision of the supplier's engineers.
3.11      P&T has sought UNDP/ITU assistance for the provision of experts
to assist principally with procurement of switching, telegraph, radio relay
and multiplex equipment. In addition, the experts would provide relief to
P&T in the early years of the project period in meeting the peak work load
for detailed planning. UNDP funds have been allocated and an agreement is
now being finalized; to shorten lead-time, ITU has already commenced
recruitment of the experts.



- 9 -
4. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
4.01      The country economic reports on Burma stress the importance of
stimulating output, of improving efficiency in most fields and of encour-
aging enterprise. The 1973 economic report (No. 168a-BA) points to the
inadequacy of telecommunications as one of the bottlenecks to the growth
of output of productive sectors. Investment in telecommunications facili-
ties has been almost totally neglected and the present service is very
poor (see Section 2) being comparable to that existing in the developed
countries at the start of this century when telephones were first being
used (see Annex 8).
4.02      The project is a balanced allocation of the limited resources
available to P&T and provides the minimum level of development necessary
to adequately remove the bottleneck to growth. It provides services con-
necting key distribution and production centers in the main production area
of the country from the Lower Burma (Rangoon, Bassein, Moulmein) to the
upper dry zone (Mandalay), along the Irrawaddy River (Prome, Magwe). Rice
production and distribution are concentrated in this area and vital trans-
portation activities and important industrial developments are carried on
along the Irrawaddy River. Sufficient investment is allocated to upgrading
the service given to existing subscribers by replacing worn out and out-
dated exchange equipment and line plant and by augmenting the traffic
carrying capacity of the network and the remainder is allocated to partially
meeting the demand for new connections. The project forms an integrated
development of the network in accordance with a sound national telecommuni-
cation plan (see Para. 4.15).
4.03      The realization of objectives in agricultural, commercial, indus-
trial, administrative or social fields requires coordination of a number
of individual human efforts and the marshalling of several inputs at
dispersed locations. Telecommunications are vital for achieving such
coordination efficiently. Telecommunications overcome the impediment of
distance and dispersion of operations and permit the fast personal contact
and information interchange which is indispensable to management in a
present day economy. This in turn leads to increased productivity and
lower capital requirements and operating costs in all sectors.
4.04      Poor telecommunications service in Burma is undoubtedly a factor
in the management problems now being experienced throughout the country in
production; in marketing; and in commodity distribution. This is shown
clearly in Annex 7 which records data obtained from interviews of the senior
management of public corporations with different types of large scale opera-
tions of consequence for the Burmese economy. For example, amongst other



- 10 -
similar cases it shows that transport sector management is unable to use
its limited capacity (boat, trucks, etc.) efficiently and, in the
agriculture sector, effective allocation of tractors in cooperative under-
takings to fit with daily needs is made very difficult and even the pro-
curement of spare parts and fuel is often delayed. The Burmese Government
has recognized that the national benefits from improved efficiency in
enterprises of all types will be considerable and therefore gives high
priority to this investment.
Demand for Telecommunications Services
Local Telephone Service
4.05      Because of the low level of investment, P&T has been able to
provide only 3,500 telephone connections over the last five years, bringing
the total of DELs at December 31, 1973 to 22,970. Though potential users
have been actively discouraged from seeking service, the waiting list,
maintained for the 13 largest towns only, has grown at about 8% per annum
and as of December 31, 1973 stood at 5,942 (4z,940 in Rangoon and 1,002 in
the remaining 12 towns). Even with future growth at this highly damped
rate, demand (DELs plus waiting applicants) at the end of FY79 would be
44,o000 DELs. The number of DELs provided at March 31, 1979 is expected to
reach 36,200 under the project; leaving a waiting list of about 8,000 (see
Annex 8). But experience in other developing countries indicates that the
growth of demand will be much greater and a more likely estimate would
place unsatisfied demand at at least 28,000 (see Annex 8). The scale of
provision is therefore very modest.
h.o6      The 7,200 lines to be provided in Rangoon will cater partially
for outstanding demand in the capital and will bring improved service to
existing customers by removing some of the overload resulting from excessive
usage of the limited number of services now available.
4.07      Outside of Rangoon the remaining 9,800 lines of the project are
spread as single exchange units serving the next 12 largest cities. The
project will replace the present old and unreliable manual facilities with
automatic service and provide for a limited amount of growth.
Trunk Service
h4o8      The present trunk network is based principally on very old pole
routes which have been exploited to their maximum capacity. Delays on
trunk calls have been increasing because of lack of sufficient circuits for
traffic and increasing outages due to age of the line plant and to copper
wire thefts. As a result traffic carried has been static or declining over
recent years (see Attachment to Annex 7). If the proposed replacement of
the backbone -- Mandalay-Rangoon-Moulmein route -- of the trunk network is
not carried out as scheduled, this deterioration of service will continue
with the possibility that a complete breakdown could occur within a few
years. An example is the current Moulmein-Tavoy route which is rapidly
becoming unworkable.



- 1l -
4.09      The expansions required on the main routes in 1979 to provide
good quality trunk service to existing and new subscribers have been
estimated on the basis of experience under similar conditions within the
region and are reasonable. The table at the end of this paragraph shows
the number of circuits now existing and those required for public traffic
in 1979. In addition a further increase in capacity is required for
future growth and for other needs e.g. for leased lines, radio program
lines and telegraph bearers. The figures in the table highlight the
acute paucity of circuits at present.
Existing    Required 1979
Rangoon-Mandalay         21            170
Rangoon-Prome             9             67
Rangoon-Pegu              4             59
Rangoon-Bassein          11             89
Rangoon-Moulmein         12             78
Mandalay-Meiktila         6             54
Mandalay-Magwe            6             68
4.10      In addition to improving the main routes as shown in the pre-
ceding paragraph improved service is also urgently required for Akyab
and Tavoy -- important towns which serve as focuses for the economic
activities in two regions. At present Akyab is connected by only one
circuit provided through use of HF radio. The service is poor because
of the inadequate traffic handling capacity and the inherent transmission
inadequacy of HF radio working. Service to Tavoy is also very poor
because the old pole route from Moulmein to Tavoy is almost continuously
unworkable.
4.11      Microwave radio routes connecting Rangoon to Mandalay, Moulmein
and Bassein and serving main centers in between, particularly those where
automatic exchanges are being provided in the project, have been selected
as the least cost method of providing the capacity required in this back-
bone of the Burmese trunk network. Low capacity radio spur routes will
connect Akyab (12-60 channels depending on detailed route survey) and
Tavoy (6-12 channels) to the new network which will give significantly
improved service to these more remote centers at minimum cost and will
avoid works in inacessible or insecure areas.
4.12      Automatic trunk switching centers to be provided in Rangoon and
Mandalay will enable STD to be provided between automatic exchanges on the
microwave radio routes. New manual trunk exchanges will be located at 10
provincial centers providing improved access to the new network for the
hinterland they serve.
4.13      The improved trunk network will bring additional benefits through
the increased capacity, the quality of transmission and the reliability of
service then available. Apart from providing improved telephone service to
the public, it will be possible to relay at low cost programs from Rangoon



- 12 -
to regional centers for broadcasts using standard medium frequency waves.
The major part of the Burmese population will then benefit from broadcasts
of good strength and fidelity which can be received with low cost receivers.
P&T will also be able to provide leased lines for Government authorities
(railways, airline, security, etc.) and other large enterprises where
required for efficient operation, avoiding the alternative of separate more
costly investments for inferior facilities.
4.14      The new trunk network also provides the reliability needed for
expansion of machine-based telegraphy. The small investment included in the
project for telegraphy will give a significant improvement in the present
public telegram service and will lay the foundation for its further develop-
ment. National telex which will be introduced on a small scale will assist
management of the large commercial enterprises.
Least-Cost Solution
4.15      Despite the fact that no significant investment has been made for
more than a decade in development of the Burmese network, P&T's staff has
kept abreast of world developments and has prepared a master plan for future
development of their national network. P&Tts ideas have been reviewed by
ITU experts and the resulting plans have enabled the project to be designed
to meet the urgent immediate needs and also to lay the basis for progressive
development of an efficient and economical network, serving the whole nation.
4.16      The facilities to be provided and the engineering methods proposed
were determined by P&T after discussions with ITU experts and the Association's
identification mission. They were reviewed during the appraisal in collabor-
ation with an ITU mission of three experts who were in Rangoon at that time to
finalize the UNDP/ITUJ telecommunications training and advisory projects and
found to be least-cost solutions for meeting the service objectives.
Rate of Return
1.17      The internal rate of return on the project, defined as the discount
rate which equalizes the stream of expected revenues attributable to the
project with the capital and operating costs, excluding taxes, is 22%
(Annex 9). If the foreign exchange component is shadow priced, the rate of
return would decrease to 15%. Sensitivity analysis was conducted and even
with an unfavorable combination of main parameters, the rate of return would
decrease from 22% to not less than 15%.
4.18      Since all the above internal rates of return exceed the opportunity
cost of capital in Burma, the foregoing indicates that, on average, the prices
subscribers are asked to pay will exceed the long run marginal cost of tele-
phone service. Normally this would imply that subscribers are able to demon-
strate, by their willingness to pay, the benefits they receive from tele-
communication facilities and therefore the justification of investments in
the sector. In the case of Burma, where 60% of the users are Government sub-
scribers, the use of payments as an economic measure may not be acceptable
in all cases.  However, the Government of Burma has directed that publicly-
owned enterprises should, within the next few years, become profit-oriented
in which case the role of price in signaling the justification of investment
in telecommunications will become increasingly significant. The kind of
benefits that result from telecommunications for such enterprises are sum-
marized in Annex 7, which describes the series of interviews with directors



- 13 -
of major GovernLment business enterprises and provides a qualitative back-
ground to the internal rate of return calculation. Over and above these
privately perceived benefits however there are external benefits which
accrue to parties other than those who pay directly for use of the facili-
ties.
5. THE BENEFICIARY
5.01      P&T, the beneficiary of the proposed credit, is responsible for
the provision and operation of all public telecommunication services in
Burma. The responsibilities and relationship to Government are set out in
paragraphs 2.05 and 2.06.
Organization and Management
5.02      Since March 1972 when P&T changed from its previous position of
a Government department to that of a Government owned corporation, P&T's
management has been reorganizing its operation to accord with the new
status so as to function effectively on commercial lines (see para. 2.06).
5.03      Accordingly a new financial relationship with the Government
has been defined to place them on a commercial footing and steps have been
taken within P&T to establish an appropriate commercial accounting system
(see para. 5.07). P&T's organizational structure basically follows con-
ventional lines and is satisfactory (see Chart WB9506). However, minor
modifications should be considered in order to meet the requirements of the
growing operations. Because of the insignificant volume of expansion works
in the last decade, no separate group exists to plan, supervise and execute
these construction activities. Such a group will be required to control
these efforts in the future when larger expansion programs will be required.
Also the financial and accounting responsibilities are currently placed in
different organizational units. These functions are complementary and
should be combined in one unit for effective functioning. P&T's management
is aware of these two organizational weaknesses which presently, due to the
small scale of their operations, are not creating any major difficulties.
P&T should make the necessary changes at some future date in line with their
expanding operations and requirements.
5.04      P&T has been organized and has been functioning during the past
two years with the necessary degree of autonomy and is in a position to
manage its operations on an efficient commercial basis. Its senior manage-
ment staff is competent and adequate to discharge its responsibilities.
Technical Staff and Training
5.05      At present, P&T has 4,200 staff employed on telecommunications.
Their professional engineers (about 50 in number) are capable and have kept
abreast of current technical progress through overseas training and visits
sponsored under various aid programs. Their technicians and skilled staff



- 14 -
have done a commendable job in keeping their old plant operative and in
maintaining the more modern switching equipment in the Rangoon network in
good condition.
5.06      P&T has a small technical training school which has been pro-
viding some simple basic technical training. The visiting ITU mission was
also finalizing a US$1 million UNDP/ITU project, included in the UNDP
indicative program for Burma, aimed at upgrading this school to meet the
staff requirements necessary for the proposed expansion of the Burma net-
work.  The time schedule prepared for this project has been designed so
that training facilities are ready in time to re-train the craftsmen and
technicians needed for project execution and to operate the proposed
expanded and modernized network.  iormalities between the Government of
Burma and UNDP are at an advanced stage and it is expected that the project
leader will commence work in Burma before the end of 1975 as planned.
Accounting
5.07      P&T's accounting system is on an accrual basis and provides for
a segregation of corporate activities between Posts and Telecommunications
operations. An effective record of plant investment, supported by a recent
inventory, is maintained. However, the procedures and formats under which
the accounting data are recorded and compiled into final accounts have been
carried over from the cash system of accounting utilized prior to 1972.
These procedures should be revised to fit into the accrual accounting system,
meet current data requirements of management and make possible the utiliza-
tion of accounting machines and computers. P&T and the Government of Burma
are aware of the accounting system deficiencies and have employed a new
Chief Accounts Officer to provide the direction and staff leadership required.
They have also obtained the services of a systems consultant through Colombo
Plan Assistance for a one year period commencing in January 1975. P&T plans
to complete the accounting system review and have the improved system in
operation for the FY77. It was agreed during negotiations that necessary
improvements of the accounting system will have been instituted for the
accounts of FY77.
5.08      Billing and collection procedures for non-government subscribers
are satisfactory. Collections of Government accounts have not been effective
and large outstanding accounts exist. At September 30, 1974, K 14.1 million
or 78% of the outstanding accounts receivable were owed by Government sub-
scribers, representing approximate 13 months' billings to this class of
subscriber. Of this amount K 9.5 million was for services prior to September
30, 1973. The Ministry of Finance and Planning assured the mission that the
Government of Burma and P&T would agree to a plan to settle the Government's
old outstanding accounts and that the Government would assure the timely
payment of current billings. During negotiations it was agreed that in the
future all Government subscribers will pay current billings on a timely basis
and will clear accumulated arrears with all reasonable accounts being paid
by September 30, 1977.



- 15 -
Audit
5.09      Audits of all Government entities and corporations are required by
the Constitution to be performed by the Central Audit and Inspection Office.
The Central Audit and Inspection Office has a division which is devoted to
the conduct of commercial type audits of Govermnent corporations. Ihis
division is composed of commercially trained accountants headed by chartered
accountants who are experienced in the conduct of commercial audits and, it
appears, should be able to perform an audit of P&T that will satisfy
Association requirements. There are no commercial accounting firms of any
appreciable size doing business in Burma. During negotiations it was agreed
that an annual audit of P&T shall be performed by the Central Audit and
Inspection Office and that audited financial statements including the
auditors' opinion shall be transmitted to the Association within six months
after the close of the fiscal year.
Tariffs
5.10      A summary of the current telecommunications tariff is provided
in Annex 10. Although they have not been revised since the early 1960s
the tariffs are generally comparable with the tariffs in many other develop-
ing countries.  Monthly rental of K 20 (US$3.21) and the trunk call charge
for shorter distance calls are comparatively on the high side while the
longer distance trunk call charges and, to a lesser extent, the local call
charges are on the low side. The revenue per DEL is also somewhat low at
US$138 per annum due primarily to the poor trunk service and low trunk usage.
5.11      The levels of the tariffs are presently adequate and have produced
acceptable rates of return on past operations and have generated adequate
funds to meet the limited past expansion programs. Since this condition is
expected to continue through FY77 and telecommunication services are currently
so poor as to make tariff increases extremely unpopular and difficult to
justify, no increasesin tariffs have been proposed until FY78. The 1978
tariff increase, estimated at K 5.4 million (36% of local telephone revenues)
is proposed for the telephone rental and local call charge tariffs. The
second tariff increase proposedfor 1979, coincident with the initiation of
STD, would reflect a rate structure change for trunk calls. This tariff
increase is estimated to increase trunk revenues K 9.7 million (57%) in
FY80, the first full year of its adoption. Tariff increases to generate
these revenues are needed for earning an adequate rate of return (see para.
6.12) and for the financial plan (see para. 6.06).
5.12      The tariff structure generally follows conventional practices
except for two departures - namely, a flat rate billing has been adopted
for billing Government subscribers and trunk call charges level out for
distances over 50 miles.
5.13      Government subscribers are charged a rental of K 37.50 per month
compared to K 20 for non-government subscribers but are not charged for the



- 16 -
number of local calls made, the difference in rental in effect provides com-
pensation to P&T for 175 calls per month which is consistent with the average
number of calls currently experienced by metered subscribers. A test of
Governnent subscribers, however, has shown a significantly higher calling
rate. The Government and P&T agree that this practice is not desirable since
it encourages high usage and is one of the reasons for the congestion being
experienced in the local network. This practice also will be incompatible
with pulse metering to be initiated with the introduction of STD. P&T plans
to discontinue this flat rate billing practice as soon as the billing unit in
the P&T is in a position to handle the additional work involved. During
negotiations it was agreed that P&T will eliminate flat rate billing of
Government subscribers as soon as possible but not later than the beginning
of FY77.
5.14      The current trunk tariff provides call charges for calls of dis-
tances of 0-10 miles, 10-25 miles, 25-50 miles and over 50 miles. The tariff
structure provides for no rate steps for calls of distances over 50 miles
which is inequitable and not conventional. The tariff proposed for initia-
tion coincident with STD operation would create rate steps for 0-25, 26-50,
51-100, 101-200, 201-400 and over 400 miles with a lower than the present
charge for the shorter distances and a higher charge for the longer distances.
With the initiation of STD, a lower late-night tariff should also be estab-
lished.
Taxes and Insurance
5.15      P&T is required to pay normal custom duties on imported materials
and equipment and is also subject to an income tax at the rate of 50%.
5.16      P&T, in the past, has not maintained property damage insurance
coverage on its assets except for vehicles. P&T's assets have a wide
geographic distribution and therefore present a limited concentration of
risk. Experience elsewhere has confirmed that risks of significant damage
to telecommunications plant are minimal and rehabilitation is comparably
not expensive except in the event of a national catastrophe which is
normally not included in the insurance coverage. P&T management however
stated that they would review this position and take action if adequate
protection could be obtained at a reasonable cost.  Additional insurance,
if desired, would have to be arranged through the Government insurance
department.
6. FINANCES
Background
6.01      Prior to 1972 P&T as a department of Government was required
to deposit all receipts from operations in the Union Consolidated Fund
and received all necessary operating funds and expansion funds (which



- 17 -
were extremely limited) from Government. In 1972 P&T was reorganized as
a Government Corporation and provided with a degree of autonomy to handle
its operations (see para. 5.04). Under this new organization P&T is
required to deposit all receipts in the Union Consolidated Fund which are
then credited to P&T's account and is allowed to withdraw funds for opera-
tions and systems expansion in accordance with its approved plan. The
consolidated fund therefore functions in the same manner as a commercial
bank account. Fund requirements in excess of the above must be borrowed
from the People's Bank or other designated authority and serviced on
commercial terms. No equity funding will be provided by Government.
Postal Operations
6.02      P&T in addition to its telecommunications services operates the
postal services for Burma. Postal operations have made a small profit in
most past years and P&T and the Government of Burma intend to continue to
maintain a postal tariff which will cover postal expenditures and do not
intend to use telecommunications receipts to support postal operations or
development programs. During negotiations it was agreed that funds from
telecommunications operations will not be made available for postal opera-
tions or development until all financing requirements for telecommunications
have been met.
Past Performance
6.03      Commercial accounting practices were utilized for the first
time for the period October 1, 1973 to March 31, 1974. P&T's telecom-
munications rate of return after taxes on net plant for this six month
period was the equivalent of the annual rate of 12% and its operating
ratio (excluding income taxes) was 63%. P&T had no long-term debt at
March 31, 1974. These results are satisfactory.
Present Financial Position
6.O4      A summary of the financial position of P&T's telecommunication
operations as of March 31, 1974 is given below. A detailed statement is
shown in Annex 11.
K           U            %
(in millions)
Assets
Fixed Assets
Gross plant in service                 105.0         16.8
Less:  Accumulated depreciation         62.6         10.0
Net plant in service            42 -7                      55
Net Current Assets                         34.5          XS 45
Total Assets                     7b.9        123          100
Liabilities
Equity                                     73.2         11.7         95
Other Liabilities                           3.7           .6           5
Total Liabilities               76.9           L          100



- 18 -
6.o5      P&T has recently comoleted an inventory of its olant and has
established the original cost and deoreciated value based on exoected
lives. No effort has been made to revalue the assets to reflect infla-
tionary trends or different currency parities. Most of the assets excent
for the telephone plant in Rangoon are old and obsolete and provide very
poor quality service, also these obsolete assets bear little similarity
to the type of modern plant which would be utilized if this old plant
were to be replaced. Also the gross and net values as shown in para. 6.04
are reasonably close per DEL to estimated current values in other pro-
jections. Since no significant difference in value would be produced by
revaluation, the distortion to the rate of return would be minimal. The
present values of gross and net plant are therefore acceptable.
Financing Plan
6.o6      Source and Application of Funds Statement for telecommunications
operations is oresented in Annex 12. A summary of the telecommunications
financing plan for the project, FY1976-79 is shown below:
K           US$b         L
Kin millions)
Requirements
Construction program
Ongoing works                           14.4         2.3           7
Proposed project                      190.2         30.5         86
Future program                         15.5          2.5          7
Total requirements           220,1        35.3         100
Sources
Internal generation                       62.8         10.1
Less:  Debt service                    18.9          3o
Net internal generation                   43.9          7.1         20
Decrease in working capital               16.0          2.6           7
Proposed IDA Credit*                     128.5         20.6         58
Local borrowing                           20.0          3.2           9
Customer deDosits and provident
fund contributions                      .9           .1          1
Future program financing                  10.8          1.7          5
Total sources                220.1        35.3         100
*The total proposed Credit is US$21 0 (K 131.0) millions of which US$0.4
(K 2.5) millions of retention payments will be disbursed during FY80.



- 19 -
6.07      The above financing plan estimates tha+i internal generation and
deposits will produce 21% of the fund requirement.  An additional 7% will
also become available by the reduction of the abnormally high working capital
position. A further 58% of the total requirement will be provided by the
proposed IDA Credit. The balance of 9% for the current program will be covered
by local borrowing from the People's Bank on commercial lending terms in
accordance with the Government decree on funds for Government corporations.
6.08      The financial projections assume that the proceeds of the Credit
will be relent by Government to P&T for a period of 24 years including a
four year grace period with an annual interest rate of 8½%. A subsidiary
loan agreement incorporating these terms and providing that the exchange risk
should be borne by P&T will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit.  As a result of this IDA Credit and local bank financing P&T's debt-
equity ratio will change from 0/100 at March 31, 1974 to 62/38 at March 31,
1979. Internal generation will coyer annual debt service at least 201 tines
during each year of the project period. Both the debt-equity and the debt-
service ratio are satisfactory. During negotiations agreement was reached on
the inclusion of the standard covenant in the Credit Agreement requiring the
agreement of the Association before contracting new debt unless the net
revenues of P&T cover the maximum future debt service at least 1.5 times.
6.09      The financial plan, based on tariff increases in FY78 and FY79
(see para. 5.11), is satisfactory for the project period. However, the rapid
increase in the level of debt servicing requirements during the project period
and the need for additional debt financing in the future may present a problem
in future expansion programs following the project. Since the pattern of
revenues will significantly change during the project period due to the many
changes in the physical structure of the telecommunications network, e.g.,
improved trunk facilities and STD operations; the magnitude of the financing
requirements for the further expansion beyond the project cannot be accurately
gauged at this time and should be subjected to a thorough review near the end
of this period when new revenue patterns will have been established and the
requirements of the subsequent development program more completely known.
Future Financial Results
6.10      Forecast income statements for telecommunications operations are
given in Annex 13. A summary of the results during the project period is
shown below.
Year ending March 31:            1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Revenue (K million)              31.7    32.8    34.4    42.2    50.7    75.0
Operating income                  6.7     5.9      5.6     9.9    14.6    26.6
Operating ratio (%)               57       64      70      68       65      50
Rate of return after taxes       16.7    14.8    12.1    12.4    10.1    13.1



- 20 -
6.11      Operating revenues are projected to increase in proportion to the
growth of subscribers and as a result of increased trunk revenues after the
installation of the microwave systems and the initiation of STD in 1979.
Revenue projections also reflect proposed tariff revision in FY78 and FY79
(see para. 5.11). Expense projections reflect growth rates experienced in
the past adjusted for the anticipated staffing levels.
6.12      With the proposed tariff increases in FY78 and FY79, the inter-
nally generated contribution is adequate to ensure the funding of the
project and the servicing of debt. The financial projections show a rate
of return on average net fixed assets in operations of not less than 10.1%,
after income taxes (50%), during each year of the project period.  Agree-
ment was obtained during negotiations that tariffs will be maintained at a
level to produce a rate of return on average net fixed assets in operations
of not less than 10%.
6.13      Indicators which will help monitor P&T's performance are given
in -nnex 1h.
7. RECONMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
points:
(a) P&T will institute improvement to the accounting system
for the accounts of FY77 (para. 5.07);
(b) the Government will take necessary action to clear the
arrears and assure prompt payment of future billings to
Government (para. 5.08);
(c) P&T accounts will be audited annually by the Central
Audit and Inspection Office and audited statements will
be submitted to IDA within six months after the close of
each fiscal year (para. 5.09);
(d) P&T will eliminate flat rate billing of Government accounts
by the beginning of FY77 (para. 5.13);
(e)  PUT will not utilize the funds of its Telecommunications
Branch to support the operation or development program of
its Postal Branch unless all telecommunications require-
ments have been met (para. 6.02);
(f) P&T will incur no debt without the agreement of IDA unless
the net revenues cover debt service at least 1.5 times
(para. 6.08); and



- 21 -
(g)  P&T will maintain telecommunications tariffs at a level
adequate to assure a minimum rate of return of 10%
(para. 6.12).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness is that the subsidiary loan
agreement incorporating the relending terms for the proceeds of the pro-
posed Credit will be signed (para. 6.08).
7.03      With the above agreements  the project is suitable for an IDA
Credit of US$21.0 million.






BIKIHIC
POSTS A!L TELECII11]ICATIONS CORP)RACTiS
IT'TEPNATIONAL 'TIEEHOEE STATIZItCS
TELEPIH2ASI.- J O3AlJAK  1o14
GROSS NATIONAL
rOPULAT1ONJ1I      PR       erUCT - 1972 aIIATOIAA                                                         PCRINCIPA  CITIES                        B REST OF COSJNTRY
Per Capita                               Av. Annual
,rowth Rate                              Growth Rate                                            Percentage                             Percentage
Jan. 1, 1974  Per Capita   (1960-72)       Total Io.   Per 100        (1-65-74)  Antonmatitaiori  Total No.   Per 100       .' ,atiotal  Total No,   Per 100    of National
COUNTRY                 u000')          206           ,%           (OOO's)   Popolatio-         9)           9)           (222'.)   Population          %        (000's)   Population          %
AE RICA
Algeria                          l6,118          430         3.2             221        1.37           4.7           79.1             i64       6.o',          74            57        0.42           26
Egypt                            35,473          24o         1.5             472        1.33          n.a.           92.4             299       1.88           63           173        o.88           37
Ethiopia                         27,626           Bo         2.6              61        0.22          11.0           86.7              49       3.49           Bo            12        0.05           20
Ghana                             9,443          300         0.0              52        0.55           4.8           69.8              44       2.88           84             6        0.10           16
loery Clant                       4,497          342         4.2              25        o.56           3.6           90.7              17       2.88           69             3        0.20           31
Malawi                            4,799          100         3.6               17       0.35           9.6           90.2               8       4.55           44             9        0.20           56
Nigeria                          70,864          130         2.0              106       0.15           5.8           76,3              61       3.20           57            45        0.07           43
Senegal                           4,203          26o        (2.8)              32       0.75           2.3           92.2              29       3.37           90             3        0.10           10
Sudan                            17,567          120          -               51        0.29           3.7           91.1              45       2.95           88             6        0.04           12
Zaire                            22,738          100         3.3              25        0.11           2.4           76.o              15       0,62           6i            10        0.05           39
AMERICA
Canada                           22,306       4,440          3.6          11,668       52.31           5.2           99.5           5,592      59.15           48        6,076        47.28           52
Colombia                         23,218          4oo         1.8           1,o80        4.65          10.2           97.6             64o       8.72           59           440        2.77           4]
Costa Risa                        1,917         630          3.1               89       4.62          15.2           98.2              82      io.44           93             7        0.58            r
E1 Salvador                       3,807          340         2.2              46        1.20           7.6           96.9              4o       2.81           87             6        0.25           13
Guatemala                         5,569          420         2.2               53       0.95           8.5          103.0              53       4.94          100          -            -             _
Trinadad asd Tatge                  958          970         2.8              66        6.92           6.1           99.9              41      41.14           62            25        2.93           38
United States                   210,420        5,590         3.0         137,762       65.47           4.5           99.9          68,419      73.35           50        69,343       59.20           50
Venezuela                        11,507        1,240         1.8             5o4        4.38           6.8           98.8             431       9.13           85            73        1.68           15
ASIA
Pur_a                            29,411           90         o.8               29       0.10           2.4           69.8              20       1.03           70             9        0.03           30
India                           588,889          110         1.1           1,590        0.27           7.1           60.7             832       2.57           52           756        o.14           48
Indonesia                       128,078           90         2.1              269       0.21           2.6           62.8             157       1.51           58           112        0.10           42
Iran                             31,753          490         6.3              553       1.74          11.8           90.8             469       5.45           85            84        0.36           15
Iraq                             10,608          370         2.7             129        1.22           7.6           92.4            n.a.       n.a.         m.a.          n.a.        n.a          n.a.
Japan                           109,316        2,320         9.4          38,698       35.40          12.2           94.5          16,711      42.61           43        21,987       31.37           57
Malaysia                         11,421          430          3.1             234       2os            6.5           95.3            n.a,       n.a.         n.a.          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Nepal                            11,453           Bo         0.7                9       o.o8          11.8           76.2                9      2.97           99          -            -              1
Pakistan                         67,353          130         3.3             195        0.29           5.0           83.0             14o       1.49           72            55        0.10           28
Phllippinec                      39,451          220         2.2              410       1.04          10.5           97.6             342       4.23           83            68        0.22           17
Singapore                         2,202       1,300          7.1              250      11.36          12.2          120.0             250      ii.36          100          -            -             -
Syria                             6,890          320         3.4             143        2.08           7.1           89.4             121       5.23           85            22        o.48           15
Thailand                         40,700          220         4.6              265       o.65          15.0           91.6             210       4.89           79            55        0.15           21
EUROCPE
France                           52,923        3,620         4.9          11,337       21.66           7.1           91.4           7,255      46.76           64         4,o82       10.91           36
Ger-any (Fed. Rep.)              6i,965        3,390          3.7         17,803       28.73           8.1          100.0           7,810      44.39           44         9,993       22.52           56
Sweden                            8,144       4,480          3.2           4,984       61.20           3.9          130.0           2,416      72.95           48         2,568       53.13           52
Switzerland                       6,501        3,940         2.9            3,604      55.44           5.4          100.0           1,728 -  73.0l             46         1,876       45.37           52
United Kirgdm                    56,o64        2,600         2.3          19,095       34.06           6.7           99.6           7,665      44.33           4C        11,430       29.48           6o
Yugoslavia                       21,039          810          4.8           1,004       1li77         10.5            97.4            4 6      16.13           49           508        2.83           5)
OCEANIA
Australia                        13,176        2,980          3.1           4,659       35.36          5.7           913.8          3,210      37.73           69         1,449       31.04           31
Fiji                                551          270         2.7               23       4.09           8.3           86.9              13      16.16           55            10        ?.16           45
New Zealand                       3,043        2,560          2.1           1,411      46.35           3.9            92.0          1,066      51.23           76           345       35.81           24
Papua New Guinea                  2,491          290         5.6               32       1.30          14.3           97.6              24      17.01           74             8        o.36           26
SOURCES:
1.  G.N.P.: World Balk Atlas 1974
2.  Telephtne Statisties:  World's Telephones by AT&T (Ja--ary 1, 1974)
NOTES:
4   Population at January 1, 1974 dei-ed from the "Total Telephonen" anu. "Telephoneo per 100 Popolation" appe-ring in AT&TM'.s Pol,icati   "World Telephoned' (Janusry 1, 1974)
9)  "Principal Cities" are those considered principal cities it "World Telephones" (Ja-yary 1, 1974) exeept for l'Jeled Staten where principal tities are those  fi
100,000 and aver population appearing in "World Telephones" (January 1, 1974)
na.:  sot available



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
BURMA
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data
(as at December 31, 1973)
I.    Local Telephone
Number of telephone stations                                 29,411
Number of subscriber connections (DEL)                       22,970
Automatic                                                 15,h79
Manual                                                     7,491
Annual growth in subscriber connections
(last three years)                                            3.8%
Number of telephone exchanges
Total                                                        136
Automatic                                                      5
Manual                                                       131
Installed capacity                                           27,320
Exchange fill                                                   -84
Unsatisfied demand for subscriber connections
Total                                                      5,942
As a percentage of satisfied demand                           26%
As a percentage of total demand                               21%
II.   Long Distance Telephone
Total number of long distance circuits                          329
Open wire carrier channels                                   172
Microwave channels                                            21
Physical circuits                                            131
HF radio circuits                                              5
III.  Telegraph and Telex
Number of telegraph offices                                     283
Number of telex offices                                           1
Telex subscribers                                                30
IV.   International Facilities
Telephone circuits                                                8
Telegraph circuits                                               10
Telex circuits                                                    3



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
V.    Staff
Total staff                                                   8,796
Total telecommunications staff                                4,200
Number of staff per 1,000 telephone (stations)                  143
April 22, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5 pages
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECOMNUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Facilities
A. Iong Distance Facilities
1.        One old valve-type 24-channel microwave system working in the
2GHz band connects Rangoon with Bassein with drop-offs at Twante, Manbin,
Wakema and Myaungmya. All other long distance facilities throughout the
network are provided on open wire pole routes carrying copper or copperweld
pairs with, in some cases, 3, 4, or 12-channel carrier systems working on
them. The total number of trunk circuits is 329.
2.        Trunk calls are handled manually and, because the number of lines
is inadequate to meet the traffic needs of existing customers, callers have
to wait normally for one to two hours and sometimes more than a day.
3.        Transmission quality is poor due to the old age of the lines and
equipment. For calls involving many of the exchanges in more remote areas,
transmission has been further degraded due to their connection being made
for reasons of expediency to the nearest point in the network without regard
to the requirements of the national transmission plan. The service is also
subject to frequent interruption due to the high fault-liability of the old
open wire lines, the obsolescent equipment and the frequent theft of copper
wire.
B. Local Facilities
4.        As at the end of 1973 there were 136 telephone exchanges servicing
a total of 23,000 telephone subscribers (DELs); the total number of telephone
stations being 29,411.
5.        Telephone service in the city of Rangoon is relatively reliable,
with five L.M. Ericsson crossbar exchanges installed between 1954 and 1961.
The interexchange signalling system is an obsolescent DC pulsing one.
Ninety-one percent of the installed capacity has been utilized and con-
gestion exists during busy periods in the central city exchanges. Mandalay,
the second largest city, is equipped with a 1,500 line CB exchange originally
recovered from Rangoon. It is in poor condition due to the fact that it is
well beyond its expected life. Two other small central battery exchanges of
a similar age exist in Moulmein and Maymyo. All other exchanges are of the
magneto local battery type.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5 pages
6.        In Rangoon the subscribers' distribution networks make use of
paper insulated and lead-sheathed cables in conduits, armoured ones laid
directly in the ground, self-supporting aerial cables and open wires
together with distribution cabinets and pillars. In other cities, there is
much greater dependence on open wires and pole lines and the fault incidence
is high particularly during the wet season. Open wires on pole routes are
the usual methods to supply subscribers' lines in rural areas.
7.        Details of the types of exchanges,capacities, and working lines
are as follows:
Switch               No. of     Total
Sr.                                     Board                 DELs on  Telephones
No. Name of Exchange           Type      Quantity  Capacity  31/12/73   31/12/73
RANGOON                                        17,000    15,479      20,541
city
1   Maungtawlay           Autom. ARF                9,000     8,993      12,471
2   Hanthawaddy                it                   3,000     2,633       3,125
3   Tamwe                      It                   3,000     2,260       2,782
4   Insein                    it                    1,000       630         989
5   Mayangon                  1t ,3000                          963       1,174
District                                          340       222         3
1   Hmawbi                Magneto/LB        1          50        41          75
2   Kayan                      ,            1          20         22         22
3   Thongwa                    ,            1          20         12         12
4   Hlegu                      ,            1          20         17         79
5   Seikkyri                   ,            2          30         22         33
6   Syriam                     n            1         100         56         58
7   Taikkyi                    ,            1          50         23         23
8   Twante                     ,            1          40         22         26
9   Kungyangon                 ,            1          10          7          7
Prome Sub-division                                745       483         530
1   Prome                 Magneto/LB        5         300        228        253
2   Gyobingauk                 ,,           1          20         16         16
3   Letpadan                   If           1          50         30         33
4   Minhla                     It           1          50         18         20
5   Nattalin                   if           1          20         15         16
6   Okpo                      ,,            1          20         10         10
7   Paungde                    n            1          50         29         31
8   Padaung                   it            1          20         19         19
9   Paukkhaung                 n            1          20         10         10
10   Shwedaung                  it           1          20         17         22
11   Tharawaddy                 n            1         100         53         59
12   Thegon                     ,            1          20         11         12
13   Zigon                      ,            1          25         19         21
14   Monyo                                   1          10          8          8



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5 pages
Switch               No. of      Total
Sr.                                      Board                 DELs on  Telephones
No. Name of Exchange            Type     Quantity  Capacity  31/12/73   31/12/73
Toungoo Sub-division                               560       478         59
1   Toungoo                 Magneto/LB      3          150       155         200
2   Nyaunglebin                "            2           80        50          69
3   Pegu                                   41          250       220         259
14  Pyu                                     1           140       29          37
5   Shwegyin                   ,            1           20        13          114
6   Yedashe                                 1           10         7           7
7   Thandaung                               1           10         4           4
Bassein Sub-division                             1,220       845         964
1   3assein                 Magneto/LB      4          300       264         338
2   3ogale                                   1          20         18         19
3   Dedaye                                   1          20         12         12
4   Ingapu                                   1          20          8          9
5    JDanubyu                                1          20         19         19
6   Henzada                   1?            2          150       112         126
7   Kyaiklat                  ,,            1           50        26          26
8   Kyaunggon                 It            1           10        11          12
9   Kyronpyaw                 It            1           20        18          18
10   Le,myethna                               1          10         8           8
11   Maubin                    II             1         100        65          74
12   Moulmeingyun               .,           1           20        15          15
13   Wyanaung                                1          100        32          34
14   Myaungnya                                1         100         73         78
15   Ngathainggyaung           .t             1          10         7           8
16   Pyapon                     .           1/2          70        58          62
17   Wakama                     ,             1          50        29          30
18   Yandoon                                 1           50        37          39
19   Yegyi                                   1           40        15          18
20   Zalun                     fT            1           20        13          14
21   Kyankin                   ,,            1           10         5           5
Moulmein Sub-division                            1,180       868       1,015
1   Moulmein                  CB             2         550       428         520
2   Vyaikhto                Magneto/LB       1          20         17         19
3   4udon                     it             1          50         19         21
4  Thanbyuzayet                 t            1          20         16         19
5   Thaton                     it            1         100         69         78
6   Ye                         n             1          20         19         21
7   Belin                     Ft            1           20        11          11
8   Tavoy                      n            2          150       118         123
9   Mergui                    it             1         100         72         74
10   Paan                      1t             I         100        68          96
11   Kawkareik                               1           50        3 1         33



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5 pages
Switch                No. of      Total
Sr.                                        Board                 DELs on  Telephones
No.  Name of Exchange           Type       Qu.antity  Capacity  31/1 2/73   31/1 2/73
M4ANhDALAY
City
1   Mandalay                   CB            15        1,500      1, 206      1,498
2   Amarapura               Magneto/LB        1           50         34          35
3   Pathheiri                    n1                       20          9          13
District                                           1, 200       749         891
1   Maymiyo                    CB             1          300        142         166
2   Yritnge                 Magneto/LB        1           20         1           14
3   Kyau.kse                    II            1           60         60           84
4   Meikiitila                   n            2          200        141         206
5   Thazi                                     1           50         26           26
6   ?y awbwe                                  1           50         29           29
7   Yamethin                                  1           50         43          46
8   Pyi.nmana                                  1         100         76           85
9   Mahlaing                     n4 1                     40         1il          15
10     -gan                       i2                       200       129          138
11   Mogok                                      2           20         13          15
12   Lewe                         n             1           20          5           5
13   Kyaukpadaung                               1          50         37           3 7
14   Wuidwin                                    1           20        11          12
15 5 Momeik                                     2           20        11           13
Sagaing Sub-division                               1,340        856       1,004
1   Sagaing                  Magneto/LB        2         200        1 23        149
2   myimnu                       it           1           50          16         19
3   Monywa                      ,,             2          200       157         166
4     5hiwebo                                  1         100         8)4        122
5   Kawlin                       n             1           50         20          21
6   Katha                                      1          100         53          62
7   Kalewa                       rr            1           20         19          21
8   Kalemyo                     ,.             1           50         36          39
9   iMawlaik                                   1           50         18          19
10   Waintho                                    1           10         10          10
11   Ye-U                                       1           20         16          18
12   Ngazun                       n             1           10          8           8
13   Aytvaung                     ,             1           10          8           8
14   M,Vitkyina                                 2          200        114         169
15   Mc ga.mg                     ,             1           50         16          19
16   mohnyin                     I,             1           20         13          13
17   3namo                        ,,            1           5o         47          48
18   Kaka                         n             1           50         45          45
19   Falam                                      1           50         28          28
20   Mindat                                     1           50         20          20



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5 pages
Switch                No. of      Total
Sr.                                       Board                 DELs on   Telephones
No.  Name of Exchange           Type      Qu.antity  Capacity  31/12/73   31/12/73
Magwe Sub-division                                  670                   668
1   Magwe                   Magneto/LB       2          1 50       133        172
2   fYenanchaung               ,,            1           80         77          85
3   Chauk                       it           1           50         53 56
4   Minbu                       n            1           70         55          72
5   Taunigdwingyi                            1           50         43          46
6   Thayet                                   1           60         56          64
7   Aunglan                    ,t            1           40         39          39
8   Pakokku                     n            1           80         69          77
9   1Na-tuauk                                            10          8           8
10   Minla i1                                             10         10          10
11   w-othit,                                 1           10          8           8
12   Nyazungoo                                1           60         28          31
Tauiggyi Sub-division                             1,025       792         898
1   TauiLggyi               Magneto/LB       3          300        293         364
2   Shwenyaung                 it            1           50         19          23
3   Kalaw                                    1           50         29          33
1  4   Aungban                               1           50         23          28
5   Lciile;                                  1           45 )    42             43
.  Kengt.ung                                 1           70         4.38        49
I   .Kyaulae,                                1          , 00        5?         59
8   Hsipaw                                   1           50         32         32
9   Lashio                                   2          150        1o6         122
10   Kutkai                                   1           20         16          18
11   Naunghikio                               1           20         15
12   Narsanig                                 1           20         13          13
13   Namtu                                    1           10         10          10
14   Lo -kaw                                  1           90         85 8
Arakan Division                                     470       377         429
I   Akyab                   Magneto/L B      3          250        235        276 '
2   K.yaukpyu                  ?,            1           80         52         5 
3   Sandoway                                 2           70         59          64
4   BuI tkidaung                             1           20          9          10
5   Maungdaw                                 1           50         22          22
C.AND TOTAL:                            27,320    22,970      29,411
__  ,   .                                                - 



BURMA
POSTS AND TkLECOMEBIIICATIONIS CORPORATION
An..al _rogras lExpenditure s
(thoosando of kyate)
FY 75                    Fy 76                      F Y77                     FY 78                              79                     FY 80                       FY-75-80
Local  Foreign  Total    Loca   Fortgn   Tal        Lal  ForeIgn  Total    Local  Foreig    Ttl             Loa    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
THE PROJECT
Local Telepbene Facilities
Exchange EquIpment                                                         156    .156     2,854   83,639   11,493     1,714   11,284   12,998      1,116        3,949   5,065              -               5,684   24,028   29,712
Distribution Networko                                                                       2,245    3,589   5,834     5,907    8,674   14,581      2,165    2,699   4,864                                 10,317   14,962   25,279
S,bscriber Apparatus                                                                          42       125     167       269   i,4i4    2,683         187      760      947        22      187     209        520    2,486    3,006
Ta-ork Line Facilities
SMitching Equipment                                                                           313    1,2o6   1,519     1,163    9,650   10,313         31    1,206   1,287                                  1,557   12,062   13,619
Radio acd Multiplex Equipment                                                               2,315    6,874   9,139     4,538   27,269   31,807      1,427    7,063   8,496        204    1,589   1,793      8,484   42,801   51,285
Ope- Wire Carrier rqoipment                                                                   2i6      337     553       557    2,698    3,255        393       337     730                                 1,166    3,372    4,538
Teingraph and Telex
Sxi1chiag Bqoipmenc.                                                                           36      14o     176       184    1,26S    1,449                                                         __     222    1,ho5    1,625
Te-minal Unila (Tele.  nt4ero)                                                                !,3      i67     210-      162    1,192    1,352         80       307     387                                    283    1,666    1,949
Buildings                                                       3,716             3,716     9,635     -      9,635     7,761     -       7,761                                                              21,112     -      21,112
Miscellaneous
Vehiclls, Cocctr-otion Mc.hinen,
Miocellaneone Equ-pment Iteon                                    13      ___    13        1,888      200   2.088       867    1,243    2,110         143      i60     303        _                         2,911    1,623    4.514
Sub-Tota]                                                       3,729      156   3,885    10,587   21,277  40,864    23,121   64,639   87,809       5,592   16,487  22,079        226    1,776   2,002      52,254  104,385  156,639
Prct Cootingencie                                                 280       11    291       2,675    3,343   6,o01     4,803   15,894   20,697      1,550    5,451   7,001         54      626     680       9,362   25,325   34,687
Phymical Contingeoci n                                            -          1       1        73      282     355    - - 186     721      907          52      200     252        31      121      152      --342    1,325  -43,67
TOTAL PROJECT                                                     ,2q09    168  4,j77   12,335   24,302  47,237    28,109  8i, 3o4  103,413          7,194   22,138  29,332       311    2,523   2,B3h      61,958  131,035  192,993
BPIC', ONGOIIIG WORKF
Lucal Teleplone Facilities               279      686    965      668    2,243   2,916        565    1,782   2,347       534    1,781    2,315                                                               2,o46    6,497    8,543
Truck Faoilitieo                          68      532    600      112       Si5     927        28      180     208        -       -         -                                                                  228    1,527    1,735
Telegraphs                                34       36    130       95       323    ullS       101      298     399        92      310       402                                                                322    1,027    1,349
Replacement Works                        226      667    t93       312    1,289   1,601      127    1,077   1,264        243    1,077    1,325                                                                 973    4,ilo    5,083
Miocelle-eous                             22       -      22       117:     -       117       124      -       124        63       -         63                                                                326      -         326
TOTAL OGOING0 WORKS                     629    1,931  2,610    1,324    4,675   5,979      1,005    3,337   4,342       937    3,168    4,105                                                               3,875   13,161   17,036
S11:SEQ;RNT DEYILOFOIkST 220GAWI
Local Telephone F-ollitie-                                                                                                                           3,267    7,471  10,138    22,3o4   29,883  52,687      26,071   37,354   63,425
Tk Facilitics                                                                                                                                          384      343   1,227      1,758    9,913  11,671      2,142   10,756   12,893
Telex and Telegalph                                                                                                                                    -        -        -         331      311     642        331       311      642
ContiagecCies                                                                                                                                        1,038    2,494   3,532      8,991   15,040  24,031     10,029   17,534   27,563
T0T7L SUBSEQUENT P51031AM                                                                                                                            4,689   io,3o3  15,497    33,884   55,147  89,031    38,573   65,955 104,528 s
TOTAL OVERALL PROGRAM                    429    1,981  2,610    5,313    4,443  10,196    23,342   0,239  51,579    29,044   84,472  113,513       11,333   32,946  4,323    34,195   57,670  91,365    104,4D6  210,151  314,557
0 Local -oote incl,de 1$O cootoms on imported equipment.
April 28, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2 pages
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Works
1. Local Telephone Facilities
Estimated In-
Service Dates      Capacity
(a) Local Exchanges:
Rangoon
Maungtanlay                                  December  1976   1,000 Line Units
it                                      February  1978   2,600
Mayangon   )                                                  2,000
Thingangyun)                                November  1977   1,000l
Mingaladon )                                                     600
Other Cities
Moulmein, Bassein, Prome                    April      1978   2,600
Mandalay, Meiktila, Magwe, Pegu             September 1978  4L,800
Akyab, Taunggyi, Toungoo)
Lashio, Myitkyina        )                  February  1979   2,4OO
Total      17,000
(b)  Distribution Network, Cables, Cabinets,
Terminals, etc., and Subscriber Apparatus:
Rangoon
Maungtanlay                                 December  1976 cabinets,tenidns, etc.
it                                      January   1978   2,600   DELs
Mayangon, Thingangyun, Mingaladon           November  1977   3,600       "
Other Cities
Moulmein, Bassein, Prome                     April      1978   2,600
Mandalay, Meiktila, Magwe, Pegu               September 1978   4,800
Akyab, Taunggyi, Lashio, Myitkyina           February  1979   2,400
Total        16,000
2. Long Distance Facilities
(a) Microwave System and Spur Radio
Rangoon-Mandalay                             November  1978      480 Channels
Rangoon-Moulmein                             November 1978       180
Rangoon-Bassein                              February  1978      120
Akyab-Prome                                   September 1978       60
Moulmein-Tavoy                                December  1978      12



ANN EX
Page 2 of 2 pages
Estimated In-
Service Dates       Capacity
(b) Open Wire Carrier Systems                     December  1978       213 Channels
(c) Automatic Trunk Exchanges:
Rangoon                                     September 1978       800 Terminations
Mandalay                                    September 1978       600
(d) Ten Manual Trunk Exchanges:
Rangoon                                     February  1978)
Moulmein, Bassein, Prome                    April     1978)      21 positions
Mandalay, Magwe, Pegu, Meiktila             September 1978)
Akyab, Taunggyi, Lashio, Myitkyina          February  1979)
Toungoo
3.  Telex and Telegraph
Switching                                     February  1978       120 Line Units
Subscriber Units and Gentex Office            February  1979        80    it
4. Miscellaneous
Various
Construction vehicles and specialized          (December 1976 - December 1977)
machines (e.g. borer for roadway
crossings) for distribution networks;
telegraph and telephone office equip-
ment (e.g. rotary directory files and
for infoxmation services).
February 28, 1975



ANNEX 6
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year             Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                   at Ehd of Quarter
(US.$ 'OOO)
1975/76
March 31, 1976                           27
June 30, 1976                            27
1976/77
September 30, 1976                       27
December 31, 1976                        27
March 31, 1977                        h,019
June 30, 1977                         5,322
1977/78
September 30, 1977                    7,928
December 31, 1977                    11,838
March 31, 1978                       17,052
June 30, 1978                        17,407
1978/79
September 30, 1978                   18,116
December 31, 1978                    19,181
March 31, 1979                       20,600
June 30, 1979                        20,600
1979/80
September 30, 1979                   20,600
December 31, 1979                    21,000
February 28, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2 pages
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
The Impact of the Project on Business Enterprises
Introduction
1.        The Bank's 1973 Economic Report has recognized that "inadequate
transportation and telecommunications constitute increasingly constraining
bottlenecks to the growth of output". The nature of the problems being
caused by the telecommunication services deficiencies and the impact the
project will have on individual business enterprises is reviewed in this
annex.
2.        The data for the annex was obtained from interviews of the senior
management of public corporations with different types of large scale oper-
ations of consequence for the Burmese economy to reveal more clearly the
impact and need for telecommunication services.  While no effort at quantifi-
cation of these benefits has been made, the size and nature of the operations
and the obvious usefulness of telecommunications clearly demonstrates the
savings in operational costs, in capital investment and in inventories as
well as increased efficiency and assurance of dependability are much larger
than the small investments in providing telecommunications services. The
Corporations were:
(1) Agricultural Mechanization Corporation (AMC)
(2) Trade Corporation 1 (TCl)
(3) Industrial Planning Corporation (IPC)
(4) Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC)
(5)  Movement Control Committee (MCC)
(6) Inland Water Transport Corporation (IWTC)
(7) Road Transport Corporation (RTC)
(8) Tourism Corporation (TC20)
(9)  Burma Broadcasting Service (BBS).
3.        Attachment 1 to this annex summarizes the functions of the
Corporations and the size of their operations, identifies the officers inter-
viewed, and records the main specific points made in each interview.
Conclusions from the Interviews
4.        The managers interviewed were unanimous in asserting that general
operation of their enterprises was seriously impeded by the present poor and



ANNE.X 7
Page 2 of 2 pages
deteriorating state of the telecommunications service. Waiting times on
successful trunk calls and the number of calls which cannot be connected at
all are increasing (see Attachment 2). They were sure that the improved
services envisaged through the project would bring significant improvement
in efficiency and effectiveness in their fields.
5.        The summary of the interviews in the attachment shows quite clearly
that the managers of these important corporations see lack of good telecom-
munications inhibiting them in the areas of resource utilization; knowledge
of market requirements; coordination of activities; provision of raw material
to industry; purchasing and collection of agricultural and industrial products;
maintenance of agricultural machinery, motor vehicles, boats, etc., and
industrial machinery; and distribution of commodities. The attachment also
shows the considerable size of operations of these entities confirming that
the benefits from any improvement in efficiency will be substantial.
6.        The interviews covered only a sample of the enterprises in Burma
but it is obvious that the difficulties identified and the gains to be made
from the project would apply in similar measure to all enterprises and
services whether government or private and whether large or small.
7.        The interview with the Burma Broadcasting Service identifies a
substantial benefit which will be obtained as a by-product of the project.
It will facilitate wide coverage of Burma, with radio broadcasts for which
good reception will be obtained with cheap receivers.
February 28, 1975



ANIJEX 7
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 13 pages
1. AGRICULTURE MECHANIZATION CORPORATION (AMC)
Functions and Scope of Operations
1.1       AMC is responsible for the management of government-owned tractors
and irrigation pumps which entails planning, procurement and distribution
including leasing to cooperatives; training of farmers and workers; main-
tenance; and procurement and distribution of spare parts and fuel.
1.2       The organization has two divisions with headquarters in Rangoon
and Mandalay each responsible for stations spread over Burma. The table shows
the scale of their operations.
68/69    69/70     70/71
Tractor stations                88       88        88
Number of tractors           6,615    6,216     6,365
Agriculture tractors
AMC                        3,958    3,241     3,391
(Cooperatives)               (52)  (1,555)   (2,055)
Average field hour
per tractor (hour)           313      313       326
Average acre ploughed by
tractor (acre)               175      186       202
Official Interviewed
1.3       Managing Director.
Main Information Obtained
1.4       (i)  At present only 56 of the 88 tractor stations have telephone
facilities and trunk calls are generally subject to long delays even in places
with telephone facilities. Problems caused thereby are:
(a) Scheduling of tractors according to farmers' plans
is difficult.
(b) Ordering of spare parts and fuel and obtaining of
help for repair tasks beyond the local staff have to
be arranged by messenger, telegraphs or mails in
many cases. This is slow and costly in the form of
lost production. For example, it often takes one
day by a messenger from a village cooperative to
reach the nearest tractor station. Location of parts
or diversion of mechanics available in one place to
Where they are needed is difficult if not impossible
to arrange in most cases. Twenty percent of tractors



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 13 pages
are not functioning properly because of lack of
spare parts.
(c) Spare parts inventories are difficult to maintain
at efficient levels due to the need to maintain parts
at most locations.
(ii) Purchasing and distribution of fuel requires close contact
with Myanma Oil Corporation.  Lack of telecommunications causes- a good deal
of waste effort by management of both organizations.
(iii)  It is proposed to reorganize the Corporation into ten divisions
with headquarters at Rangoon, Mandalay, Bassein, Akyab, Sagaing, Magwe, Pegu,
Shan, Karen and Moulmein and run the field operations from these stations.
Success of this step will depend on adequate telecommunications to permit
efficient coordination and control.



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 3 of 13 pages
2. TRADE CORPORATION 1 (TCl)
Functions and Scope of Operations
2.1       TCI is the official trader for paddy and rice in Burma.  It
purchases paddy directly from farmers and distributes rice to consumers. It
is responsible for establishing tl'  purchasing and selling prices.
1974/75 Paddy Purchase by TOl
(In thousand) Market value
baskets     (million K) No. of depots
Kachum                                   2,300         20.70          32
Karen                                      350          3.15          64
Sagaing                                 9,700          87.30         150
Tenasserim                                 500          4.50          17
Pegu                                   42,500         382.50         170
Magwe                                    1.900         17.10          76
Mandalay                                 3,5600        32.40          80
Mon                                      6,300         56.70          48
Arakan                                   5,700         51.30          53
Rangoon                                17,000         153.00          80
Shan                                        70           .63          15
Irrawaddy                              56,000         504.00         210
(basket approx. equal to
46 pounds)                           145,920       1,313.28         945
Source - Working People's Daily - December 1974.
Official Interviewed
2.2       Managing Director.
Main Information Obtained
2.3       (i)  At present most communication depends on messengers and letters.
It will not be possible to achieve real efficiency in planning, purchasing
and distribution until efficient telecommunications are available.
(ii) During the purchasing period (late November and December)
headquarters need immediate reporting from the 900 buying centers to efficiently
coordinate and control purchases.
(iii) Efficient distribution requires reliable and timely data on
consumer needs throughout Burma.
(iv) Avoidance of damage and other losses requires immediate
reporting of rains, infestation, etc. for remedial actions to be organized.



ATTACHMENT 1
Page h of 13 pages
3.  INDUSTRIAL PLANNING CORPORATION (IPC)
Functiom and Scope of Operations
3.1       IPC is coordinating 12 industrial corporations under the Ministry
of Industry. They are: Textile, Food, Ceramic,' Pharamaceuticals, Chemicals,
Metal, Paper, Petro-Chemical, Heavy, Electric Power and General Industries
Corporations. IPC is responsible for project planning; technologi.cal
planning; production planning; man power planning; material planning; economic
planning and general acdinistration. In particular, (a) procurement of raw
material and (b) distribution of final goods are its important function.
Major industries are located along the Irrawaddy from Rangoon to Mandalay. IPC
is planning and coordinating the Irrawaddy west bank development plan for the
mobilization of surplus labor in the area and the utilization of natural
resources, such as natural gas for power and for fertilizer production.
Officials Interviewed
3.2       Managing Director; Assistant Director, Foreign Relations; and
Director, Project Planning.
Main Infomziation Obtained
3.3       (i)  For production planning, daily reports from factories are very
important. Coordination of raw material procurement for these industries
depends on having accurate and up-to-date information from each factory and
this requires periodic reporting and close management liaison.
(ii) Corporations will be operated on commercial basis in the future.
They will have more autonomy and be allowed to make a profit. To make the
system work, efficient management is necessary and ready communications between
the units and with IPC will be needed.
(iii) Transportation of products depends on IWTC. Efficient arrange-
ments for boats through IWTC requires good communication between IWTC and
industries.
(iv) Developing the Irrawaddy west bank needs good communications
between newly developed areas and administrative centers. Communications
traffic is expected to increase. Furthermore, availability of good telecom-
munications will expand the areas which can be considered in planning for
industrial development.
(v) Efficient production planning and efficient distribution of
products require constant information on market requirements.
(vi) Maintenance of continuous production requires availability of
all the inputs at each of the factories and requires urgent communications
to signal and remove shortages caused by disruptions to suppliers.



ATTACHITAIIT 1
Page 5 of 13 pages
4. MYANMA OIL CORPORATION (MOC)
Operation and Scope of Operations
4.1       MOC is responsible for:  exploration for new oil resources;
refining; and distribution of final oil products (gasoline and diesel oil)
to the whole country.  Exploration of oil fields is going on in two areas.
One area is along the Irrawaddy, from Lepangdow (north of Pagan) down to
Myanaung, where at present 30,000 barrels of oil is produced daily. The other
area is the offshore exploration near Akyab. Seismic exploration is being
conducted in these areas.
Table 1 - Onshore Oil Production
Production
Known Field     20barrel/da
Lepangdow              10.0
Chauk                   1.3
Yenangyuang             3.6
Mann                   12.0
Prome                   1.5
Myanaung                2.0
30.h
Reserve - not known
Table 2 - Oil Production
(1,000 barrels)
61/62            3,638.3
64/65            3,171.6
68/69            4,973.3
69/70            4,878.3
70/71            5,166.7
Officials Intervieved
4.2       Director, Senior. Geophysicist.
Information
4.3       (i)  Exploration in remote areas requires frequent contact with
headquarters concerning material and provisions required for explorations and
for updated reports to headquarters etc. At present, all communications have
to rely on HF radio contact, which is more expensive, poorer in transmission
quality and less reliable than standard public telecommunications facilities.
(li) Efficient distribution of oil products requires considerable
iaproyeuent of teleconrinications. It is vital to have accurate, up-to-date
information available on the needs of retailers and on the availability of
supply and transportation.



ATTACHMINT 1
Page 6 of 13 pages
(iii) Organization of transport f'rom Lhe wells to the refineries
at Chauk and Rangoon and for distribution of the products throughout Bunma
requires close liaison with the transportation corporations. A great deal
of management effort could be saved and improved results could be obtained
with good telecommunications.



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 7 of 13 pages
5. MOVEMENT CONTROL COMMITTEE (MCC)
Functions and Scope of Operations
5.1       MCC is coordinating the movement of essential commodities, rice,
timber, sugar, oil, and coal, in entire Burma. It controls both private
and government productions and arranges transportation using Road Transport,
Inland Water Transport, and Railways Corporation.
Official Interviewed
5.2       Director of the Committee.
Main Information Obtained
5.3       (i)  Requests for transportation of commodities are sent to MCC,
where they coordinate among Road Transport, Inland Water Transport, and
Railways.  These requests are now mostly placed by mail and naturally there
is a delay in responding to the requests; it is impossible to avoid cases
where the consumers do not get commodities and manufacturers cannot ship goods
efficiently.  The problems will not be solved until good telecommunications are
available.
(ii) Township and Division Committees send monthly reports on what
they requested, what they sent (particularly agricultural commodities) and
what they received.  Good telecommunications are necessary to clarify reports,
to respond to emergencies and to efficiently coordinate operations.
(iii) Coordinating transportation requires efficient telecomMrni-
cation. Shipment is often not arranged in time through lack of information,
unshipped goods pile up at one station while the consumers elsewhere wait
for the same goods. With good telephone facilities, the turnover of carriers
will be improved and distribution system will work efficiently.



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 8 of 13 pages
6.  INL4ND WATER TRANSPORT CORPORATION (IWTC)
Functions and Scope of Operations
6.1       IWTC operates on Burma's major navigable water.  It provides
regular passenger and cargo services, on the Irrawaddy, the Chindwin, the
Delta, the Arakan and Moulmein.  It carries- 100% of oil produced in Burma;
every year about 300 million gallons (1 million tons) of oil produced in
M±nbu, Myanaung and Yenaunchang is transported to Chauk and Rangoon (Syriam)
refineries. Then refined oil products are shipped to Prome, Mandalay and
Bassein by IWTC. It also carries two thirds of cement (2/3 of 200 thousand
tons a year) produced in Thayet to Mandalay and Rangoon. About 300 thousand
tons of rice is shipped to Rangoon every year from the lower Irrawaddy-Delta
area then part is reshipped to upper Burma, via Prome and Mandalay on the
Irrawaddy.
Table 1 - Freight Carried by IWC
Ton (1.000)        68/69    69/70    70/71    71/72    72/73
Rice                  201       197      280      315       114
Cement                109       121      132      148       175
Petroleum             782       826      906    1,060    1,091
Ton miles (1,000)
Rice               37,285   46,407   61,644   71,272   19,943
Cement             22,683   25,996   30,181   32,437   38,473
Petroleum         153,546  143,928  162,575  225,000  249,642
Table 2 - Transportation by IWTC
(In thousand)        68        69       70       71        72
Passenger - miles 264,026 210,930 225,541 230,381 213,969
Freight ton miles 342,406 334,157 396,650 411,900 375,544



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 9 of 13 pages
Table 3 - Transportation of Oil Products
(Provenance/destination)
Tonnage (1,000)
Crude Oil                    71     72   73 (6 months)
Yenaunchang/Chauk         164.9  156.2        69.4
Myanaung/Syriam            227.6  141.2       41.5
Minbu/Chauk                 93.3  101.2       66.0
Minbu/Syriam               197.0  313.0      145.2
Petroleum
Chauk/Tiayet                51.3   54.8       17.8
Syriam/Prome                29.3   22.8        6.3
Syriam/Mandalay             28.2   20.2        5.6
Chauk/Mandalay            125.5  132.2        56.8
Syriam/Bassein              13.2   18.9        7.9
Official Interviewed
6.2       Director, Planning.
Information
6.3       (i)  IWTC is controlling the movement of their boats from their
headquarters in Rangoon through key stations such as Prome, Mandalay and
Bassein. For its daily operation, waiting time for telephone service is
intolerably long.  They cannot utilize their vessels efficiently when it takes
two to three hours to call even key and important stations such as Prome and
Mandalay; others take a much longer wait. For example, very often it is not
possible to divert a boat for an unscheduled stop to pick up extra cargo,
because of the poor telecommunications.
(ii) When boats fail or other emergencies occur, immediate infor-
mation is required for management to make alternative arrangements and notify
shippers and customers, to arrange for repair parts and to take any other
steps to minimize damage and losses.
(iii) General operations of the Corporation are hampered by the very
limited and delayed telephone service.



ATTACF]M2NJT 1
Page 10 of 13 pages
7. ROAD TRANSPORT CORPORATION (RTC)
Functions and Scope of Operations
7.1       RTC is responsible for transportation of both passenger a   freight.
In 1974 for freight transportation, there were 23 branch stations opcrating
a total 2,427 trucks. RTC covers the country from Myitkina, Lashio to Bassein
and Moulmein with its major operations being along Rangoon - Tourrseo -
Meiktida - Mandalay and Rangoon - Magwe - Kyankpadauny - Mandalay road system.
Operation along this route accounted for 56.9% of the total operation of RTC
in 1973/74. The Rangoon - Maglwe - Mandalay route covers the Irrawaddy east
bank where major industrial plants are located.
Table 1 - Frei ht ton-milesge by RTC
(in thousand)
1970/71            80,oO5
1971/72            80,784
1972/73            84, 112
1973/7h1           32,777
Table 2 - RTC - Freight Tonnage of Major Products
(in thousands tons, six months of 1973/74)
Rice                91.2
Paddy               18.0
Sugarcane           56.4
Sugar               12.8
Timber               9.1
Oil                 41.2
Road Metal           7.5
Others             409.7
645 .9
/ Data for six months only.



ATTACAMENT 1
Page 11 of 13 pages
Table 3 - RTC - Branch Stations and Ton-mileage of Freight
(six months of 1973/74)
Ton-mileage
No. of   Conveyed    Utilization ratio  Freight Revenues
Trucks  (Thousand)    Ton-mile/truck        (K Thousand)
South Okkalapa      203     2,463            12.1              2,017
Kamayut             159     1,367             8.7              1,737
Rangoon             230     6,484            28.2              3,275
Lashio               79       834            10.5                778
Kalay               100       190             1.9                642
Tounggyi            445     2,345             5.2              5,616
Myitkyina           137       680             4.9                499
Mandalay            299     2,794             9.3              2,162
Moulmein             85     1,009            11.9                776
Kamaung              10         9             0.9                 NA
Toumgoo             115     2,763            24.0                984
Akyab                19        94             4.9                227
Minhla              122     2,891            23.7              1,287
Pakokko              75       559             7.4                454
Kyaukpy               8        13             1.6                 NA
Sandoway             17        25             1.5                146
Meiktila             72     2,840            39.4              1,901
Thaton               16       240            16.0                 NA
Bassein              45       456            10.1                209
Magwe                79     2,506            31.7              1,133
Shwebo               50       585            11.7                748
Kyaukpadaung         46     1,274            27.7                 NA
Padaung              16       344            21.5                569
Total    2,427    32,t777
Official Interviewed
7.2       Director, Planning.
Information
7.3       (i)  RTC is running an operation for which good, prompt co=muni-
cation is vital for efficiency. Trucks are not fully utilized at the moment
because of lack of efficient telecommunications. Vehicles often return to
the base empty while there are cargoes waiting on the road to be picked up
for immediate shipnent. Only efficient telecommunication will enable RTC
to closely control their trucks and achieve high utilization.
(ii)  Maintenance service is impeded because of inefficient tele-
communication, (a) when trucks need repair on the road, sending for a repair
team is often delayed because no telephone service is available at hand,
(b) station management have to use messengers a great deal in carrying out
their tasks with considerable waste of time and effort. For example, at
Rangoon station, where 230 trucks are stationed, unnecessary errands amount
to 30-40 a day because of lack of telecommunication.



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 12 of 13 pages
8. TOURISM CORPORATION (TC20)
Functions and Scope of Operation
8.1       TC20 is responsible for tourism promotion and planning, and for
hotel accommodations throughout Burma.
Table 1
Number of Tourists
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73
October-December         768    2,282    3,575    4,035
January-March          1,238    2,883    3,744    4,664
April-June             2,021    2,431    2,h00    2,878
July-September         22826    2,699    3,390    4o084
Total       6,853   10,295   13,051   15,661
Table 2
Amount of Foreign Currencies Exchanged
By Tourists
(Kyat in thousand)
1969/70                3,855
1970/71                6,156
1971/72               10,408
1972/73               10,934
Officials Interviewed
8.2       Managing Director, Director Planning.
Main Information Obtained
8.3     . (i)  Tourism in Burma has great potential as an earner of foreign
exchange. To encourage tourism the Government has extended tourist visas
from three to seven days and has increased the tourist foreign exchange import
allowance to US$500 equivalent. TC20 is promoting and developing Pagan,
Mandalay, Tounggyi (Inle lake) and Ngapali (seaside resort), but improved
telecommunications is vital for success because (a) travel and accommodations
arrangement are difficult to arrange and more difficult to rearrange without
good telecommunications; (b) tourists are reluctant to go to places without
adequate telecommunications to help ensure certainty of accommodation and
their well-being.
(ii) At present,facilities are completely inadequate. For example,
Pagan is reached by only one trunk line.



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 13 of 13 pages
9. BURMA BROADCASTING SERVICE (BBS)
Functions and Scope of Operations
9.1       BBS is the sole broadcasting corporation in Burma.  It operates
only from Rangoon with two medium wave transmitters (50 kw) and three short
wave transmitters. Major program from BBS is for peasants, workers and the
youth.
Officials Interviewed
9.2       Managing Director, Program Director.
Main Information Obtained
9.3       (i)  With the cooperation of other ministries, such as Agriculture
and Education, BBS is broadcasting-educational programs to peasants, farmers,
workers and the youth.
(ii) In particular, programs to farmers are coordinated by Peasant
Program Comuittee which consists of specialists from government agencies
related to agriculture. The Committee decides what should be broadcast in
order to promote agriculture production. The program typically deals with
information on use Of fertilizer, pesticide; use of agricultural machine such
as irrigation pumps, tractors; discussion on new developments such as high
yielding plant varieties. Response from farmers to the program is high and
BBS is receiving 3,000 letters a month asking questions about improved
farming methods. In return, BBS, after consulting the specialists from agri-
cultural departments, broadcasts answers and suggestions back to farmers.
(iii) However, medium wave radio from Rangoon does not reach many
people (no more than 100 mile radius) and most of the population receiving
the program are depending on shortwave radio. The shortwave broadcasting has
the following disadvantage compared with medium wave; (a) it is less reliable
and less clear; (b) shortwave radio receivers are more expensive; and (c) the
region which can be reached is limited (less than 30% of the population is
reached effectively at present).
(iv) BBS is planning a project to expand this service. The project
intends to set up four medium wave stations at Prome, Magwe, Toungoun and
Yamethin (10 kw transmitter each) and a powerful 100 kw transmitter at
Mandalay. The cost for the project is small (about US$2 million).
(v)  The present telecommuication proJect will provide a microwave
system from Rangoon - Prome - Magwe - Mandalay, so that with small additional
cost (US$50,000) lines can be provided to relay programs from Rangoon to the
transmitting stations of the BBS project.
(vi)  The benefit from the BBS project will be very large.  Farmers
can use cheaper receivers (about 1/3 of shortwave receiver) which will save
considerable costs because of the large number of receivers - about one
million in a few years - involved. The quality of reception will be far
better. Seventy to 75% of the population will be reached.



ANNEX 7
ATTACHMENT 2
RANGOON CONGESTION
1.        Figure 1 summarizes the performance of the trunk service to and
from Rangoon since 1963 by showing the average number of effective calls per
month over these years and the average number which could not be connected
and were abandoned (ineffective calls).
2.        Because of growing demand compared with almost fixed capacity of
telecommunications facility outside Rangoon, the number of ineffective calls
are growing constantly. For incoming calls, in addition to growing demand,
the Rangoon system itself became overburdened and in recent years P&T has
been compelled to bar a part of subscribers (up to 20%) trunk service during
heavy traffic hours, thus ineffective calls have drastically increased since
1969 (see Chart 9658) Besides, system failures have been common, due to the
outdated equipment in the trunk network and in local networks outside of
Rangoon, and lack of adequate spare parts. The poor performance has dis-
couraged subscribers from using the telephone service in spite of their growing
need. Demand has thus been suppressed,' especially in recent years.
3.        The ratio of ineffective calls to effective calls for both incoming
and outgoIzg calls is increasing.  This clearly indicates the overall deter-
ioration of the system due to obsolete facilities.
4,.       If the present system is left without any further rehabilitation,
in a few years, this sector may not be able to offer even the level of less
than adequate service for keeping the acdinistrative structure together. Any
continuation of the present stagnation could very adversely affect the working
of economic sectors (transport, inaustry) and of essential economic services
(distribution).



RANGOON TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Trunk Calls
Efetive| .
50,000
40,000                               incomingi
I   I       I      outgoir3         I
9wO 000t<,
8,000
7000A s                                         t 
1963~~~~~ 196   I96         196         16I98                   16           90         17            92         1
Iod \I
3.000                                                                                                                r-A____
7,000
1963       1964         1965        1966        1967        1968        1969        1970        1971        1972         1973
World Bank-9658






ANNEX 8
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECCJOUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Demand for Telephone Connections
1.        The Burma telecommunications entity has maintained over the years
a list of customers waiting for service in the 13 largest cities only. This
record does not represent all of the unsatisfied demand in those places since
potential customers have not only been deterred by the long waiting time but
also have been actively dissuaded from applying.
2.        In order to show the conservative nature of the network exnansion
proposed in the project, this record of waiting applicants only in the 13
towns was used to represent the unsatisfied demand for telephone service in
all Burma in assessing the historical demand for telephone service (subscribers
served plus waiting applicants). Chart No. 9505 records the resulting figures
and shows an extrapolation of them by an exponential curve of best fit as an
estimate of future demand. It wil1 be seen that even this conservative
estimate gives a level of demand exceeding the network capacity available at
the end of the project (end FY79) by about 8,000 DELs.
3.        Also shown on the chart is another projection which is considered
more realistic, though still conservatire.  It is based on the experience of
many countries that have passed through the current level of development im
Burma and assumes that demand for ser7ice doubles within five years (14%
annual growth of demand). On this basis unsatisfied demand at the end of the
project (end FY79) would be far larger - about 28,000 DELs.
4.        But the real need for telecomunication services is much greater
than the levels being discussed here. Generally, the Bunmese population has
no experience of what good quality telecommmnications would do. for the enter-
prises and social activities in which they take part. History in other
countries shows that demand will rise as these possibilities are demonstrated
to them with system improvement. Another demand generating factor is that
the utility of the system grows with size. Figure 9657 shows how systems in
the more developed countries have grown over the years in response to this
growing demand for service. It will be seen that most of the developed nations
were more developed telephone-wise in 1900 than Burma is today as measured by
the number of main stations per 100 of population; a time when economic and
business management were far simpler than they are today.
March 3, 1975






DEMAND FOR DIRECT TELEPHONE
EXCHANGE LINES
10
8 ~    ~     _   _  _   _                                               I             ____
MORE LIKELY
6                                                                                GROWTH OF
DEMAND
5                                                ~~~~~ ~~_ __           .
5
EXTRAPOLATION       -. -         --
4                                                           OF DEPRESSED  _                           -.
DEMAND
NUMBER
OF
DELS                                                                      - -         ,
3                       RECORDE -D DEMAND                                           ______________l___
(X10o)                           (DEPRESSED)
PROPOSED PROVISION
1966   67     68     69      70     71      72     73      74     75      76     77      78     79      80
World Bank-9505






DEVELOPMENT OF TELEPHONE DENSITY, 1900-1974
Main statons
per 100 inhabitants
Dr                                                                                                      Semi-log scale
50                                                     _--  Sweden
40                                                           __ .   _._  __               _ ____ u
4--.-.Suisse
30                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~New Zealand
30    __- _.* _-_ __ .                             _                                                  _                 ,        _           Danemark
.*               .l,~~~*' Jpan
Au -./-Aastral la
20  -_________  _____  -____                                ,a#.                        *,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ....- ~~~Pays-Bas
20                                                                                                               * i.4-United Kingdoar
06t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                                 .n/4    - 
/                                                                C.C.l.TT. 2145~~~ 'a
109  ___.         _    .   _ =  ____F______. ________.   _____.___   .                           =    _   _ _ __ _ _._             uFrance
.orl uanEspana
9
~Argentina
6
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,
0.69____                                                                                 ___                  __
0.6 8____    _____________                                                                    _____
0.1                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.C.IT.T. 2145
.09                                                                                                                                  Burn_____
1900             1910            1920              1930             1940            1950             1960            1970    1974
World Bank-9657






ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2 pages
BURMA
POSTS AND TELBCOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELBCOMMUNICATIONS DEVELOIMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return
Net Benefits and Rate of Return
1.        Capital expenditures related to the project are based on 1975
prices and exclude taxes, duties and price contingency allowances. The cost
and benefit streams are as follows:
Fiscal      Capital    Operating                  Net
Year     Expenditure     Costs     Revenues  Benefits
(in thousands of K's)
1976        3,886          270         438     (3,718)
1977       35,691          906       1,430    (35,167)
1978       84,556        1,965       3,894    (82,627)
1979       14,306        4,198      11,620    ( 6,884)
1980          284        6,257      30,999     24,458
1981       (1,559)       6,831      39,431     34,159
1982-84    (1,559)       6,831      46,174     40,902
1985-98       -          6,831      46,174     39,343
1999      (14,028)       6,831      46,174     53,371
The rate of return on the project, defined as the discounted rate which equal-
izes the streams of net benefit as shown above is 21.55%.
Benefit Period
2.       The period of benefits of the project extends from FY76, when the
first disbursement will be made, to FY99 when, on average, the plant provided
under the project will have completed its useful life in accordance with the
present composite depreciable life of 23.5 years.
Theft of Line Wire
3.       A negative investment of K 1,559 thousand has been included for the
five year period FY80-84 to reflect, conservatively, the savings in the cost
of line wire replacement resulting from the establishment of a microwave
network and, thereby, the reduction of the theft of line wire.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2 pages
Residual Value
4.        The residual value of the capital improvements under this project
has been estimated to be 10% of the original cost value. This residual
value is expected to be available during FY99, the final year of the com-
posite life of the plant provided under the project.
Shadow Pricing
5.        The foreign exchange component of all capital expenditures and
operating material costs can be shadow-priced based on an exchange rate of
K 10.00 to US$1.00 rather than the current official exchange rate of
K 6.24 to US$1.00. The resulting rate of return will be 15.05%.
Sensitivity Alysis
6         A sensitivity analysis was performed which produced the following
results:
Rate of Returm
Revenue decrease of 10%                                19.25
Expense increase of 10%                                21.15
Capital expenditure increase of 10%                    19.85
Two year delay in completion of project                17.75
Unfavorable combination of conditions
including:
(i) 10% revenue decrease
(ii) 10% operating expense increase
(iii) 10% construction cost increase
(iv)  Two year delay in completion of project       14.55
April 22, 1975



EXISTING ORGANIZATION - BURMA POSTS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CORPORATION
|   MANAGING      
|   DIRI :TOR
STORES DEPT.                         ACCOUNTS DEPT.               ||MANAGING DECO'S                                                                T.                        POTA DE-P'"T.~
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ATO                                                                                         ENIE IN Cl0 
C T-O.          U. BURMA           RANGOON
RAN_UN           MANDALAY           NETWVORK
C.T.O.  L. BURMA          ARAKEN
MANOALAY  RANGOON          ~STATE
OSEAS &      ~CARRIER
l  M IC ROWAV E  l   C AR RDIVISION
Wo-d   k 6U. BURMA
L. 8URMA |
World Book-BEOB






ANNEX 10
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECONMUNICATIONS CORPORATIONI
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVEWFMENT PROJECT
Representative Tariffs at November 30, 1974
K      US$
1. Telephone
Monthly rental-
Private subscribers                                20.00   3.21
Government subscribers                             37.50   6.01
Internal extension                                    8.00   1.28
Local call charge - private subscribers                .10    .02
Installation charge - private subscribers            60.00   9.62
Deposit - private subscribers                       100.00  16.03
Trunk call charges (per 3 minutes)
up to 10 airline miles                               .50    .08
10 to 25 airline miles                              1.00    .16
25 to 50 airline miles                              2.00    .32
over 50 airline miles                               3.00    .48
2. Telegrams
First 16 words in Burmese or first
8 words in English                                   .60    .10
Each additional word                                   .10    .02
Surcharge on each telegram
Ordinary                                             .25    .04
Express                                              .50    .08
March 3, 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2 pages.
BURMA
POSTS AID TELECOVIUNICATIONS CORPORATION
TgLECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Statement of Financial Position
(millions of Burmese Kyats)
Actual                                         Forecast
Sept. 30                                       March 31
As of:                        1973         1974      1975       1976      1977       1976       1979      190C       190T
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                     1050o        105.6      108.2     114.2      131.1      193.4     277.9      332.9      447.9
Less:  Accumalated depreciation    62.6          64.5       69.0      73.7       78.9       85.8      95.8      108.8      125.4
Net plant in service             -72.1         117.       39,      -b0C-5      52.2     107,6    172-.l       22'4.1    322.5
Plant under construction                -           -          -         4.2       38.9       90.1      50.4       87.3       71.7
Total Fixed Assets                142.14       4          3,           -7      91.1     1977       232.5      M7        39i -
Current Assets
Cash and consolidated ifnd             17.6        17.2       31.4       31.2      13.2       10.1       9.1        6.9        6.8
Subscriber accounts receivable        15.1         16.3       13.8      12.9       12.7       12.9      14.2       17.0       19.5
Materials and gupplies                  9.0         8.7        8.9        9.8      10.0       10.5      11.0       11.5       12.1
Other current assets                    3.8         3.7         .2        .2         .2         .3        .3         .4         .4
Total Current Assets              45           459                 - 353 7     36.1       33.8     -3UTh      -3 -T-    78
Total Assets                      87.9         87.0       93.5      98.8      127.2      231.5     267.1      347.2    1433.0
LISB LITIES
. quity
Capital-beginning of period           67.3         73.2       75.7      82.4       88.3       92.8      96.5       99.5      110.3
Current year's income                   5.9         2.5        6.7       5.9        4.5        3.7        3.0      10.8       15.2
Total E:quity                      73.2        7          Sw9                           -7SC5      *Y75       ITZ77     IU3
Long-term Debt
Rr_oposedIDA credit                     -           _          _           .2      25.1      106.4     128.5      128.3      125.4
Local financing                         -           -          -          -         -         20.0       20.0      26.0       34.o
Fbture financing                        -           -          -          -         -          -        10.8       66.o      126.3
Total Long-term Debt                --                                 7      -:I        M7        159.3      2          2857
Other Liabilities
Customer deposits                       2.7         2.7        2.7        2.8       3.0        3.1       3.5        4.1        4.8
Provident fund                          1.0         1.0        1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1       1.2        1.2        1.2
Total Other Liabilities             3.7         3.7      -B          3.9        4.1      -7.2 7- 47              3      -_. _-_
Current Liabilities
Income Tax                             10.7         7.1        6.8       5.9        4.6        3.8        3.0      10.7       15.2
Other                                    .3                      65        .5        .6         .6        .6         .6         .6
Total Current Liabilities         11.0          7.                   6.4       T_       -E         --7C     -TM   4 T78
Total Liabilities                 87.9         87.0       93.5      98.8      127.2      231.5     267.1      347_       433.0
Debt-equity ratio                                                                     21/79      57/43      62/38     67/33      69/31
February 12, 1975



ANNEX m.
Page 2 of 2 pages
BTRMA
POSTS AND TELONIMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TMECOINICATIONS DFIT)MET PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions on the Statement of Financial Position
1.        Plant under construction - value at end of each fiscal year was
detesmined on basis of engineering estimates of plant not commissioned at
that date.
2.        Subscribers accounts receivable - estimated values at year end
initially refleet reductions relating to settlement of government accounts
followed by increases relating to increased subscribers and billing amounts.
3.        Material and supplies - estimated values reflect increases relating
to growth of values of plant in service giving consideration to the write-off
of obsolete material presently included in inventory values.
4.        Customer deposits - estimated values reflect growth in number of
non-government subscribers.
'.        Provident fund - estimated values reflect increased number of
employees and increased salary levels.



ANNEX 12
_URA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPFOATION
TELECOITMINICATIONS BRkNCK
Statement of Sources and Applications of Fnunds
(millions of Burmese Kyats)
For Fiscal Year Pnded March 31:                   1975    ]1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation
Net income before interest                            6.7       5.9      5.6        9.9       14.6       26.6       36.1
Depreciation                                          4.5      4.7       5.2        6.9       10.0       13.0       16.6
Total Internal Generation                         ___2      1         -10. in__ in__                             _
Borrowings
Proposed IDA Credit                                    -         .2     24.9       81.3       22.1        2.5         -
Local cost financing                                   -         -        -        20.0         -         6.o        8.0
Future foreign exchange financing                      -         -        -          -        10.8       55.2       60.3
Total Porrowings                                     -                -  . 77    0          32.9       63.7      h___
Customers Deposits                                       -         .1       .2         .1         .4         .6         .7
Provident Fund Contribution                              .1        -        -          -          .1
Total Sources                                     11.3      10.9      35.9      118.2       580o     103.9      121.7
tpplications of Funds
Construction                                            2.6     10.2      51.6      113.5       44.8       91.9       99.L
Debt Service
Amortization
Proposed IDA Credit                                 -        -         -         -           -         2.7        2.9
Total Amortization                              -        _         _         _                     2.7        2.9
Interest
Proposed IDA Credit                                 -        -        1.1        5.6        9.9      11.1       10.9
Local cost financing                                -        -         -          .6        1.2       1.4         1.8
Future foreign exchange financing                  -         -         -          -          .5        3.3       8.2
Total Interest                                  - 6.2                                               3         8
Total Debt Service                              -                                                            7TT  7I
Increase (Decrease) in Working Cap al
Cash                                                14.2       (.2)   (18.0)       (3.1)      (1.0)      (2.2)       (.1)
Other than cash                                      (5.5)       .9      1.2        1.6        2.6       (4.3)      (1 4)
Total Increase (Decrease) in TWorking Capital _T7             .7    (163Y                   T        T;77        Q____
Total Applications                               11.3      10.9      35.9      118.2       58.0     103.9      121.7
Debt Service Coverage                                      -         -       9.8        2.7        2.1        2.1        2.2
February 12, 1975



ANNEX 13
Page  of 6 pages
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECOMV1=CATIONS CORPOPATION
TELECOWr9UNICATIONS BRANCH
Income Statement
(millions of Burmese Kyats)
Actual                                 Forecast
September 30                                March 31
For the Fiscal PeriDd:                  1971   1972   1973     1974j l975  =97 7 977   1978   3.79   1980   19o1
Operating Revenues
Telephorne                                  19.3   18.8   19.2      9.3   20.0  20.3  22.1   24.3  29.0  40.2  49.9
Telegraph                                    8.4    9.7    9.6       2.7    9.0    9.1    9.2    9.3    9.3   12.1   15.7
Telex                                         .6    1.1    1.1        .7    1.2    1.4    1.5    1.7    1.9    3.3    5.0
Other                                         .9    1.0    2.3       .6   1.5    1.5    1.6    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8
Proposed tariff increase                            -    -         _             -       _         4    8 9     1 IL 9
Total Operatinig Revenues                29.2   30.6   32.2     13.3   31.7   32.8  34.4   42.2   17   75.0    X
Operating Expenses
Operational costs                            8.3    8.9    8.7       3.9    9.9   12.3  14.6   16.8   17.9   19.1   20.3
Maintenance and repairs                      1.2    1.2    1.3       .6    1.1    1.2    1.4    1.6    1.8    2.0    2.3
Deoreciation                                  -      -     3.6      1.8    4.5    4.7    5.2    6.9   10.0  13.0  16.6
Administrative Cos.s                         1.0    1.0    2.0       2.1    2.7    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.4    3.6    3.8
Total Operating Expenses                 10.5   11.1   15.6      8.4   18.2   21.0   24.2   28.5   3.1   37.7  I1.0
Net Operating Income Before
Taxes                                       18.7   19.5   16.6      4.9   13.5   11.8   10.2   13.7   17.6  37.3  51.3
Income Taxes                                     -      -    10.7       2.4    6.8    5.9    4.6    3 o   3.0  10.7   15,2
Net Operating Income                           18.7   19.5    5.9       2.5    6.7    5.9    5.6    9.9  14.6   26.6  36-1
Interest Expense                                               -                -      -     1.1    6.2  11 .6  15.8   20 .9
Net Income                                     18.7   19.5    5.9       2.5   6.7      .     4.5      .7         10      1
=    = =    =M=  -L   3   1AI
Average Net Plant in Service                    NA     NA     NA       41.8  40.2   39.9  46.3   79.9  144.9 203.1  273.3
Annual Rate of Return                           NA     NA     NA      12.0   16.7  14.8   12.1   12.4   1041  13.1  13.2
Operating Ratio Before Income Tax %             NA     NA     48        63     57     64     70     68     65      50    46
1/ Fiscal year revised to April-March from October-September. The
fiscal period 1974 was a six months period from October 1, 1973 to
March 31, 1974.
February 12, 1975



BURMA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
TELECCMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Telephone Revenues
(millions of Burmese Kyats)
Year Ended   Six Months
Sept. 30   Ended Mar. 30                       Year Ending March 31
For the Fiscal Period             1973                                         1977               1979      1980      1981
Rental                              -                      9.748   10.259    7.639    8.673   10.362   13.073   16.583
9.514        4.774        -         -         -        -         -         -         -
Installation charges        )       -             -          .038     .071      .141      .197     .413      .607      .703
Local call charges                1.821          .884      1.805    1.805    5.438    6.276    7.287    9.338   11.489
Long distance charges             7.692         3.528      8.160    8.405    8.657    8.917   10.734   16.959   20.864
International call charges         .159          .090        .220     .227      .234      .241     .248      .255      .263
TOTAL                            19.186        9.276      19.971   20.767   22.109   24.304   29.044   40.232   49.902
February 10, 1975
0 w
oq



POSTS AND TELECOlMJlNICATIONS COR POHATIOOE
TELECOTJNIICAIIONBS BRP2I Ht
Estimated Expense Detail
(rillions of Burmese Kyats)
Six Mon ths
Year Ended      Ended
Sept.30        March 31                            Year Endirig March 31
For the Fiscal Period:                    1973           1974       1975      197b       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
Operational Costs
Direct labor                                           7.754         3.044      7 .29      9.340    11.372    13.264    18.o61    14.933    15.902
Variable costs
Power                                                 .303         o67         .,67       .372       .378       .3.7 .412'            .437       .459
Travelling allowance                                  .169         .105       .24+        .390       . 347      .394       .433       .L77       .525
Total variable                                    .,72   .6     11 .                   6 72       .725      .791   , .50    g 1l4
Fixed costs
Establishmen .                                        -            .457       1.4-,    1.684      1.925      2.152      2.309      2.482      2.672
Transport charges                                     .117        .047         .16 L      .173       .135       .Il8       .212       .27        .213
Other fixed charges                                   .301        .113         .36?       .389       .412       .8437      .403       .499       .5 20
Total fixed                                      .717          T677       1.969      2.246      2.522       2.787      2.94       3.200      3.35
Total Operational Costs                       8.644        3.833       9.7.72    !2.255      ll. 619    1r,842    17.895    19 052    20.321
M4airntenance and Repairs
Direct p-urchses
Iriland                                              -             .o84 .8, .91                                                        _ .15  2 ,  6 2  0  .3
Overseas                                              -            .282        .51        . 597      .637 .7J6,             847           3       .120
Total direct purchases                            -             . 3__       .634      .729        .89        .964      1.109      I1 2-m5    1,467
Outside labor charges                                    -                       _ .133 ,153 _22A                             .233 76.
Indirect materials                                       -            .126        .02L0       022       .025       .029       ,0 j9    __3 _7
Operational maintenance
Buildings                                             .296         -           .200       .2'16      .233       ,252       .272       .2,4       .318
Vehicles, office equipment, fsrniture               1.029          ,075         060       .O65       .07v       .076       .082o      "'A            5
Total operation maintenance            1,325                    .075       Tn7       T57T         730.3    . 2    . 375          -             103
Administrative maintenance
Buildings                                                                      .035       .040       .045       .050        055        crn       o065
Office equipment, fujrniture, vehicles                                         .031       .02        .013       .015       o016       .018       . C
Total administrative maintenance                  -            -            .W5  oo6                                    .071       .O8 077O7
Total Maintenance and Repairs                 1.325         .567       1: ,3      1.237      1.401      1.588      1.799      2. 'O,34
Administrative Costs
Pay and allowances                                      3.418        1.255       1.93       1.9L1      1.934      2.07,      2.156      9 2'       29332
Indirect charges
Printing and stationery                               .373         .105        .585       .616       .6B4       .759       .842       .995      1.0'58
Others                                                . 242        .732        .21         292       .327       .367       .911       .' 60
.65 *T         37                   .90       1.011            .     126  1 .    295      1 "-5
Total Administrative Cost                     2.033        2.092       2.659      2.825      3.005       3.199      3-109      3          3-7  5 33
inuary' 37, 1?75.
Id



ANNEX 13
a       f 6 pages
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECONNUNICATIONS CORPORATTOIN
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes and Assuimptions on Income Statement
Revenues
Telephone
Rental - Projected on basis of increased DELs with average rental
per DEL stimulated 3% per year beginning with FY78. Reflects
revision of government billing practice in FY77 reducing govern-
ment rental charge and billing government customers for a local
call charge at the level of tariffs used for private customers.
Installation charge - Projected on the basis of increased DELs
with average charge per DEL stimulated 3% per year beginning
with FY78.
Local call charge - Projected on the basis of increased DELs.
Reflects revision of government billing practices in FY77 when
the regular local call charge is to be initiated for all govern-
ment calls. Average charge per DEL estimated to be K 210 in
FY77; K 220 in FY78 and 79; and K 230 in FY80 and 81.
Long distance charges - Projected on basis of ITU traffic study
which estimated traffic in erlangs (units Ir measuring traffic)
for FY79. This traffic data was converted to billable minutes
and then to revenues. Subsequent years' revenues were then
estimated based on increased DELs with average charge per DEL
stimulated 3% per year beginning with FY78.
Telegraph - Projected on the basis of very small annual increases
until 1980 when telegraph revenmes were stimulated 30% reflecting
the proposed project and the number of machine locations being
increased from 10 to 30.
Telex - Projected on the basis of very small annual increases until
1980 when national telex and gentex are introduced. Revenues
stimulated 75% in 1980 and 50% in 1981.



ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6 pages
Proposed Tariff Increases
1978 and subsequent years - A revenue increase is projected at
86% on local call charge revenue.
1979 and subsequent years - An additional revenue increase is
projected based on the following stepped long distance tariff.
Airline miles           Three minute charge
0-50                      K 1.50
51-100                     K 3.00
101-200                     K 4.50
201-400                     K 6.00
over-400                     K 7.50
Operational Costs
Direct Labor
1975-78 - Projected on the basis of planned increases in staff
and a 3% annual increase in wages in accordance with past exper-
ience and current budget instructions.
1979-81 - Projected on the basis of a 6% increase per year.
Variable Costs - Travelling Allowances
1975-78 - Projected at experienced cost per employee.
1979-81 - Projected at 10% increase per annum.
Fixed costs - establishment - Projected by use of same method as
used for direct labor.
Fixed costs - transport - Projected on the basis of an increase of
7% per year.
Fixed costs - other - Projected on the basis of an increase of
6% per year.
Maintenance and Repairs
Direct purchase - Projected on the basis of an increase of 15%
per year.
Outside labor - Projected on the basis of an increase of 15% per
year.



ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6 pages
Indirect materials - Projected on the basis of an increase of
15% per year.
Operational maintenance - Projected on the basis of an increase
of 8% per year.
Administration maintenance - Projected on the basis of an increase
of K 5,000 per year for buildings and 10% for other than buildings.
Depreciation - Calculated at an anticipated composite rate of
4.25%.
Administrative Costs
Pay and allowances - Projected on the basis of an increase of 4%
per year.
Indirect - printing and stationery - Projected on the basis of an
increase of 11% per year.
Other - Projected on the basis of an increase of 12% per year.
Inflation
No factors for inflation has been specifically reflected in the
projections of future expenses as the Government of Burma presently
does not recognize inflation as a factor in future cost and, in
fact, avidly pursues policies to prevent and limit its occurence.
However the comparatively high increase percentage utilized for
many expense projections were designed, with the acceptance of
P&T's management, to include a factor for inflation.  As a result
of the Government policy, wage increases have been limited to 3%
per annum while expenses, such as material purchases, contract
labor, maintenance expenditure, printing and stationery, have been
increased at rates of from 10 to 15% per annum.
March 4, 1975



BUJ A
POSTS AND TELECOMKUNICATIONS CORPORATION
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Performance Indicators
(at March 31)
Actual                          Forecast
1974     1975      1976     1977      1975      17        19B0
****3*****Project Period***   *c**
Exchange capacity - Lutomatic                17,000   17,000   17,000   18,000   24,200   34,000   44,800
Manual                  10,320   10,500   10,700   11,000   11,200    7,200    7,200
Total                   27,320   27,500   27,700   29,C00    35,400   41,200   52,000
Number of DEL's                              23,042   23,643   24,774   27,016   30,042   36,200   45,000
EIchange fill                                   84%       86%       89%      93%       85%       88%       87%
Number of telephones                         29,494   30,250   31,500   34,500   38,000   46,500   57,500
Number of trunk circuits                         329      329       329       329      329       680       750
Telephone revenue per DEL
In Burmese K's                                 NA      857       859      853    1,041    1,144    i,426
In equivalent US$                              NA      137       138       137      167       183       229
Operation ratio (before income taxes) %           63        57       64        70       68        65        50
Rate of return (after income taxes) %           12.-0    16.7      14.8      12.1     12.4      10.1      13.1
Operating costs per DKt (Ks)                      NA      780       867       935       999      999      929
February 11, 1975






-H -I0000'0000 01     i    ; 0   E      E                          960                                                  0 -  bI
INDIIA                       -   A
V,   1        ,,         I4N                            I N   D  I A
ks~        ~           ~.,-.-                                  To. Siooo                  1 0
.1'~~~~~~~~~~~F
B  URTMJA O
-16 ~~~~0                                                 20                                                  CHINA 
T H A/ INl                                                                  A N A
%An4omon\if7(ACI4MER ~~~~hbr uno                        ySe  '   - '        -      bn,: 
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- RY                        R ell W AD D y   .ZWdt-E
Sc~~ ~        ~~~                ~ ~                                    _,p ,a4  2!  ,    Ct  Kj t
TH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
GRAVEL ROADS                  A n d a m a4O npo            a 
Q0                                                                                           TL SL TA I
~~~A.    ~             0-
'~ B.I%QttAR\EMAIN AtVERS                                                                            0)z TA
22-*-j'           tNER ATOA BOUNARIE                        Mo  doyvJ p     
V-SRECr t               -C'  ,iooo
iD~~~~~~~~~~~,D
auy      o f
D o   lOO   200     3DO        400160 00                                   0 2   s 
e n CF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IS'oetr                                                                                                ' 9UVWm _
o ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~ so  Ao Is LO A5 N1                                                                  D
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION                                                                                                 I9
PROPOSED MAIN TRUNK ROUTES
PROPOSES MICROWAVE RADIO ROUTEST..BNKK,
000000000 PROPOSED LOW CAPACITY RADIO ROUTES
PAVED ROADS
GRAVEL ROADS                               A,1homan0
DIRT BRADSS
SINGLE TRACK RAILWAYS
D--R--  OLRLE TRACK RAILWAYSea
-  MAIN RIVERS
- 0MOUNTAIN RANGES AND FORESTED AREAS
DIVISIONAL BOUNDARIES
-.-   NTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                                                                                 Gulf
o f
Thailand
S         lOS        200         s00        400
S       5C        Bilomolo          220     250                                                             /VO
M9les                                                                            :0                                       4
9Zv~~~                          ~           ~          ~ ~~~~~~~ ~                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Coo,    °°   dr



