CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 551 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecominunications Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 551 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 30, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 30, 1975, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORL the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation pursuant
to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time, and such terms include all schedules to such agreement; and


﻿4
(b)   "P&T" means the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation,
established and operating under the laws of the Socialist Republic of the Union
of Burma and shall include any successor or successors thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million dollars
($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than services of consultants) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1,980 or such later date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall l1ay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1 5
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1985, and ending January 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of P&T or any other person duly
authorized in writing by him is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
by P&T with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend to P&T the proceeds of the Credit under
a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, such agreement shall provide, inter alia, that P&T
shall pay periodically to the Borrower amounts representing (i) interest on the
amount relent at an annual rate of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) on the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time and (ii)
amortization of the principal amount relent over a term of twenty-four years
including four years of grace, from the date of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿6
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
P&T's properties and equipment and any relevant records and documents, except
such as may appropriately be excluded by the Borrower for reasons of national
security; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, as and when required by the Association, evidence satisfactory
to the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause P&T, not later than the beginning
of P&T's fiscal year 1976/77, to improve its accounting system by revising its
accounting procedures to make them more appropriate with an accrual system and
to meet current data requirements and thereafter to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of P&T.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause P&T to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Director General, Central Audit and
Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Council of Pyithu's Inspectors of the
Borrower; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such


﻿7
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of P&T and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause P&T:
(a)   to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by qualified and competent staff;
and
(b)   to take all action reasonably required to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of P&T's
business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall settle, in accordance with an arrangement
to  be   reached   with  P&T    outstanding  accounts   of  the  Borrower for
telecommunications services owed to P&T and ensure that charges for future services
provided to the Borrower shall be promptly paid upon billing by P&T.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that P&T charges rates for its services
in accordance with commercial principles.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause P&T to take from time to time all necessary steps as shall
be required to provide and maintain revenues from its telecommunications
operations sufficient to produce an annual rate of return of 10%.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by dividing the
net operating income of P&T from its telecommunications
operations for the fiscal year in question by the average of the
value of the net telecommunications fixed assets of P&T in
operation at the beginning and at the end of the year in question.
(ii)        The term   "value of the net telecommunication fixed assets in
operation" shall mean the gross value of such assets, less the
amount of acc,imulated depreciation, as valued from   time to


﻿8
time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation, acceptable to both the Borrower and the
Association.
(iii)      The term   "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from telecommunications
operations; and
(B)   the   operating   and   administration  expenses   of
telecommunications operations, including taxes (if any) or
any payment in lieu of taxes (if any), adequate
maintenance and straight-line depreciation but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that no debt will be incurred by or for the benefit of P&T,
unless P&T's net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such
incurrence or for any later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever net revenues are the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
incurred by or for the benefit of P&T and not cancelled, including the debt to
be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)        the term  "debt" means all debt incurred by or on behalf of
P&T, including debt assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower
for P&T, except debt incurred in the ordinary course of business
and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year
after its incurrence;
(ii)       the term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (A) under a contract or loan
agreement, on the date on which the contract or loan agreement
providing for such debt is entered into and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee shall have been entered into;
(iii)      the term "net revenues" means total revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of P&T's tariffs in effect at the time


﻿9
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and other expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, other than income
taxes, and administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv)        the term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by P&T, at the time such valuation
is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause P&T not to apply funds arising out of or obtained in connection with
its telecommunications operations for purposes other than its telecommunications
operations unless such funds are in excess of its reasonable operational, debt service
and investment requirements, including the maintenance of adequate reserves in
respect of its telecommunications operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of P&T or for the
suspension of its operations, without previous agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been amended or abrogated
without the previous mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿10
any events specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and P&T, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and P&T, respectively, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and P&T in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date August 28, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 through
4.07 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Planning and Finance or the Deputy Minister
for Planning and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry for Planning and Finance
Minister's Office Post Office
Rangoon
Bunna


﻿11
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s/ U. Lwin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                      Dollar Equivalent)
(1)  Local and trunk exchange                            6,200,000
equipment and subscriber
apparatus
(2)  Local and junction cables                           2,400,000
and line plant
(3)  Microwave and VHF/UHF                               7,400,000
systems and multipleK ing
equipment
(4)  Telex and gentex switching                            500,000
equipment and teleprinters
(5)  Vehicles, construction ma-                            260,000
chines and other miscel-
laneous equipment
(6)  Unallocated                                         4,240,000
TOTAL        21,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)  expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿13
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is P&T's development program for its fiscal years 1976-1979
and consists of:
A.    Installation of about 17,000 line units of local automatic exchange
equipment, including replacement of about 4,300 line units now in existing
manual exchanges in twelve cities, thus providing for an additional capacity
of about 12,700 line units;
B.    Installation of cable and associated distribution network equipment to enable
connection of about 12,000 new direct exchange lines and for upgrading
of the lines of the 3,400 existing subscribers connected to manual exchanges
which are being converted to automatic working;
C.    Purciase and use of subscriber apparatus including about 22,750 automatic
telephone instruments;
D.    Installation of trunk transmission facilities, including microwave radio systems
and associated multiplex equipment interconnecting the major centers of
Rangoon, Moulmein, Mandalay, Bassein and other important centers along
the Irrawaddy River, low capacity radio systems for spur routes for the
provincial centers of Akyab and Tavoy, and open wire carrier systems for
existing pole routes;
E.    Installation of automatic trunk switching centers for Rangoon and Mandalay
which will provide subscriber trunk dialing to all centers on the microwave
route having automatic service and addition of about thirteen manual trunk
exchanges at key centers in the network to give improved manual services
from and to other communities;
F.    Installation of about 120 telex and gentex exchange lines and about 80 telex
and gentex subscriber units; and
G.    Purchase of construction vehicles and assorted machines for use in local
distribution networks and miscellaneous equipment ancillaries to improve
productivity in operation of telephone and telegraph services.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    The following equipment may be procured by negotiation with the original
suppliers of the relevant existing telecommunications facilities, provided that the
terms and conditions of the contracts so negotiated for such equipment shall be
acceptable to the Association:
(a)   1,000 lines of switching equipment and associated subscriber apparatus
to complete the 10,000 line unit serving the center of Rangoon;
(b)   equipment required to enable the existing automatic equipment in
Rangoon to interwork with new equipment to be procured under paragraph I of
this Section; and
(c)   cable network accessories not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000
which have proved themselves in very wet and humid conditions and are of the
type with which the staff of P&T is familiar.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿16
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


