Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12588-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
MARCH 8, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12588 PAK
Type: SAR
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents m.y not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 30.5 (January, 1994)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July I - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYM%S USED
ADP            =      Annual Development Program
AJK                   Azad Jammu and Kashmir
ASDEO                 Assistant Sub-Divisional Education Officer
BHU                   Basic Health Unit
CBR                   Cruie Death Rate
CHW                   Community Healt'i Worker
CMC                   Coordination and Monitoring Committee for SAP
DDAC                  District Development Advisory Committee
DHO                   District Health Officer
DHS                   Director General (or Direc or) of Health Services
DLGRD                 Department of Local Government and Rural Development
DOH                   Department of Health
EAD                   Economic Affairs Division
EFYP                  Eighth Five Year Plan
EPI                   Extended Program for Immunization
FANA                  Federally Administered Northern Areas
FATA                  Federally Administered Tribal Areas
GPR                   Gross Participation Rate
ICT                   Islamabad Capital Territory
IEC                   Information, Education and Communication
IMR            =      Infant Mortality Rate
MCH            =      Mother and Child Health
MNA                   Member National Assembly
MOE                   Ministry of Education
MOH                   Ministry of Health
MPA                   Member Provincial Assembly
MPW                   Ministry of Population Welfare
MSU            =      Multi-Donor Support Unit for the SAP
NAC                   National Advisory Committee for the SAP
NEMIS                 National Education Management Information System
NFC                   National Finance Commission
NGOCC                 NGO Coordinating Council
NRSP           =      National Rural Support Program
PHED                  Public Health Engineering Department
PWD            =      Public Works Department
RHC            =      Rural Health Center
RWSS           =      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SAPCC          -      SAP Coordinating Committee
SSR                   Standard Schedule of Rates
TBA                   Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR            =      Total Fertility Rate
VFPW                  Village based Family Planning Worker



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Program and Credit Summary .....................................   i
1. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY   ..............1................ 
A. Low Social Indicators ...................................  I
B. Weaknesses in Basic Social Services ..........................  3
C. The SAP Initiative .....................................  5
D. Project Strategy: An 'Umbrella" Approach .....................  6
E. Lessons from IDA Experience  .............................  8
H. THE PROJECT  .......................................... 12
Objectives ........................................ 12
Summary of Project Description  .............                    ............ 13
A. The SAP Framework  ...................................  13
The Structure .         .        .................................... 13
Annual Agreements .......               ...........................  14
Coordination and Monitoring Mechanisms                     ....  16
Participatory Development                          . . . .   18
B. The Annual Agreement for 1993/94                           . . .    19
1993/94 Agreements on Reforms                         ....  20
Improvements Already Accomplished  ....................... 22
a. Improvements in Level of Effort and Implementation ...           .... 23
b. Improvements in Program Design ................... 23
c. Stronger Political Commitment  .................... 25
HI. COSTS, FINANCING, AND SUSTAINABELITY ..................... 26
A. Social Action Program Costs .............                                     .... 26
B. Sources of Funding for the Project - the First Three Years ....             ........ 28
C. Project Financing ..................................... 30
D. Retroactive Financing ................................... 33
E. Disbursement ........................................ 34
F. Procurement  ........................................ 37
G. Accounts, Audit and Reporting ............................. 38
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING   ........                        ..        .............. 39
A. Implementation Arrangements .............................. 39
Overall Responsibility ................................ 39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorkation.



Implementation Agreements between GOP and the Implementing
Agencies .................................... 39
The Planning, Approval, Implementation and Monitoring Cycle ...           .... 40
Supervision by IDA  ................................... 41
The Role of the Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU) ............... 42
The Implementation Plan of Reforms  ....................... 43
B. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) ........................... 43
Monitoring of SAP Inputs .............................. 44
Monitoring of SAP Impacts ............................. 45
Monitoring Institutions .....        .......................... 47
Funding Monitoring and Management ..                                           ...................... 48
C. The Participatory Development Program (PDP) ................... 48
V. RISKS AND BENErPITS  ...... ...........                         .................... 50
A. Risks ................. ........................... 50
B. Benefits .......................... 51
Primary Education ........................                                     52
Primary Health Care  ........................ 54
Population ..........................                                           55
RWSS: ........................                                                 55
VI. AGREEMENTS AND CONDIMONS ............................ 57
Key Elements of the Policy Commitnents .57
ANNEX I .....                                                                                 60
Implementation Plan ...................                                                60
ANNEX  ..161
Supervision Plan .161
ANNEX III .162
List of Documents Consulted .162
This report is based on the findings of Appraisal missions in September and November 1993. Mission
members were: John W. Wall (Task Manager); Salem Gafsi (Senior Operations Officer), Mae Chu Chang
(General Educator), Christopher Walker (Senior PHN Specialist), (SA3PH); Lea Donaldson (Senior
Project Engineer, SA3EI); Hanid Mukhtar (Economist, RMP); K. Minnatullah (Chief, RWSG-SA); Raja
Rehman Arshad (Project Advisor, RMP); Bashir Parvez (Project Advisor, RMP); Bashir ul Haq (Project
Advisor, RMP); Siraj ul Haq (Consultant, RMP); Syed Ahmed (Legal Counsel); Graeme Lee (Financial
Analyst, SA3EI) and Deepa Narayan (ENVSP). Ann Duncan (Senior Economist, former Head, MSU)
and Tahseen Sayeed (Senior Program Officer, MSU) contributed during the preparation of the Project
through the MSU. Peer Reviewers were Nancy Birdsall (former Director, DEC); M. Karcher (Chief,
(SAIPH); A. Verspoor (ESP); and Helena Ribe (AF6PH). The processing of the project was supervised
by Barbara Herz, Chief, SA3PH and Paul Isenman, Director, SA3.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
Program and Credit Summary
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:          Four Provinces, Azad Jammu  Kashmir, and federally
administered are& and territories of Pakistan; and the Federal
Ministries of Education; Finance and Economic Affairs;
Health; Planning and Development; and Population Welfare.
Amount:                 SDR 145.2 million (US$ 200.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard, with 35 years maturity
Program Description
The proposed Project would provide a multi-sector investment and maintenance credit to
strengthen implementation of Pakistan's Social Action Program (SAP). SAP is the name given
to Pakistan's overall effort to irprove basic social services over the five year period 1993/94-
1997/98. The Project would reinforce existing social sector programs and projects, whether or
not aid-financed, by focusing on a few core problems that impede implementation throughout
the social sectors. It would help finance the first three years (1993/94-1995/96) of the Program.
For planning and monitoring, the SAP is divided into constituent sub-programs. The main ones
include twelve that cover three basic social services -- primary education, primary health care,
and rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) -- in each of Pakistan's four provinces, plus the
national population program. Others cover selected federally managed health and education
programs and basic services in areas directly administered by the federal Government. The
Project would also provide US$ 6 million to improve monitoring and evaluation. It intends to
provide US$10 million to help promote community involvement and innovation in basic service
delivery with an initial allocation of $5 million and, if performance warrants, a second allocation
of $5 million.
The Government's Social Action Program, and the proposed SAP Project which would support
it, address Pakistan's relative weakness in basic social services, which the Government considers
a major shortcoming in, and constraint on, Pakistan's development. Pakistan's GDP growth has
been vigorous -- almost 6% per year in recent years. However, very rapid population growth
(about 3% annually) meanis that per capita income growth has been only half as fast. Pakistan's
health indicators and educational attainments fall far below expected values for its income levels.
Pakistan has therefore asked IDA and other donors to join now in a broad-based effort to
improve the most basic social services. Investments in basic social services will boost economic
productivity, reduce poverty, and promote smaller, healthier, and better educated families. Social
returns to investments that reach women will - especially high.
The proposed Project would take a broad-based "umbrella" approach to complement existing



programs and more narrowly focused projects because Pakistan's problems in the social services
are mainly not sector-specific but endemic, common across services and areas of the country.
These problems fall into three categories: i) implementation of social services has been
deficient; ii) design of social services has been flawed; and iii) levels of effort in social services
have been low. Underlying all three sets of problems are political considerations and insufficient
focus on the social sectors. Until now, sector- and province-specific government programs and
donor projects have addressed these core problems piecemeal, often with disappointing results.
This Project would instead simplify by cutting across sectors and provinces to identify a few
core problems that impede the social sectors as a whole. It would then concentrate attention,
resources, and political will on these core problems, thereby improving the "implementation
climate" for all programs and projects. The Project would thus complement and undergird other
IDA or donor projects -- present or future -- that focus more narrowly but in greater depth on
one sector in one or two provinces.
Improving Implementation. Existing basic social services tend to operate inefficiently. In
particular, they suffer from poor planning and budgeting techniques, delays in release and
expenditure of allocated funds, recruitment bans and excessive staff turnover, overcentralized
management of dispersed front-line services, and insufficient beneficiary participation. As a
result, sector-specific, province-specific projects often disburse more slowly and achieve less
than planned. The SAP Project would complement other projects by addressing implementation
problems common to all the basic social services or particularly important to one or two.
Solutions to many of these problems involve not just the sectoral ministries, but also the fmance
and planning ministries. The SAP Project has already led to actions thfat help relieve
implementation problems, thereby strengthening existing projects. For instance, in contrast to
history, the Government is now protecting social-sector budgets in its new fiscal retrenchment
program and has instituted mechanisms to release social-sector funds on time to line agencies.
It has hired thousands more teachers and health workers despite overall bans on recmitment.
Improving Program Design. Social services in Pakistan ought to focus more intensively and
consistently on basic or primary levels of social services, and the basic services ought to focus
more on quality and on access, especially for women and girls. The Social Action Program will
shift the focus to basic services. The SAP Project would lay particular emphasis on quality and
access, by increasing attention to inputs like books and medicines and by encouraging Pakistan
to adopt approaches that have worked in other countries. Some progress has already occurred,
for instance in designing basic services to involve beneficiaries more and to include more female
providers to serve other women and girls. The SAP Project can also highlight sector-specific
design issues, such as including more family planning in health services. It thus reinforces
sector-specific projects.
Increasing Level of Effort.  As implementation capacity expands and design improves,
Government expenditure on basic social services should rise. The SAP Project builds visibility
for the social services as a whole and focuses attention on this key level-of-effort issue. The
Project has already helped Government develop plans that are a "reach", but realistic. Total
expenditures on the basic social services will rise from 1.7% of GDP in 1991/92 to 2.6% in
ii



1997/98. The Government's share of incremental costs will rise from about 46% in 1993/94 to
59% in 1995/96 and about 69% in 1997198. Budgets for 1993/94 show increases; for instance,
the population budget is over 40% higher than the previous year's.
Political Will. By supporting the Government's SAP, the SAP Project is reinforcing politial
commitment to the social sector, by its very scope and by its reliance on annual assessments to
determine funding. Pakistan's Government gives high priority to the SAP and has already taken
important steps to fund and implement it.
Operation of the Project. The SAP Project emphasizes a continuing policy dialogue, phased
funding, and competition for resources among provinces and sectors based on performance. The
Project is based on appraisal of the first three years of the Social Action Program. But
disbursements can be made to any sub-program only after the Bank and the Government reach
agreement, through annual assessments, with those responsible for each year's more detailed
operational plans, including budgets and "implementation plans". In effect, sub-programs
compete for funds. The annual budgets cover both development (investment) budgets and
recurrent budgets. The implementation plans cover policies -- identifying problems and
specifying prior actions and measurable targets for progress that year. The assessment therefore
amounts to an expenditure and policy review. It addresses performance of programs and of aid
projects, policies, and proposed expenditure programs and draws on IDA's and other donors'
knowledge and experience from other social-sector projects that treat specific sectors in more
detail. Once agreement is reached, IDA expects to reimburse a specific share of expenditures
for that year, subject to the normal understanding that perfonnance will be adequate. If
perfonnance of a sub-program proves deficient during the year, disbursements will be reduced
by slow spending. The next year's agreement will reflect performance on programs and on
projects financed by donors as well as new plans (with prior actions and targets). Proceeding
"bottom up", IDA will help Government determine the reasons impeding implementation of
social programs and focus on them. The feasibility of the annual-agreement process was
demonstrated during appraisal, when Government and IDA agreed on the 1993/94 program,
including actions on policy and budgets that have been taken. Because the experience was good
and the fiscal year is more than half over, retroactive financing of 20% is proposed.
Project Costs, FInancing, and Sustainabilit
The first three years of the five-year SAP would cost about $4 billion (development and
recurrent costs), including increments totaling about $1.5 billion over comparable earlier
expenditures. The Government expects to contribute about $3 billion of the total (about 76%)
and to use $552 million more in existing or expected future donor assistance. It seeks funding
for the remaining gap of $418 million. IDA has reached agreement with the Government on the
framework of this three-year program, and tute SAP Project would provide $200 million, 5 % of
the total cost and about 48% of the gap. The three-year program should be seen, however, in
the context of the five-year SAP. The full program will cost $7.7 billion, including increments
of about $3.2 billion over comparable earlier expenditures. The Government expects to
contribute $5.9 billion and to use $1.1 billion more in existing or expected donor assistance. It
iii



seeks funding for a total gap of about $700 million for the five-year period. The Government
has undertaken to increase its share of increm.;%al cost fiancing from 46% in 1993/94 to 59%
in 1995/96 and 69% in 1997/98, which IDA jutiges to be well within feasible limits even under
a stringent fiscal policy. Extraordinary aid, of the type mobilized under this project, will fall
from 27% of incremental costs in 1993/94 to 12% in 1997/98. The remainder of project costs
will be provided by regular project aid that is expected to continue throughout the period. Over
time, the emphasis on community participation will encourage cost recovery and build political
support that will help sustain Government commitment.
Risks
The main risk is that so large and comprehensive a Project could over-strain the management
capacities of the Government and the supervisory resources of IDA. The Project addresses this
risk in five ways. First, it focuses on a few core issues to improve performance of basic service
programs and projects. Second, it exploits "joint products" through its structure: work done for
the Project will reinforce work done on province- and sector-specific activities and vice versa.
For IDA, this will permit dual-purpose supervisory missions. Third, it is helping to build the
Government's capacity to plan, budget, and implement. Fourth, a Multi-donor Support Unit
(MSU) has been established to help the Government with the SAP and to improve monitoring
and donor coordination. Finally, the Project has a carefully designed and agreed implementation
plan.
A second risk is that the intended reforms will not be achieved or will be seriously delayed. This
risk is addressed by unusually intensive monitoring through the MSU as part of technical
assistance to GOP; and by the phased annual release of funds based on annual agreements
reflecting performance and emphasizing prior actions and monitorable targets. Moreover, the
Project draws on lessons learned from past and existing sector-specific projects supported by
IDA and other donors, who were closely involved in Project preparations.
A third risk is that the SAP Project will undermine existing donor- and IDA-supported projects
by providing a softer option with weaker conditionality than those projects require. This risk is
addressed by treating existing aid -- or future aid, when it comes -- as "above the line" when
defining the annual funding gap that the SAP Project would help fill, thus removing the
temptation to substitute Project funds for other aid. Moreover, the Project considers performance
under other aid projects in the annual assessments of programs to determine their eligibility for
SAP Project finance. The MSU also promotes donor coordination to help prevent such problems.
A fourth risk is that Government commitment will weaken. This risk too is addressed by the
phased funding and annual agreements. It is also addressed by the broad scope and multi-
ministerial team-building emphasis of the Project. And it is addressed by giving important
oversight responsibilities to coordinating committees that include the highest levels of federal and
provincial government.
iv



A fifth risk is that the SAP, and patticularly its recurrent costs, will be difficult to sustain
because it depends heavily on donors, The Project finances recurrent as well as developmnent
costs because recurrent costs are the main costs of basic social services. These costs are
investments in human capital, in any event. Moreover, the Government will assume a using
share of total as well as recurring costs as the SAP proceeds. Although SAP expenditures will
rise to 2.6% of GDP by 1997/98, this level is wel' below levels of effort for basic social
services in comparable low-income countries and should be sustainable by the Government,
even under stringent fiscal policy. The Project will also emphasize the need for more beneficiary
contributions and cost recovery, especially in RWSS. Over time, donor financing (from both
regular projects and extraordinary aid) of incremental SAP costs will fall, from 53% in 1993 to
41 % in 1995/96 to 30% in 1997/98. If this Project does well, there could be a subsequent one
with a further decline in the share financed by donors. This is only slightly higher than the
share of costs for basic services that donors covered before the SAP began.
Consistency with Country Assistance Strategy and IDA Rationale
To reduce poverty and promote development progress in Pakistan, IDA believes the two highest
priority tasks are to secure a sound economic policy framework and to establish basic social
services. Despite the country's rapid economic growth, poverty remains widespread and rapid
population growth persists. As the World Development Report on Poverty has emphasized,
reduction of poverty requires a combination of economic incentives that promce efficient growth
and investments in "human capital" that enable people to respond as new opportunities emerge.
Pakistan has recently made a major effort to improve its economic policies. Although the
country's performance in the social sectors has been very weak compared to other countries, the
Government is now determined to move much more energetically, through the Social Action
Program to improve access and quality of basic social services to the poor. The proposed SAP
Project -- along with efforts to sustain the economic policy improvements -- therefore take the
highest priority in IDA's work on Pakistan today and fully support World Bank policy on use
of IDA funds. The SAP Project therefore fits into the Country Assistance Strategy.
Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Interventions
The Project is designed explicitly to reduce poverty and misery by attacking core problems in
implementation, design, and level of effort that now impede or prevent access to social services,
particularly for the rural poor. The poor are now disproportionately disadvantaged; the Project
would disproportionately benefit them by providing greater access to the most basic services.
The Project would especially help women and girls.
Benefits
The SAP Project would help Pakistan's Social Action Piogram redress the generic weaknesses
of basic social services by addressing core problems of implementation, design, and level of
effort that now impede the performance of those services. It would thus help expand Pakistan's
capacity to carry out social service programs. It would pave the way -- if successful -- for
v



increased IDA and donor involvement as time passes, through either traditional projects focusing
on key needs in a sector or through operations providing "program support" but addressing the
sector in more depth than the SAP Project would. Th.  "AP Project would thus help improve the
quality of basic social services and increase access, particularly for the poor and specifically
including women. It would therebv promote productivity, reduce poverty, and encourage
smaller, healthier, better educated families. It would also h'r, to slow Pakistan's exceptionally
rapid population growth. Preparations for the SAP Project have already produced demonstrable
improvements in planning and budgeting, in policy and procedures, and i-n program performance
in all four sectors and provinces.
The emphasis on greater community participation in basic services would mean that services
would be better used, better managed, and better maintained. Communities would feel a greater
sense of "ownership" and would be more likely to contribute to their costs. In addition, popular
political support for Government programs would be more likely to grow, thus enhancing
Government commitment to investments in social services.
The SAP Project would promote gains in social services that are mutually reinforcing. Healthy,
well ntourished children are better able to learn. The most effective way t.o improve children's
health is to educate their mothers, while providing better health care. Satisfactory rural water
supply and sanitation reduce the high risk of diarrheal and other water-borne diseases, and thus
complement basic health services. Demand for, and use of, family planning services rises when
women and girls are better educated and when children receive health care that increases their
chances of survival. Finally, gains in health and learning promote economic productivity.
vi



Costs of the Social Action Program
(Current US$ million and Rs million)
In Current US Dollars (Milion)   In CUrrent Rupees (Million)
Three-     Five-                Three-      Five-
Starting   Year       Year      Starting    Year      Year
Year    Program    Program      Year   Program    Program
(1993i94) (FY94-96)  (FY94-98)  (1993/94) (FY94-96)  (FY94-98)
PUNJAh)                                 LH789        3,457     16.184    57.242     112.832
Education                     362      1,259      2,434      11,023    40,276     79,455
Health                         79       260         532       2,412    8,314      17,353
RWSS                           90       270         491       2,750     8,652     16,024
SINDH                           237        782       1 471      7.204    25,031      47,998
Education                     175        578       1,096      5,335    18,497      35,760
Health                         36        105         190       1,096    3,345       6,204
RWSS                           25        100         185        773     3,189       6,034
NWFP                            157        594       1,156      4.790    19.002      37.729
Education                      99        378        736       3,024    12,088      24,016
Health                          19        99         182        579     3,156       5,956
RWSS                           39        117        238       1,188     3,758       7,757
BALOCHISTAN                      116       364        689       3.517    11659       22.503
Education                      57        168        315        1,736    5,375      10,280
Health                         23        107        218         694     3,436       7,123
RWSS                           36         89         156      1,087     2,849       5,100
PROVINCIAL SUB-TOTAL           1.)041    3.529       6.773     31.695   112.934    221,063
Education                     694      2,382       4,581     21,117    76,236     149,512
Health                        157        570       1,122      4,781    18,250      36,636
RWSS                          190        576       1,070      5,798    18,447      34,915
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR             28        104        207         837     3,319       6,772
Education                      17        65         130        524     2,076       4,236
Health                          5        20          41        164       652       1,330
RWSS                            5        18          37        149       591       1,207
FEDERAL SUB-TOTAL                88        387        751       2.667    12,377          1
Other Federal Areas            36        137        275        1,108    4,393       8,964
Education                     19         79        166        563      2,522      5,408
Healdt                         7         26         49         201      845        1,608
RWSS                          11         32         60         341     1,027       1,947
Population                     35       173         350       1,054    5,533      11,425
Commumiable Disease Control    16        66         116        475     2,099       3,773
Participatory Development Program   0     5           5          0       160         163
SAP Monitonng & Evaluation      1         6           6         30       192         196
NATIONAL TOTAL                 1.156     4.020       7 731     35.200   128         252.35
Vii



Sources of Funding for the SAP in FY93/94-95196
(Current US$ million)
Total    %
Government's internal resources     3.050   75.9
Existing/expected aid                552   13.7
Program Assistance                   313
IDA (SAP Project)                    200    5.0
ADB                                  100   - 2.5
Government of the Netherlands         13    0.3
Additional Assistance to be Mobilized  105    2.6
Total                           4,020  100.0
Disbursements
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(USS Million)
1993/94    1994/95   1995/96
Annual Disbursements     50         80         70
Cumulative Disbursements  50        130       200
viii



SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT (FY94-96)
I. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
1.1       Pakistanhas achieved vigorous GDPgrowth, averaging 5.7% over 1982/83-1992/93.
This growth reflects strong performance in agriculture (growing at 4% annually), in
manufacturing (growing at 7%), and in energy. But the population is increasing at 3% annually
-- faster than in any other large country in Asia. Thus annual per capita income (now about
$400) has grown only half as fast as GDP, and poverty is widespread. Most families are large,
poorly educated, undernourished, and unhealthy. Although health indicators and educational
attainments have improved over the past twenty years, they generally remain below the expected
levels for countries of comparable income, especially for women and girls. Sustaining the recent
pace of progress, much less accelerating it, will be difficult. Pakistan will have to adhere to its
recent fiscal reforms to achieve greater discipline, with more effective and broad-based taxation.
It will have to pursue broader economic reforms that encourage international competition. It will
need to expand its infrastructure. And it will need to develop an educated, healthy populace and
reduce its rapid population growth. The proposed multi-donor SAP Project would address this
last set of objectives.
A. Low Social Indicators
1 2       In education, the differences between Pakistan and other low-income countries are
striking. The female literacy rate in Pakistan is among the lowest in the world. Estimates of
Gross Enrollment Rates (GERs) suggest that in Pakistan, roughly half of all school-age children
and about two-fifths of the girls are enrolled in primary school. Yet the South Asia region as
a whole has made substantial progress: comparable figures for neighboring India are 97% for
all children and 83% for girls; in Bangladesh, 73% for all children and 68% for girls. For
children in low-income countries as a whole, the GER is about 100% for all children and 96%
for girls. 1
1.3       Nationwide data mask differences among and within provinces. Estimates of
primary level GERs in 1992/93 (including kindergartners) ranged from about 62% in Punjab to
31% in Sindh and Balochistan. For girls, the GERs ranged from 55% in Punjab to 14% in
Balochistan. Yet AJK -- a mountainous and remote area -- has a GER of 58% for girls, higher
than that of Punjab, which suggests that much can be accomplished with stronger effort.
Available information suggests that in rural areas, the primary GER for boys averaged about
71 % and 40% for girls; in urban areas the GER for boys averaged about 81% for boys and 73 %
for girls. Table 1.1 presents the picture in greater detail.
1 Gross Enrollment Rates at the primary level are defied to be the number of children
of all ages enrolled in primary school divided by the population of children of primary-school
age. For some countries the GER may exceed 100% because some pupils are younger or
older than the country's standard primary age.



2
Table 1.1 Gross Enrollment Rates in Primary School
(Including Kindergarten) 1992-93
(Percent)
Total   Girls   Boys
Punjab                    62      55      69
Sindh                     44      30      56
NWFP                      45      29      60
Balochistan               31      14      46
Azad Jammu & Kashmir    64        58      71
Northern Areas            42      25      58
Tribal Areas              36       9      62
Overal!                   53      41      63
Source: 1992 National Educational Management System
1.4      In health, a similar picture emerges. Despite progress, particularly in urban areas,
health indicators remain poor throughout most of the country. The crude death rate fell by 40%
over the past twenty-five years but remains at 12 per 1000, above the low-income country
average of 10. Infectious and communicable diseases are still widespread, and about half of
Pakistani children are malnourished. At present health problems are concentrated among young
children and their mothers, as reflected in high child and maternal mortality rates. The under-
five mortality rate for girls in 1991 in Pakistan was 139 and for boys 137 -- compared with
averages of 96 and 104, respectively, for all low-income countries, and 125 and 123 in
neighboring India. Although male life expectancy in Pakistan is about 59 years as compared with
58 for all low income countries, female life expectancy, at 59 years, is below the low-income
country average of 61, and the female proportion of Pakistan's population is among the lowest
in the world.
1.5       Not surprisingly, fertility is high. Pakistan's total fertility rate (TFR) is 5.7
compared with 3.8 for low-income countries as a whole, 4.4 for Bangladesh, and 3.9 for India.
Universal marriage and low contraceptive use contribute to maintaining high fertility rates.
Unlike most of its neighbors, Pakistan has not yet begun to show a sustained decline in fertility.
As a result, its population includes a relatively high proportion of dependent children, whose
needs - if met -- would absorb substantial resources. Thus, for example, Pakistan needs to
increase its expenditures on education by 3 percent annually just to maintain its current low
primary enrollment rate.



3
B. Weaknesses in Basic Social Services
1.6        Limited educational attainment, poor health status, and high fertility in Pakistan
reflect widespread and long-standing weaknesses in social services, and especially in the basics:
primary education, primary health care, family planming, and rural water supply and sanitation.
These basic services are the main source of service for the poor majority of Pakistan's
population. The provinces are responsible for primary education, primary health care, and rural
water supply and sanitation. The Federal Government provides policy guidance, coordination,
and much of the provinces' development (investment) budgets. The provinces cover their
recurrent budgets, including most salaries and inputs like books and medicines needed to
maintain service quality. Pakistan's population program is financed by the federal government
and run jointly by the federal and provincial governments.
1.7       In all provinces, government primary education programs suffer similar problems.
Solutions need to be tailored to fit local circumstances, of course, but the similarities are
evident. For instance, planning has long been weak, so that objectives are unrealistic, resource
requirements are inaccurately projected, and critical paths and monitorable indicators are
unclear. Plans also have paid too little attention to quality: education budgets typically spend less
than 1 % of resources on non-salary inputs like books. Nor do plans adequately address the
cultural requirements that must be met for girls to attend school (e.g., schools close to home,
female teachers, and private lavatories). Implementation of the plans is, in turn, hampered by
delays in the release of the development budgets to departments, by misplaced political
influences (especially on the location of local schools), and by irregularities in construction.
Primary education systems in all provinces also suffer from recruitment bans, high absenteeism,
and excessive or improper transfers of staff. Some 2,000 rural schools stand idle because their
teachers arranged transfers to urban areas while continuing officially to occupy the rural posts.
All have overly bureaucratic and duplicative administrations - separate ones for girls and for
boys. Finally, primary education systems do not involve parents or communities enough; nor
is private competition much encouraged. As a result, primary education is often inefficient, of
poor quality, and insensitive to local views on what should be taught and how.
1.8        The better schools - or at least the schools with regularly attending teachers -- tend
to be overcrowded. But many others are underused: 3,000 rural schools have fewer than 10
students, in addition to the 2,000 with none. Many parents keep children at home because it does
not seem worthwhile to incur the costs (direct and opportunity) of poor-quality schooling. Many
parents have been particularly reluctant to educate girls because others (e.g. in-laws, society in
general) will reap most of whatever rewards exist after the girls grow up and "marry out".
Recent experience suggests, however, that parents will send their children - including girls --
to school if the school offers decent-quality, culturally sensitive education. Moreover, the
"decent quality" standard that parents seek is rarely unattainable. It is well within the limits of
what is practical and affordable. In fact, it can also be cost-effective because more children
would attend regularly and they would learn more.



4
1.9       The weaknesses of primary health care resemble those of primary education. The
most pressing need is to improve maternal and child health. Accomplishing this will require, as
a start, greatly improved functioning of the existing network of small local facilities. Simple
technologies to deliver basic health, nutrition and family planning services can make an
enormous difference if they are made available effectively. In recent years, health services have
been expanded. Over 90% of local Union Council Areas now have a Basic Health Unit or other
health facility, but they seldom wvork efficiently. Most deliver poor quality basic care and fail
to reach out into communities. Many are not furnished regularly with key medicines,
contraceptives, or immunization supplies: expenditures on non-salary inputs are far too low. In
addition, Basic Health Units are often not staffed reliably. Moreover, they tend to lack trained
female health workers, even though women cannot easily seek health care for themselves or their
children from men. As communities are too little involved in the design or delivery of such
services, their preferences are not adequately considered. Thus, many local health facilities are
underused or abandoned, because they fail to meet users' needs.
1.10      Moreover, the primary health care system is inefficient. The sector has evolved into
hard-to-manage, complex structures -- duplicative and too centralized -- with weak backup and
supervision for the smaller facilities, The key district management level is overstretched and
lacks authority to act on its own. First-line district level referral services vary greatly in quality.
Throughout the system, planning and budgeting, personnel policies and practices, and logistics
for essential supplies are all inadequate. Delays in release of funds, bans on new recruitment,
and excessive staff turnover have exacerbated these problems.
1.11      Family planning services are extremely weak, even though surveys report that some
40% of Pakistani women want to avoid pregnancy. Family planning is supposed to be offered
regularly by all health facilities but seldom is. To give greater emphasis to faxrry planning, the
Government established a separate population program in 1981, managed federally by the
Ministry for Population Welfare (MPW). It is supposed to concentrate on making family
planning more readily available, especially at the local level. In principle, the services of the
MPW can complement and promote better use of primary health care, as they do in other
countries. But the services offered through the MPW share many of the problems of primary
health care (in planning, funding, staffing, and logistics), with even more centralized
management.
1.12      The private health sector, ranging from modern physicians and nurses to traditional
birth attendants and pharmacies, provides considerable health care and is beginning to offer some
preventive services, including family planning. Several social marketing efforts have been quite
successful. More than half of all expenditures on health now are for private services. The quality
of private care varies a great deal, posing some risk. But its potential needs to be explored,
particularly in the better-off urban areas where most modem private services are concentrated.
It may be possible to focus private services more on higher-level curative care with more cost
recovery, and so allow public resources to concentrate more on providing better quality but



5
affordable care for the vast rural areas and for the poor whether rural or urban, with an
emphasis on preventive and basic curative services.
1.13      Rural domestic water supply services also fail to reach more than half the rural
population, and quality often falls below minimum standards in the areas that are served.
Sanitation coverage is far less than that for water supply. Many existing water supply systems
involve capital-intensive and costly technology that is difficult to use or nmaintain and have fallen
into disrepair, accomplishing little. Government policies in RWSS have been inconsistent, and
planning and management in government agencies responsible for RWSS has been weak.
Government-sponsored RWSS programs have depended too heavily on the federal government
and on donors for direction and assistance. RWSS systems would be more effective and more
affordable if they involved community-based approaches using simpler and less costly technology
that could be operated and maintained at the local level, with communities covering the costs of
operation and maintenance. In tovvns, users should also contribute to cost recovery. But
communities and users have been too little involved in the design, operation, and management
of RWSS systems, with the result that they feel little ownership and so contribute little.
C. The SAP Initiative
1.14      Pakistan has now committed itself to a broad-based effort to improve the most basic
social services, for which it seeks help from the donor community. The Government deplores
Pakistan's weak performance in the social sectors and believes greater investment in basic social
services would accelerate gains in productivity, reduce poverty, and promote smaller, healthier,
better-educated families. A consensus is emerging that female education has particularly high
private economic and social returns in Pakistan. Education not only increases women's economic
productivity but also improves their children's health and learning and lowers fertility. (Male
education also has high private economic returns but has less impact on fertility or children's
health.) Similarly, it is evident that health and family planning services that reach women
accomplish much more than those that do not. Moreover, returns to social sector investments
in Pakistan today -- particularly those reaching women -- would exceed those from investments
in many other sectors. The Governnent therefore, supported by many donors, has embarked on
a Social Action Program (SAP) to improve primary education, primary health care, population,
and rural water supply and sanitation services throughout the country. The SAP comprises all
programs and projects, whether or not aid-financed, in the SAP sectors. The proposed SAP
Project -- with financing from IDA, the Asian Development Bank, the Netherlands, and
potentially other donors -- would provide overall support to the SAP. It would complement other
sector-specific and province-specific projects, whether on-going or future, by strengthening the
"implementation climate" for all projects and programs in basic social services.



6
D. Project Strategy: An "Umbrella" Approach
1.15      The proposed Project would take a broad-based, "umbrella" approach to improve
basic social services in Pakistan because the main problems are not sector-specific but endemic -
- common across all services and areas of the country. A variety of sector- and province-specific
programs and projects have tried to deal with these problems piecemeal, but often with
disappointing results. It would be simpler and more efficient to deal with these problems as a
whole rather than continuing to deal with them piecemeal. The proposed Project's "umbrella
approach' would address them as a whole. It would look across sectors and provinces to identify
a few core problems that impede performance in the social sectors, exploit similarities in
solutions to them, and -- through its very scope -- help marshall the political commitment and
resources to deal with them. These problems fall into three categories: (i) implementation of
social services has been deficient, (ii) design of social services has been flawed, and (iii) levels
of effort in social services have been insufficient. Underlying all three sets of problems are
political considerations and insufficient focus on the social sectors. Reflecting past political
neglect, social sector institutions are generally weak. The SAP Project will help concentrate
political attention, commitnent, and resources on these issues.
1.16      Improving Implementation. Pakistan's social services tend to operate inefficiently.
f expansion is to occur, it must rest on a stronger base in all four SAP sectors. All four suffer
from:
o    Poor planning and budgeting.
o    Bureaucratic delays in the release of budgeted funds to line departments and
executing agencies.
o    Lack of trained staff to meet rapidly expanding needs, made worse by
recruitment bans imposed by the Government on all programs to promote
fiscal discipline, without exemptions for priority needs.
O    Absenteeism and excessive or improper transfers of staff -- managers as well
as front-line workers, including teachers and health workers.
O    Inadequate and unreliable supplies of key inputs (including books, medicines,
and contraceptives) needed to maintain service quality.
o    Locating schools and health units within communities with too little attention
to the location of most potential users.
o    Faulty construction.



7
o    Excessively centralized management of dispersed front-line services, which
could be more effectively run through decentralized systems with flatter
"organizational pyramids".
O    Weak monitoring and bureaucratic obstacles to mid-course correction
(particularly in the rigid application of the government's procedures for
modifying projects).
1.17      As a result, sector-specific and province-specific Government programs and aid
projects often disburse more slowly and achieve much less than planned.
1.18      By jointly addressing implementation problems common to all the basic social
services, the SAP Project can strengthen the performance of basic social services even over the
relatively short period of three years and thereby increase implementation capacity. It can thus
complement the efforts of other on-going projects with a narrower focus while paving the way
for future projects that could begin during this three-year period or later on. These projects
could include traditional operations focusing on key issues in one sector or "program" operations
that support entire sectoral programs but in more depth and detail than the SAP Project. The
SAP Project would also promote effective sharing of ideas and experience and encourage
improvements in one sector -- say, primary health care -- that bolster improvements in another -
- say, family planning. Moreover, solutions to many implementation problems involve not just
the sectoral ministries and departments but the finance and planning ministries whose
responsibilities allow them to focus on common cross-sectoral issues at once. Of course, the SAP
Project would also help concentrate attention on important sector-specific problems that arise,
such as the special management requirements of the national population program, which would
also complement other projects. If the Project succeeds in helping the Government increase its
implementation capacity, it will enable greater Government level-of-effort and, in step with that,
greater involvement of IDA and other donors in the future.
1.19      Improving Program Design. Social services in Pakistan need to give greater priority
to basic, as opposed to higher-level, services, and the basic services need to focus more
consistently on improving quality and on expanding access for the poor majority in far flung
rural as well as urban areas. Special effort will be required to provide services that are of
decent quality but still affordable in many of Pakistan's rural areas where population densities
are low and most people are poor. Special effort will also be required to design services to
reach women and girls more effectively. The Social Action Program does shift focus to the
basics, and the SAP Project would emphasize quality and access. The Project would encourage
reforms across the SAP sectors that have worked in other countries, including ways to reach
more poor women and girls. These involve bringing basic services closer to users through
networks of small outlets, which tend to perform more efficiently for all users. Other approaches
to reach women include recruiting, posting and retaining more female teachers and health
workers, especially in rural areas, and offering more flexible hours for services. The SAP



8
Project would also highlight sector-specific design issues, such as the introduction of coeducation
where acceptable, or the inclusion of more family planning in basic health care, or the operation
and maintenance of rural water systems by communities. In its effects on program design, the
SAP Project would reinforce other social-sector projects financed by IDA and other donors.
1.20      Increasing Levels of Effort. As implementation capacity increases and design
improves, Govermnent expenditure on basic services should increase. The SAP Project would
help build visibility for the social services as a whole and would focus attention on the level-of-
effort issue. It is designed to increase coordination and cooperation among the federal ministries
and provincial departnents involved, including finance and planning. It has already helped the
Government develop plans that are a "reach" but realistic. Under the SAP, total expenditures
on the basic social services are projected to rise from less than $1 billion in 1991/92 to more
than $1.5 billion by 1995/96. Both Government and the donor community will have to increase
their financing to meet these targets, but the Government has committed itself to reducing
dependence on donors for social sector financing. Its own contribution will rise from $0.8 billion
in 1991/92 to $1.2 billion by 1995/96. It will cover an increasing share of incremental
expenditures in these sectors, from 46% in 1993/94 to 59% in 1995/96 and 69% in 1997/98.
If the SAP and the proposed Project succeed in increasing implementation capacity, levels of
effort could be fuither increased.
1.21      Political Will. If the SAP is to succeed, political will must be sustained from the
federal and provincial levels through to the local levels. The very fact that the Government has
developed, and stands behind, the SAP gives hope that this goal is achievable. The SAP Project
underlines the interest of IDA and other donors in this outcome.
E. Lessons from IDA Experience
1.22      The proposed SAP Project is innovative, but its design reflects the experience gained
from an extensive portfolio of projects financed by IDA and other donors. Currently, IDA has
primary education projects in three provinces; a fourth in preparation; and a middle schooling
project which includes primary; two primary health projects, each covering two provinces; a
RWSS project focussed in two provinces and Azad Janunu Kashmir; and a national population
project in preparation. (See Table 1.2 for IDA-supported projects from FY75 through FY93.)
Two education projects (Primary Education and Education III) have been audited and have had
project completion reports prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). OED has
prepared a project completion report on the Population, Health and Nutrition Project as well.



9
Table 1.2 IDA Social Sector Projects (FY75-FY93)
Credit
Name of Project                       Y     Amount
Education
Balochistan Primary Education    93      106.0
Punjab Middle Schooling          92      115.0
Sindh Primary Education          90      112.5
Primary Education III (Punjab)   87      145.0
Primary Education II             85      52.5
Primary Education                79       10.0
Educa:ion III                    77       15.0
Sub Total                            556.0
Health and Population
Family Health II                 93      48.0
Faamily Hea!th                   91      45.0
Population                       83       18.0
Sub Total                            111.0
Rural Water Supply
Rural Water                      91      136.7
Water Supply                     83      25.0
Sub Total                            161.7
TOTAL                                828.7
Non-SAP
Second Vocational Training       86      40.2
Vocational Training              81      25.0
NON-SAP TOTAL                         65.2
1.23     The fist, and perhaps most important, lesson from experience is that most of these
projects focused on key needs in a given sector but were often hampered by the broader
implementation problems described earlier. Recent sector-level operations have therefore tended
to move away from partial approaches toward strengthening programs at the provincial level as



10
a whole, and these projects have worked better. The SAP Project takes the program approach
a step further. It supports programs in all four basic services, province by province, and aims
at improving the overall implementation environment as well as addressing important sector-level
issues. It provides a comprehensive framework for reaching consensus within Government and
among donors on key reforms affecting the whole program as well as its individual components.
Once carried out, the reform measures under the SAP Project should increase the Government's
implementation capacity in the social sectors, enabling it to comply more readily with legal
covenants under IDA projects and speeding implementation of all projects in the social sectors.
1.24      Second, projects have run into difficulty when they were too complex. The SAP
Project appears complex because it supports all four sectors in the different provinces and areas.
It simplifies policy reform, however, by providing one framework for the annual assessments
and by focusing annually on key reforms that are timely and feasible and adjusting to promote
other reforms as the SAP proceeds. It manages the remaining complexity by subdividing the
work into more tractable sub-programs that are sector-specific and province-specific. It also
strengthens the monitoring and implementation capacity of the federal and provincial
governments. Still, complexity in the SAP Project remains a concern and may be the price of
addressing the core issues that impair social services throughout the country.
1.25      Third, other projects have had difficulty because of a lack of Government follow-
through on commitments to carry out agreed reforms. The SAP Project is designed to require
and strengthen such follow-through, particularly by phased funding and by insistence on annual
agreements on programs, including verification of prior actions and specification of monitorable
targets.
1.26      Fourth, other projects have sometimes had disappointing results because they did
not focus sufficiently on basic services. The SAP Project is deliberately designed to focus on the
basics.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.27      This project helps fulfill a priority objective of the Bank's assistance strategy in
Pakistan-to expand the reach and enhance the performance of the basic social sectors. A
consensus for reforms that can make substantial progress under current circumstances has
emerged. IDA's involvement helps the GOP seize this opportunity by strengthening the hands
of those who want to make progress. Other donors have worked closely with the Bank and are
encouraged by the Bank's focus on the social sectors and leadership. The Bank is exercising
leadership by helping the federal and provincial governments formulate operational plans for
their programs that meet the standards of the Bank and other donors for possible financing. It
has also established and is heading a Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU) for the SAP to assist the
Government in formulation, implementation, and monitoring of the SAP.



11
Country Assistance Strategy
1.28      The Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan was last discussed with
the Board on !uly 2, 1992; and it will be discussed along with this project. The last Poverty
Assessment was completed in August, 1990 and currently is being updated. This work has been
a key building block in the formulation of the Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank and IDA
assistance strategy for Pakistan supports the Government's main medium-term development
goals, namely to promote economic growth, alleviate poverty, improve social sector
performance, and strengthen macro economic management. More specifically, the strategy
concentrates on four priorities: strengthening social sector perfomiance; improving the enabling
environment for the private sector; improving management of Pakistan's natural resources and
the entvironment; and improving public expenditure performance as a key part of strengthening
macro-economic performance and carrying out structnual adjustment.
1.29      Progress in all four areas will be essential to achieve the Bank's overriding
objectives of sustained growth and poverty reduction. High priority is being given to investment
in social services, especially basic services, not only to improve social welfare but to increase
productivity and earning capacity, especially of the poor. The 1990 World Development Report
on Poverty has emphasized that reduction of poverty requires a combination of economic
incentives that promote efficient growth and investments in "human capital" that enable people
to respond as new opportnities emerge. Investments in basic social services are therefore an
essential part of the Bank's poverty reduction strategy. Similarly, strong private sector
development remains key to sustained growth, which is clearly essential for expanding
employment opportunities for the poor. The increased focus on enviroDmental concerns is also
directly linked to poverty reduction goals. Improving water supply and sanitation, reducing urban
pollution, and slowing and repairing degradation of natural resources are needed both for
sustainable growth and for improving the quality of life and the earning potential of the poor.
Better management of public expenditures, with emphasis on helping ensure increased funding
for social and physical infrastructure, also contributes directly to meeting poverty reduction
objectives. A Poverty Assessment, currently being prepared, will assess poverty reduction efforts
to date and develop a more comprehensive strategy for future action, including the possible
development of more targeted interventions to improve productivity and raise incomes of the
poor. It will emphasize the particular importance of human capital investments, including the
SAP, in Pakistan today. The SAP Project thus fits well into the Country Assistance Strategy.



12
H. THE PROJECT
Objectives
2.1       The SAP project supports the overall implementation of the Government's Social
Action Program, which aims to reverse Pakistan's historic under-investment in social welfare,
and thus to increase educational attainment, improve health status, and slow population growth.
It calls for improvement and expansion of all four of the country's basic social services --
primary education, primary health care, population, and rural water supply and sanitation
(RWSS) -- at a total cost of US$7.7 billion over the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993/94-1997/98)
or about $3.4 billion more than the Government spent on these services in the previous five-year
plan. The bulk of the financing for the program as a whole (about $5.9 billion), and for its
incremental costs, will come from the Govertnent. An additional $1.1 billion or so will come
from on-going and anticipated donor-aided projects. To fill the remaining gap, the oovernment
has requested $0.7 billion of program fiancing from various donors, including IDA. The SAP
Project would help finance the first three years of the SAP, 1993/94-1995/96. IDA has agreed
with the Government on the broad outlines of the five-year program, a more specific framework
for the three-year program, and detailed operational plans for the first year, 1993/94.
2.2       The previous chapter focussed on the four cross-sectoral issues essential to the
success of the SAP which require improvement in:
-    implementation by strengthening planning, budgeting and operational
efficiency;
-    service design with a focus on quality and access, especially women and girls;
-    levels of effort, including Government funding and community responsibility;
and
-    political will.
2.3       This chapter focuses first on the framework for reaching these objectives.2 This
framework has been worked out over the past two years through dialogue among the
Government of Pakistan, IDA, and other donors. It is intended to provide impetus, direction and
coordination for activity under the SAP; to allow the SAP to exploit and promote similarities and
synergies among the four sectors; and to focus attention on the all-important cross-sectoral
2     Arrangements for financing and implementation are described in detail in
Chapters Im and IV.



13
issues. The framework approach is already having a positive impact, as will be evident from
the discussion of the 1993/94 Agreement in the second part of this chapter.
Summary of Project Description
2.4       A mo-e detailed project description is contained in the "Implementation Plan"
annexed to this report. The project supports the Pakistan's entire program of primary education,
primary health care, population and rural water supply and sanitation, in the four provinces, AJK
and the federal areas of Pakistan. The bulk of project funds (over 90%) will be allocated to the
delivery of these basic services. A small amount will be allocateWi for the Participatory
Development Program to encourage the non-government sector to heip provide these services.
Finally, another small amount will be allocated to deepen and strengthen the monitoring of the
delivery of these services, as well as a household survey monitoring the receipt of these services
by the intended beneficiaries.
A. The SAP Framework
2.5       The major elements of the framework are:
-  A decentralized structure, to clarify responsibilities for implementation of
programs in each of the four social services, province by province;
- Performance-based annual agreements, with detailed operational plans and
measurable targets, to determine funding;
- Mechanisms for continuing policy dialogue, coordination and monitoring which
reach from front-line ministries and departments through to the highest levels of
Government; and
- A Participatory Development Program to encourage community participation and
experimentation through non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and related private
institutions.
The Structure
2.6       The SAP is clearly a program of substantial scope. Without some system for
subdividing the work, program planning, management and monitoring would be extremely
difficult. Thcl overall program is sub-divided naturally into sub-programs. Most of these are
sector- and province-specific; others will cover the national population program, some nationally
run education and health programs (e.g., the Expanded Program of Immunization), and basic
services in the federally administered areas and territories. Many sub-programs match up
conveniently with current IDA or other donor projects: for example, IDA has primary education



14
projects in supervision or preparation in all four provinces. Thus the structure facilitates "joint
products" -- work that simultaneously serves the SAP itself, the SAP Project, and a sector- and
area-specific project. The structure therefore makes the work for the SAP and for the proposed
Project more practical and feasible. IDA proposes to finance two additional programs -- a
Participatory Development Program to promote community participation and innovation through
NGOs and a program to strengthen monitoring and evaluation capability. While the SAP is a
nationwide program, covering all provinces and areas, a substantial porticn of expenditure will
be directed at the most important programs. The most important sub-programs can be depicted
in a grid:
Table 2.1: SAP Sub-Programs
Primary
Education PHC RWSS Population  Other
PROVINCIAL PROGRAM
Balochistan                   x      x     x
NWFP                          x      x     x
Punjab                        x      x     x
Sindh                         x      x     x
FEDERAL PROGRAM
Ministry of Population Welfare                   x
Other federal ministries      x      x
Federal areas/territories     x      x     x
Participatory Development Program                           x
Monitoring & Evaluation                                     x
Annual Agreements
2.7       The SAP Project will be implemented through a series of annual agreements -- based
on assessments of past performance, underpinned by continuing policy dialogue, and supported
by the previously described Multidonor Support Unit (MSU). This procedure will permit the
Government, IDA, and other donors to adjust to changing conditions aud thereby make more
realistic plans year-by-year. There will be three such annual agreements, each covering one
fiscal year during 1993/94-1995/96 and each summarizing the detailed individual agreements for
individual sub-programs (such as the primary education program in the Punjab or the national
population program). Agreements on each sub-program will be sought each spring, before the
fiscal year begins on July 1. Each will present Operational Plans that describe in detail a
program of specific size and content. The Operational Plans will comprise plans for capital and
recurrent expenditures as well as "implementation plans" specifying prior actions (policy reforms
and changes in practices) with monitorable targets for achievement during that fiscal year. The



15
assessments thus amount to a kind of expenditure review and cover past performance as well as
policies and proposed expenditure programs. They draw on Government and donor experience
in other programs and projects that focus in greater depth on one sector in one or two provinces.
Agreements will generally be reached on each sub-program before the fiscal year begins and will
be confi-med just after the start of the fiscal year that they cover. Once agreement is reached,
the sub-program will be eligible for IDA funding for that fiscal year. In some sub-programs,
however, it may not be possible to reach agreement; those sub-programs will then be ineligible
for SAP Project funding that fiscal year, until agreement is reached.
2.8       The amount of SAP Project funding for each sub-program will be determined at the
same time as the Operational Plans are agreed by all parties, including IDA. Disbursements for
each sub-program will be made only against actual expenditures which conform to the agreed
operational plans or as subsequently modified by mutual agreement. Once agreement is reached,
IDA expects to reimburse the agreed share of expenditures for that year, subject to the usual
understanding between IDA and Government that performance will be adequate. If performance
in a sub-program proves to be seriously deficient, then spending may fall short of planned levels
and disbursements will decline. Recommendations for improving performance will be offered.
Subsequent expenditures and hence funding will be based on past performance, which will be
closely monitored, as well as on operational plans for the new year.
2.9       This system of annual assessments and agreements is designed to create plans for
improving and expanding basic social services in Pakistan that are a "reach", but realistic --
more feasible and practical than past plans have proven to be. First, the system requires
assessments of each sub-program from which cross-cutting or "core" issues emerge. These core
issues become the focus of attention for the SAP policy dialogue and the highlights of the
summary agreement for that year. Second, the system encourages governments to compete for
funds based on their past performance in programs and in all aid projects and their proposed
plans and budgets. More funds (from Government or donors) will be allocated to sub-programs
that perform well because they will have larger programs approved. Third, the system will help
sub-programs with weaker performance to improve their implementation capacity by involving
senior officials in frequent reviews, by requiring annual approval of implementation plans, and
by offering assistance where necessary. Fourth, the annual process allows for flexibility and
adjustment as circumstances change. For instance, if implementation capacity expands and
donors design new projects for some sectors and provinces, then the "gap" requiring funds from
the SAP Project will fall. If performance in a particular sector in one province improves
markedly but declines elsewhere, resources can be shifted to support the strong performer while
efforts are undertaken to improve the weaker performer. Or if new "core problems" emerge,
they can be focused upon. The SAP Project will provide the incentive of resources, including
technical advice (coordinated through the MSU). It creates powerful incentives for both frontline
officials (who want to see their programs succeed) and finance and planning officials (who want
to ensure full disbursement of the IDA credit). The result should be stronger performance not
only of the basic social services but also of other donor-funded projects in these sectors. The



16
MSU provides a forum for improved dialogue on implementation problems between donors and
government, as well as within the donor community; if sufficiently serious, the SAP Project can
help address implementation problems in other donor-funded projects (if those problems cannot
be satisfactorily addressed in the context of that project).
Coordination and Monitoring Mechanisms
2.10      Basic capacity to monitor the SAP exists now but will be improved under the
Project. Performance in each cell is already being monitored by existing line departments in each
sector and by units in the planning and finance departments. The proposed Project will
strengthen monitoring in some line departments, particularly in education, according to plans that
have been agreed. The Government has also taken steps to improve coordination of monitoring
across sectors and givc a clearer overall picture of how the SAP is functioning. It has set up
small monitoring cells at the federal level and in the four provinces to augment the existing
monitoring capacity in the line departments. The new cells are in place and staffed. Moreover,
the Government has established new, high-level coordination and monitoring committees which
are the institutional expression of the Government's determination to see the SAP succeed. At
the federal level, a SAP National Steering Committee will be chaired by the Deputy Chairman,
Planning Commission, and assisted by the Federal SAP Secretariat, located in the Planning
Division. A comparable committee in each province will be chaired by the Chairman/Additional
Chief Secretary, P&D; it will be assisted by new provincial SAP Cells and the existing
monitoring units in the sectoral departments. Continuing policy dialogue will take place through
all of these mechanisms, including the MSU.



17
2.11      Figure 2.1 represents the reporting structure of the monitoring system in
diagrammatic form. It is described in detail in Chapter 4.
Figure 2.1 SAP Monitoring System
SAP NATIONAL STEERING COMMITTEE
MONITORING NATIONAL SAP
FEDERAL SAP SECRETARIAT
F~~~~~~~~~
PROVINCIAL SAP CO-ORDINATION COMMITTEE
(For each Province, AJK, and Federal Programs/Areas)
MONITORING PROVINCIAL SAP
PROVINCIAL FINANCE                 PROVINCIAL P&D DEPTS
DEPARTMENT                  MONITORING IMPLEMENTATION
MONITORING FINANCIAL                OF ALL POLICIES AND
FLOWS                       PROGRAMS INCLUDING
AGGREGATING INFORMATION
OF LINE DEPARTMENTS AND
SPOT-CHECKING IT
LINE DEPARTMENTS
HEALTH, EDUCATION, POPULATION,
RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
(PHED & LGRDD)
MONITORING EACH PROGRAM
INDIVIDUALLY, AT
OPERATIONAL LEVEL
2.12      The Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU). In addition, the Government can draw on
the recently established Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU), sponsored by several bilateral and
international donors for assistance in monitoring and coordinating the SAP (para 4.17, 4.18).
The donors have established a Trust Fund (currently funded at $2.5 million, with possible
further contributions up to $4-5 million, depending on need). The Trust Fund is executed by
IDA, and provides support for design, monitoring and coordination of the SAP. The MSU has
already taken the lead in coordinating the donors' policy dialogue with the Government on



18
various aspects of SAP planning, and has provided assistance to the governments for the design
of the SAP. It organized task forces for each of the four sectors, which identified critical
implementation bottlenecks and reached consensus between donors and government agencies on
needed reforms: the resulting "guidelines" were discussed in detail with each provincial
department/agency and formed the basis for each implementation plan of reforms, as discussed
more fully below in the section on imp2ementation.
2.13      Support for Monitoring and Evaluation. Finally, the SAP Project includes support
(complementary to that provided under other projects) to strengthen national and provincial
monitoring and management systems, which are essential to more effective management. The
Project will provide advice and resources to support studies, help the provincial and federal SAP
Units develop better performance standards for social services, and monitor implementation
against those standards. The Project will help sectoral ministries in cases where resources are
not available from sector-specific projects. It will also finance independent consultants to help
monitor key aspects of SAP performance (for instance, achievement of agreed targets such as
hiring teachers or adherence to agreed procedures for procurement) and to assess management
performance and needs.
2.14      The support for monitoring and evaluation will also finance studies, data collection,
and analysis of program impact to complement the monitoring of program inputs and process
measures. The core of this effort will be surveys building on the earlier donor-supported
Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) and implemented by the Federal Bureau of
Statistics. The resulting information will be critical to assessing the effectiveness of various SAP
program initiatives and determining whether pilot schemes should be replicated or scaled up.
Participatory Development
2.15      The Government of Pakistan seeks to increase community participation in and
responsibility for the delivery of basic social services, whether or not fimanced by Government.
This will encourage local contributions and cost recovery and help planners to design services
that better meet local needs; it will also increase the chances that services will be properly
maintained and operated. Non-government organizations (NGOs) and other private efforts in
many countries have pioneered approaches that have later been taken up by the Government.
particularly in family planning and health care. Through its operations in all four of the SAP
sectors, IDA is already supporting Government efforts to develop participatory approaches,
particularly in RWSS and in primary education. Plans are also underway for community-based
family planning and health care. The SAP Project will expand such efforts by promoting and
helping finance programs, including on-going ones in primary education and rural water supply,
that specifically promote participatory approaches. The Project will also support the new
community-based family planning outreach program and a sharp expansion in community health
workers. The SAP Project will help to track the progress of such efforts, including mid-course
corrections, thus providing guidance for possible expansion and replication.



19
2.16      In order to provide for trying new and innovative participatory approaches, the SAP
intends to provide $10 million, with a proposed initial allocation of $5 million, from FY95 for
a "participatory development program" (PDP). An additional $5 million can be made available
from unallocated project funds as warranted by the progress of this component. The PDP would
help community organizations, NGOs, private institutions, foundations, academic and research
institutions, and Government agencies to expand their efforts to involve communities and users
more closely in basic service delivery, as well as to promote more effective cooperation between
communities and the government departments providing basic social services. Several such
promising programs in Pakistan today reach more than 2 million people, in both rural and urban
areas. In addition, some 10,000 NGOs are operating on a relatively small scale in the four
sectors. These private efforts have developed mainly in areas where Government services are
weak, but some involve partnerships with Goverrnent agencies. They offer potential for
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of public resources by increasing community
responsibility and participation. Issues of replication and affordability arise with these efforts,
but some include ideas and experience that may prove seminal for future basic social service
development, whether publicly or privately financed.
2.17      To receive funding, organizations will have to meet appraisal criteria, including:
demonstrated effectiveness in organizing and delivering community-based services on a
substantial scale with participatory approaches involving both men and women; with practical
plans for replication and expansion; demonstrated need for additional funds; ability to work with
governmental social sector institutions; and willingness to test different innovations.
2.18      IDA will work with the Government and other donors to see if it would be possible
for the PDP to assist some of the smaller groups. Issues to be analyzed include adequacy of
available funding and accountability. No new institution will be cieated to manage the PDP.
Rather, funds will be advanced to the selected agencies that form an agreed part of each annmial
program, through the Economic Affairs Division in the federal government, to be reimbursed
by IDA.
B. The Annual Agreement for 1993/94
2.19      IDA's appraisal process established that annual assessments of each sub-program are
a feasible way to reach agreement on each year's programs. IDA carried out that process and
did reach agreement with Government on programs for 1993/94. The assessments were made
easier because the Government, IDA, and other donors could all draw on their considerable
experience and knowledge gained from current or past projects that treat specific sectors in more
depth. During appraisal, IDA agreed with the Government on the framework of the five-year
Social Action Program, with a focus on the first three years, including specific, monitorable
objectives for achievement. IDA appraised in detail and agreed with Governent on the more
specific annual operational plans only for 1993/94, because operational plans are prepared year
by year. For the three-year framework and the 1993/94 plans, IDA concentrated on ensuring that



20
program targets would be ambitious but feasible and realistic given Pakistan's implementation
capacity and financial circumstances. The final agreements for the three-year framework and the
1993/94 operational plans scaled back the Goverrnent's original proposals, in some cases
considerably, but provide for considerable increases in effort and substantial policy reform.
2.20      For 1993194, IDA reached agreement with Government on Operational Plans for
most of the sub-programs discussed earlier. These include primary education and primary health
care in every province and in the federally administered territories. Agreement was also reached
on the national population program and on RWSS in four provinces, AJK, and two of the federal
areas. Dialogue on the RWSS sub-programs in FATA is continuing. As outlined above, each
agreement embodies three key elements known collectively as the "Operational Plan" -- an
"Implementation Plan of Reforms" with prior actions and monitorable targets for progress on
critical problems; a development (investment) budget fnanced largely by the federal government
and other donors; and a recurrent budget financed largely by the province. These plans are
included in the Annual Agreement for 1993/94, along with plans for the monitoring and
evaluation program and the PDP described above. The agreed Operational Plans specify prior
actions and realistic targets, as well as key reforms to be implemented by the front-line
ministries and departments. They were developed by the ministries and departnents concerned
through consultation with IDA and other donors through the mechanisms outlined earlier. For
each, IDA conducted an assessment comprising a public expenditure review and policy analysis.
After amalgamating the findings from these assessments, IDA and the Government agreed on
the 'core" cross-cutting and sector-specific reforms to be carried out in 1993/94. Many of these
have already been accomplished. The Government conveyed these fully revised Operational
Plans to IDA at Negotiations under an official letter.
2.21      The costs to IDA and the Govermment of the appraisal and the 1993/94 assessment
were lower than they would otherwise have been because the appraisal and assessment could
draw on IDA's work for sector-specific projects in supervision or in preparation. Fortunately,
those projects now cover all four SAP sectors in most provinces. Other donors' analysis and
project experience was also utilized. In this way, the appraisal could also ensure that the
proposed Project would indeed complement other projects and programs. The cost to IDA and
the Government was reduced further because the MSU and other donors contributed to the
appraisal and the 1993/94 assessment.
1993/94 Agreements on Reforms
2.22      For 1993/94, the Government has committed itself to undertake the following
reforms, with specific variations for each sector and province (see Annex on Implementation):



21
(a) Prinary Education programs will:
0 improve the functioning and utilization of existing schools through such measures as
filling vacant teacher posts, reducing absenteeism and sharply restricting staff transfers;
establishing a separate management structure for primary education; strengthening
management information systems; and, through PDP and other efforts, promoting
community and parental involvement.
*   improve the quality of education, by expanding teacher training and increasing
expenditure on non-salary recurrent costs from its present low base to supply more items
like books;
* improve access to education, particularly in rural areas, by building more schools and
siting them according to need based on population criteria;
* increase girls' enrollments (and particularly their retention rates) by recruiting and
training more female teachers and either instituting co-education or providing more girls'
schools;
*   expand primary education systems as fast as is practical, increase Government
support, and encourage greater community participation in education.
(b) Primary Health care programs will:
*    improve the efficiency and utilization of basic health care by strengthening
management units and planning capability, by rationalizing the structure of different levels
of health care, and by linking programs now run vertically, such as those for
communicable disease control, more effectively with basic services;
c   improve program design by paying more attention to "quality" inputs such as
medicines (improving logistics and increasing expenditures); by giving more priority to
communicable disease control including immunizations; and by including more family
planning in basic health care;
* increase access to health care by constructing more basic facilities in those areas still
lacking them (particularly in the more remote areas) and by consulting users more in the
design and delivery of services;
* increase women's access to health care by recruiting and training more female medical
staff at various levels of service;



22
* increase Government expenditure on and promote community participation in health
care.
(c) Population programs will:
*  improve the operation and utilization of existing services through better planning,
management, and logistics and through decentralization of more activities to the provinces;
* sharply expand access to family planning and improve quality of services, particularly
by instituting government-sponsored, community-based outreach programs in rural areas
and by helping train health workers in the health departments in clinical as well as non-
clinical methods of contraception;
* encourage interest in family planning through information and education programs to
increase public understanding of contraception and its links to maternal and child health;
* increase government expenditures as fast as practical and encourage community
participation (for both men and women).
(d)  RWSS programs will:
*   improve performance and utilization of local RWSS systems and ease financial
dependence on the Government and on donors by: improving planning and management
of Government agencies; by encouraging the involvement of communities; and by
promoting community responsibility, particularly for operation and maintenance;
* improve quality and expand access, especially for women, through greater reliance on
community-based approaches.
*   improve rural sanitation by increasing the share of RWSS budgets devoted to
sanitation and promoting community-based approaches, using appropriate, maiaitainable
and affordable technology.
Improvements Already Accomplished
2.23      The policy dialogue during the preparation of the proposed SAP Project, together
with the dialogue for other projects including the Public Sector Adjustment Loan, produced more
than agreements on reform. Important steps in several difficult areas have already been taken
by various levels of Government which are beginning to improve the implementation climate in
the social sectors. Those steps include:



23
a. Improvements in Level of Effort and Implementation
* In every province, far better annual operational plans have been developed for
primary education, health, and RWSS, with higher levels of effort and greater
realism. The national population program plans for providing services at the local
level are also more solid and practical.
* Total budgets for basic social services are up sharply. There was a large jump
in overall allocation to SAP target services from 1.7% of GDP in 1991/92 to 2.2%
of GDP in 1993/94. There was also a significant jump in the proportion of total
govermnent expenditures devoted to SAP services - from 7% in 1991/92 to over
9% in 1993/94. Within that total, the 1993/94 population budget in rupees is over
40% higher than the previous year's. Expenditures are also increasing for non-salary
recurrent costs for key "quality" inputs, including essential medicines, vaccines and
books. In the health sector, expenditures on non-salary inputs have risen by at least
15% and by considerably more in some provinces.
* All governments have agreed to refrain from imposing any ban on recruitment
of field level staff involved in the delivery of SAP services.
* The Government has moved to resolve the long-standing problem of funding
delays; it has instituted at the federal and provincial levels new mechanisms to
protect SAP funds and ensure timely release to the provinces.
* Steps have been taken to reduce political inte ference in the siting of schools
and improve the supervision of construction. All provinces have agreed that sites
for new schools will be selected according to objective criteria based on the location
of the population, and three have already submitted lists of sites selected this way.
All provinces have also agreed to hire private fmns to supervise school construction
better; two have done so.
*   Monitoring and evaluation have been strengthened, particularly in primary
education. All provinces have established MIS systems in education with plans for
expansion and upgrading at the district level.
b. Improvements in Program Design
* To improve female access, basic service programs are being designed to recruit,
train and post more women teachers and health care providers in rural areas. Thus,
for instance, Balochistan has relaxed age and quaificaion requirements for female
teachers and health workers and will provide an incentive payment of Rs 500 per
month for women working in rural areas; it is also allowing women to fill more



24
senior posts in education and health services. NWFP is instituting similar measures
and will increase the number of women teachers from 9,691 in June, 1991 to
11,700 by June, 1994. Punjab and Sindh have also adopted policies to expand their
female health staffs and to allow women to occupy more senior posts. Both of those
provinces are also considering incentives for rural teachers and health workers.
Punjab is filling all its posts for female teachers, and all new schools will have
female/male teachers in the ratio 70/30.
0  The SAP Project has particularly emphasized the need for steps to increase
girls' enrollment in school. Historically girls' and boys' schools have been separate,
and often girls had no school. Some parents allow their daughters informally to
attend boys' schools (with male teachers), but many do not. Now all provinces are
shifting towards co-education. Punjab and NWFP have announced that all schools
will accept both boys and girls. Where resistance to co-education remains, priority
has been given to construction of girls' schools, which often become "co-educational
girls' schools" that boys are also allowed to attend. In Balochistan, for instance,
most new schools built in the next three years will be of this type.
* Efforts are also under way to increase the involvement of communities -- and
particularly parents -- in schools and in rural water supply programs. In Balochistan,
for instance, parents' committees have been formed to help oversee government
schools, and this year some 100 communities without schools have already built
their own and found women teachers who will be paid by Government. All
provinces and areas are preparing policies and modifying Government agencies to
help shift responsibility for RWSS to communities, and most are engaged in pilot
efforts to do so. Community-level organizations, such as "users' committees", are
being established and are working with both NGOs and government agencies to
develop more participatory approaches and greater community responsibility. For
instance, Sindh has adopted a policy requiring community participation in new water
programs, and NWFP is taking similar steps. In Balochistan, under a new policy,
any new RWSS program will involve village organizations and township water
associations from the design stage onward; communities will cover operation and
maintenance costs of simple rural schemes, with some subsidy to poor communities,
and user charges will be established for rural schemes that are more complex and
for towns. Punjab and Sindh have also revised their policies to increase user charges
and are instituting procedures to implement them.
*   Greater effort is being made to increase access to family planning services
through the health departments as well as through the national population program.
In all provinces, the Government has agreed that basic health workers should be
trained in family planning. The training, provided mainly by the Ministry of
Population Welfare, is already under way. In Punjab, over 800 health facilities can



25
now provide family planning, and the numbers are increasing elsewhere. To
complement these efforts and build demand for family planning, the Ministry for
Population Welfare is instituting and rapidly expanding a community-based outreach
program meant to provide at least one village-level worker for each of Pakistan's
12,000 villages by mid-1997. Recruitment for the first 3,000 villages is to be
completed by July 1994. The MPW is also strengthening its family planning service
programs and its information efforts. It is understood that the MPW has decided to
decentralize management to the provincial level in a step that will substantially
promote efficiency as the national population program expands.
c. Stronger Political Commitment
*  The SAP has attracted far more political commitment and public attention to
social services. Pakistan's three recent Governments all gave, and continue to give,
high priority to the SAP and have taken steps to promote its implementation. The
Prime Minister of Pakistan, the Prime Minister of A1K and the Chief Ministers have
communicated to IDA their commitment to the SAP. The Secretary of Planning
will carry the main responsibility for implementing the SAP -- and the SAP Project
-- at the federal level. The Chairman, Planning and Development (P&D) Board, or
Additional Chief Secretaries, P&D will be similarly responsible at the provincial
level. Such commitment must be sustained for the next several years to fulfill the
potential of the SAP. The Project has begun to help in this regard, through its
policy dialogue and 1993/94 agreements.
X The SAP Project appears to have influence beyond the scale of financing for
several reasons. First, its support for the basic social services as a whole has
substantially raised the political ante and encouraged greater attention and
willingness to act from the Government at the provincial as well as the federal level,
not least from the financing and planning authorities. Second, its emphasis on
annual agreement on operational plans promotes a close and continuing policy
dialogue and inter-cell competition; advice on perfornance is highly sought. Third,
it involves linkages to other IDA projects and to other donors. The SAP dialogue
has also improved the performance of several continuing IDA projects.



26
m. COSTS, FINANCING, AND SUSTAINABIFITY
A. Social Action Program Costs
3.1      IDA proposes to support the first three years (1993/94-1995/96) of Pakistan's five-
year Social Action Program at this time. The total projected cost of those first three years is
equivalent to US$4 billion in current prices, out of a projected total of US$7.7 billion for the
entire five-year period. These sums will cover the total cost of delivering expanded social
services (primary education, primary health, population and mral water supply and sanitation)
ntationwide for the period in question, including both recurrent and capital costs.3
3.2       Cost breakdowns by province and sector for the initial year, the first three years,
and the full five-year program, as appraised, are summarized in Table 3.1 in both current US
dollars and current rupees. Costs were estimated in 1992/93 prices and translated into current
prices, using IDA projections of local inflation and US dollar/rupee exchange rates. No separate
provisions were made for price contingencies.
3 Cost estimates used in this report are taken from the Eighth Five-Year Plan as updated
in the "Social Action Programme: Report to the Pakistan Consortium 1994-95": Febrary,
1994. They were discussed with the Government during appraisal and negotiations and
deemed to be adequate, although, in keeping with the framework's emphasis on annual
agreements, IDA appraised only the first year's program in detail.



27
Table 3.1: Costs of the Social Action Program
(Current US$ million and Rs million)
In Current US Dollars (Million)  In Current Rupees (Million)
Three-     Five-                Three-     Five-
Starting   Year       Year       Starting    Year     Year
Year    Program    Program      Year   Program    Program
(1993/94) (FY94-96)  (FY94-98)  (1993/94) (PY94-96)  (FY94-98)
PUNJAB                          532      1.789       3.457     16.184    57.242     112.832
Education                     362      1,259      2,434      11,023    40,276     79,455
Health                         79       260         532       2,412    8,314      17,353
RWSS                           90       270         491       2,750    8,652      16,024
SINDH                           237        782       1.471      7.204    25,031      47,998
Education                     175        578       1,096      5,335    18,497      35,760
Health                         36        105         190      1,096     3,345       6,204
RWSS                           25        100         185        773     3,189       6,034
NWFP                            157        L%4       1.156      4.790    19.002      37.729
Education                      99        378        736       3,024    12,088      24,016
Health                         19         99         182        579     3,156       5,956
RWSS                           39        117        238        1,188    3,758       7,757
BALOCHISTAN                     116        364        689       3.517    11.659      22.503
Education                      57        168        315       1,736     5,375      10,280
Health                         2?        107        218         694     3,436       7,123
RWSS                           3.         89         156      1,087     2,849       5,100
PROVINCIAL SUB-TOTAL           L04i     3.29        6.773     31.695   112.934    221.063
Education                     694      2,382       4,581     21,117    76,236     149,512
Health                        157        570       1,122      4,781    18,250      36,636
RWSS                          190        576       1,070      5,798    18,447      34,915
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR             28        104        207         837     3,319       6,772
Education                      17        65         130        524     2,076       4,236
Health                         5         20          41        164       652       1,330
RWSS                            5        18          37        149       591       1,207
FEDERAL SUB-TOTAL                88        387        751       2.667    12.377      24.521
Other Federal Areas            36        137        275       1,108     4,393       8,964
Education                     19        75         166        563      2,522      5,408
Health                         7        26          49         201      845       1,608
RWSS                          11        32          60         341     1,027       1,947
Population                     35       173         350       1,054    5,533      11,425
Communicable Disease Control    16       66         116        475     2,099       3,773
Participatory Development Program   0     5           5          0       160         163
SAP Monitoring & Evaluation     1         6           6         30       192         196
NATIONAL TOTAL                 1156     4.020       7.731     35.200   128.630    22.356



28
B. Sources of Funding for the Project - the First Three Years
3.3       Government. Table 3.2 outlines the funding plan for the first three years of the
SAP. Of the total of US$4 billion required, the Government will provide US$3.05 billion. It
has been agreed that the proportion of incremental costs provided by the Government will rise
each year, from 46% in 1993/94 to 59% by 1995/96 (and 69% by 1997/98).
3.4       On-going aid projects. In addition, the Govermnent will use $552 million from
existing and expected aid, leaving a projected three-year gap of $418 million.
3.5       The SAP Project and Associated Donors. IDA has worked in unusually close
cooperation with other donors to help Pakistan cover the fnancing gap arising from the agreed
program. The MSU has helped provide continuous coordination for donors working in
partnership. For this part, as shown in Table 3.2, IDA proposes to fill a part of this gap with
a multi-sector investment and maintenance credit of US$200 million -- on the understanding that
agreements must be reached, in each sub-program each fiscal year before funds can be
disbursed. Other donors -- in close coordination with IDA as well as the Government of
Pakistan -- will participate under the same arrangements. Thus, the Asian Development Bank
has pledged US$100 million and the Government of the Netherlands, $13 million, to support the
SAP program.
Table 3.2: Sources of Funding for the SAP in FY93/94-95/96
(Current US$ million)
Total   %
Government's internal resources       3,050    75.9
Existing/expected aid                   552    13.7
Program Assistance                      313
IDA (SAP Project)                     200     5.0
ADB                                   100     2.5
Government of the Netherlands          13     0.3
Additional Assistance to be mobilized
Possible Sources
Other Sources, including IDA/ADB1
Netherlands                            105     2.6
Total                                 4,020   100.0



1                                        29
3.6        Pakistan is negotiating with other donors to raise the additional $105 million needed
to implement the total program as agreed. The detailed expenditure will be agreed year-by-year
and may differ somewhat from the indicated amount. The first two years of the project period
are fully funded. IDA will work with other donors, including ADB and the Netherlands, and
the Govermnent to close the remaining gap for the third year, as warranted.
3.7        Sustainability of funding. Table 3.3 presents ratios of SAP expenditures to GDP
and to total Government expenditures; aiid ratios of Govermnent expenditures on the SAP to
GDP and to total Government expenditures. As agreed under this project, SAP expenditures,
and the Government's contributions to SAP expenditures, rise steadily as a percent of GDP.4
SAP expenditures also take a rising share of total Government expenditures, showing the
intended rise in level of effort on these crucial and basic social services; this proportion rises
from less than 9% in 1993/94 to over 12% by 1997/98. The Government's own contribution
to total SAP expenditures rises over time, from three-quarters initially to 79% of the total by
1997/98. Finally the share of incremental costs contributed by increases in the Government
effort rises quite rapidly, from 46%in 1993/94 to 69% by the end of the period. While donors
have contributed a substantial share of the increased costs at the outset of the SAP, this share
rapidly falls and is modest by the end of the five year period. The ending level of expenditures
on SAP services is still lower than the levels routinely spent on these services in other
developing countries of comparable income level; this level of effort should be within the
capacity of the Government to sustain and indeed increase in the future.
Table 3.3 SAP Expenditures as a Percent of other Variables. FY93/94-FY97/98
1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97    1997/98
SAP Total Expenditure --
% of GDP                                    2.2      2.4      2.4       2.5       2.6
SAP Government Expenditure --
% of GDP                                    1.6      1.7       1.8      1.8       1.9
SAP Total Expenditure --
% of Government Expenditure                 9.1     10.1     10.8      11.5      12.3
SAP Government Expenditure
% of SAP Expenditure                         76       75       76       76         79
Change in Government SAP Expenditure
as a % change in Total                        46       50       59        60        69
4 As a fail-safe, as expressed in the legal documents, the Government has agreed in no case
will the SAP expenditures fall below 2.05% of GDP in 1993/94, 2.15%in 1994/95 and 2.3%
in 1995/96. The higher targets discussed above are those adopted by the Government as its
targets to achieve.



30
C. Project Financing
3.8       The SAP Project will help support:
(a)  Provincial grograms covering primary education, primary health care, and RWSS
in each of the four provinces: Total cost $3,529 milli-n (88%), of which IDA $118
million; and
(b)  Federal programs covering:
(i) Basic services in AJK and the federally administered areas and territories
(including the Capital Territory of Islamabad). Total cost $241 million (6%),
of which IDA $31 million;
(ii) The national population program: Total cost $175 million (4%), of which IDA
$31 million;
(iii) The Communicable Disease Control Program: total Cost $66 million (2%)of
which IDA $13 million;
(iv) A Participatory Development Program (PDP) to promote community
participation and innovation through NGOs: Total initial cost $5 million,
fnanced two-thirds by IDA and one-third by ADB;
(v) A sub-program to strengthen Government capacity to undertake monitoring
and evaluation: Total cost $6 million, financed two-thirds by IDA and one-
third by ADB.
3.9       Overall, the Project will cover 5% of total expenditures under the SAP for the first
three years, or about 48% of the gap between projected costs and the total available from
Government and on-going aid projects. Table 3.4 provides an illustrative breakdown by province
and sector, although actual IDA funding on any given sub-program each year will be determined
by a formula based on the size of approved operational plans and on the availability of other
resources.



31
Table 3.4 Illustrative SAP Funding for 1993/94-1995/96
(Current US$ Million)
Three-     Disburse    SAP Expend.                         IDA
Year     ment from       Net of  Government   Funding   Funding
Program     Regular       Regular    Contribu-    Gap       (US$)
(FY94-96)    Projects    Projects     tions
PUNJAB                         1,789       177        1,612        1,494        118       50
Education                  1,259        140       1,119         1,056        63       27
Health                       260         37         223          202         21        9
RWSS                         270          0         270          236         34       14
SINDH                           782         93          689          631         58       25
Education                   577          66         511          490         21        9
Health                       105         15          90           72          18       8
RWSS                         100         12          88           69          19       8
NWFP                            594         94          500          432         68       29
Education                    378         61         317          272         45       19
Health                        99         21          78           55         23       10
RWSS                         117         12         105           105         0        0
BALOCHISTAN                     364         140         224          189         35       15
Education                    168         63         105           90          15       6
Health                       107         14          93           74          19       8
RWSS                          89         63          26           26          0        0
PROVINCIAL SUB-TOTAL          3,529        504        3025         2,747        278      118
Education                  2,382        330       2,052         1,908        144      61
Health                      571          87         484          403         81       34
RWSS                        576          87         489          436         53       22
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR            104         10          94            85          9        9
Education                     65          1          64           59          6        6
Health                        20          0          20           18          2        2
RWSS                          19          9          10            8          2        2
FEDERAL SUB-TOTAL               387         38         349           219        130       73
Other Federal Areas          137         0          137          115         22       22
Education                   79          0          79            65         14       14
Health                      26          0          25            18          8        8
RWSS                        32          0          32            32          0        0
Population                   173         19         154           85         69       31
Communicable Disease
Control                      66         19          47            18         29       13
Participatory Develop-
ment Program                  5          0           5             0          5       3
SAP Monitoring & Evaluation   6          0            6            0          6        4
NATIONAL TOTAL                4,020        552        3,468        3,050        418      200



32
3.10      Assuming good performance and agreement on operational plans, IDA funding for
each sector in any given province will be calculated as follows:
(a)  Total cost of agreed one-year program,
(b)  Less disbursements from on-going or expected projects, equals
(c)  The amount to be financed by Government and SAP donors,
(d)  Less the agreed Government contribution (which rises annually as a proportion of
incremental funds), equals
(e)  Net funding gap, or "SAP gap,' to be filled by IDA's proposed SAP project and
other donors.
3.11      The total cost of the agreed one-year program will reflect performance in current
projects. If performance is seriously deficient, the agreed program will be more modest or -- if
performance is very poor -- no agreement will be reached. If new donor aid is received
unexpectedly, the "SAP gap" wiil be that much smaller, because project funds take precedence:
the SAP gap funding is meant to be funding of last resort and not a softer option than project
funds would provide. The proportion of each province's SAP program to be filled by IDA and
donors is item (e), the SAP gap, divided by item (c), which is the total cost net of donor
contributions from on-going projects. (These contributions are subtracted in order to avoid
basing donor contributions to the SAP gap in part on other donor contributions.) IDA's share
is equivalent to its proportion of total donor contributions to the SAP gap. IDA's percentage
share would be the same for all sectors within a given province, but would vary among
provinces, depending on the amount of other resources available.5
3.12      Eligibility to claim IDA funds will be determined annually, on the basis of
performance in the previous year and the agreed program for the coming year. During the first
year, the 1993/94 Operational Plans of expenditures and policy reform were reviewed and the
5     An illustrative numerical example may help clarify this. Using the estimates in
Table 3.4, and taking Punjab as an example, the total costs are estimated at $1,789 million
for three years; disbursements for on-going (and anticipated) projects are expected to be $177
million, leaving a funding need of $1,612 million. Of this the Govermnent of Punjab is
targeted to provide $1,494 million leaving $118 million to be funded by donors. IDA's
share of this would be $50 million, or 3.1% of the $1,612 million needed. So, IDA would
disburse 3.1 % of total expenditures (net of those already financed by other projects) on each
eligible sub-program in the Punjab's SAP. The percentage would vary each year, depending
on other donors and the year-by-year program.



33
up front actions assessed in each sector and province. Sub-programs whose actions and plans
warranted support were determined eligible and IDA funds are allocated to reimburse the agreed
portion of the agreed expenditures of these sub-programs. These reimbursements will continue
throughout the year. Slippages would be monitored and discussed during the monitoring and
supervision of the project and remedial measures agreed upon.
3.13      In the next annual review of the first year's performance and of the next year's
program (1994195), any problems in implementation would be assessed and rectified, depending
on their nature. Slow implementation of the agreed program would lead to lower estimates of
implementation capacity, hence lower programs for the next year and a correspondingly lower
gap for donor funding (given the fixed nature of the agreed government contribution). Policy
slippages would need to be examined for the cause. If the problem were that the targets were
elusive despite good-faith effort, perhaps because the measures agreed turned out to be
ineffective, new solutions would need to be identified to make progress toward the same
objective.
3.14      If it were not possible to reach agreement on the scope of the expenditure program,
or the policy measures to be introduced, or if compliance were not credible, the sub-program
would not become eligible for reimbursement for the coming year. Therefore there would be
no IDA funds allocated for the ineligible sub-programs.
3.15      The funding mechanism works to use IDA funds only to reimburse expenditures for
eligible sub-programs and not to fund ineligible programs. When IDA funds are exhausted, the
SAP project will close. This sets up incentives for each sub-program to become eligible,
maintain that eligibility, and implement that sub-program as agreed. Slow implementation, or
policy slippage leading to ineligibility, reduce or withhold donor funds for that sub-program and
make these funds available for eligible sub-programs.
D. Retroactive Financing
3.16      The Government has proposed disbursement of up to $40 million (20% of the credit
amount) to reimburse expenditures under the Project incurred after July, 1993 and up to credit
signing, which is expected in April, 1994, at the earliest. It was recommended that this proposal
be accepted, for a number of reasons:
(a)  IDA has been deeply involved in the design of the SAP since 1991 onward, and
reached tentative agreement on the 1993/94 SAP during the pre-appraisal mission
in March/April, 1993. Agreement was also reached on almost all sub-programs
under the SAP Project. Overall levels of expenditures were appraised on the basis
of a financing plan that included expected funding from IDA and other donors.



34
(b)  IDA delayed the appraisal of the project during the period of an interim government
(April to October, 1993) to ensure the new federal and provincial governments were
thoroughly committed to the SAP.
(c)  The agreed program started in July 1993, which means that at least nine months of
the first year's fiscal year will have passed by the time of signing. Furthermore,
up-front actions for the first year were undertaken by the Government even earlier,
in accordance with the agreements reached with IDA. Since the SAP includes the
Government's entire program of primary education, primary health, population, and
rural water supply and sanitation, expenditures under the program could not be
postponed until approval by IDA's Board.
(d)  Under the 1993/94 agreement, the Government will be entitled to seek
reimbursement for a portion of expenditures in eligible sub-programs -- i.e., those
where agreement on Operational Plans has been reached. The expenditures eligible
for reimbursements under the SAP Project would be the same as those for the SAP
overall-- recurrent costs for delivering the social services as well as capital costs for
increasing capacity over the longer run. By the time of signing, it is estimated that
expenditures for eligible sub-programs would suffice to claim over $40 million.
(e)  Expenditures eligible for retroactive financing will be subject to the same
procurement, disbursement, and monitoring procedures as for the SAP Project
generally.
(f)  To maintain the momentum achieved through the greater levels of spending on
social services, it is important that the IDA portion of the financing plan be
available for the entire period, including the three-quarters of the first year which
will have occurred before credit signing.
E. Disbursement
3.17      To ensure that Government commitment is translated into increased allocation,
timely release, and subsequent spending of funds in the social sectors, the project would
reimburse only against actual expenditures and on the basis of actions already taken. Simple
procedures have been agreed with govermnent Accounting General Offices, finance departments
and line departments which would allow the identification and reporting of all SAP expenditures
on a monthly basis to allow disbursement requests to be submitted promptly. (See Annex on
Implementation).
3.18      In practice, the project would reimburse a proportion of development and non-
development expenditures incurred in the sectors of primary education, primary health,
population welfare, and rural water supply and sanitation, excluding those already funded under



35
on-going externally funded projects.
3.19      Expenditures eligible for reimbursement would be identified in detail by federal and
provincial governments and agreed with IDA. These will include all expenses incurred for
delivering the basic services, including salaries, operating expenses, supplies, goods, civil works
and maintenance expenses. Expenditures fuianced under other donor-aided projects will be
reported separately and will not be part of expenditures reported as eligible for reimbursement
under this project. A functional and object classification for budgeting and accounting purposes
is being introduced to distinguish the fiancial reporting of SAP-related expenditures, from that
of non-SAP expenditures. This would be done by reference to (i) the existing non-development
functional and object classification of sector expenditures; and (ii) the individual development
schemes comprising the SAP. Financial reports would be derived from the monthly Civil
Accounts, Abstract of Accounts, and detail of expenditures on ADP schemes, prepared by the
Accountant General.
3.20      Reimbursement would be claimed at intervals determined by the capacity of the
Government to generate the claims. Claims would be made separately for each SAP sector, in
each province or federal territory, in the form of a Statement of Expenditure (SOE) specifying
categories (civil works, goods, operating costs, etc.) and total eligible expenditure. Each SOE
would be supported by a financial statement, retained by the borrower, separating recurrent and
development expenditure by function and object, together with the respective civil accounts and
summary of ADP-scheme expenditure. The financial statement would specify the categories
of expenditures eligible for donor financing - such as civil works, goods, and operating costs -
- and would not be applied to ineligible items, such as land acquisition and taxes. For the
Participatory Development Program, funds will be disbursed through a special account to be
opened by the federal Govermment with an anticipated allocation of $500,000.
3.21      The claim for reimbursement would be submitted to the Federal SAP Secretariat,
under the authority of the Additional Chief Secrtary, P&D. This Secretariat would certify that
the sector met the eligibility crieria before forw'arding the SOE to IDA for reimbursement. In
the case of the monitoring and evaluation component, disbursements would be made against
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1993 on eligible consulting services and operating costs,
forwarded to the Federal SAP Secretariat and approved by IDA. The consulting services wiU
be used for prcurement monitoring and other assistance needed for monitoring and evaluation.
Operating costs will include the costs incurred to strengthen the SAP Secretariat and the SAP
monitoring cells in the provinces, AJK and the federl areas; audits; and the costs of carrying
out the household survey. These costs will include equipment and training needed in
strengthening the Secretariat and monitoring cells; and the salaries subsistence, transport and
other related costs of incremental staff needed to carry out the survey; and other additional
equipment required for the survey.



36
J.22      The credit is expected to disburse over a period of three years in conformity with
the schedule in table 3.5. These allocations are based only on expected actual disbursements to
reimburse expenditures in the first year of the Project. The $140 million listed as "unallocated'
would be disbursed on expenditure incurred in the second and third years. These allocations
would be made upon agreement regarding each subsequent year's implementation plan and
financing requirements for the various sub-programs.
Table 3.5: Allocatior. of IDA Funds
(US$ Million)
Category                                               Amount
PROVINCIAL PROGRAM                                             46.1
Punjab                                                       23.9
Sindh                                                         9.6
NWFP                                                          5.1
Balochistan                                                   7.5
FEDERAL PROGRAM (including Federal Areas)                     13.9
Federal Ministries and Areas                                 9.0
Population                                                   4.2
SAP Monitoring & Evaluation                                  0.7
UNALLOCATED (to be allocated in FY94-95)                       140.0
NATIONAL TOTAL                                                 200.0
3.23      It should be noted that these allocations are, on the one hand, "front loaded, " in the
sense that IDA (along with the ADB and the Government of the Netherlands) would finance a
greater proportion of the expenditure gap in the first year because it is the first donor to make
its funds available; the proportion supplied by fincing from other donors would be higher in
later years. On the other hand, the disbursements are adjusted downward tc allow for the
probability of a slow start during the first year and the chance that some sub-programs will be
ineligible for reimbursement for part of the period. The net effect is that disbursement to
reimburse a part of eligible expenditures made in the first year are estimated at $60 million of
IDA resources.



37
F. Procurement
3.24      In a program of this nature it is extremely difficult to forecast the total amount of
procurement at the outset and to categorize it into civil works, goods, and services. Most
procurement including all civil works is expected to involve small contracts over widely
dispersed geographical areas suitable only for local competitive bidding and prudent shopping.
Some procurement, however, will be suitable for international competitive bidding which will
be based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. This will include vehicles, chemicals,
contraceptives, some pharmaceutical products and consulting contracts. The Government may
request UNICEF and UNFPA to carry out some of this procurement for it, under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA.
3.25      During appraisal, IDA reviewed the Government's local competitive bidding
procedures, already in use in ongoing IDA funded projects, and found them to be in compliance
with IDA guidelines. There have been some minor shortcomings identified in their application
of the rules/procedures. This is partly due to frequent staff rotation, lack of training in
procurement procedures, and inadequate monitoring. The Project, therefore, makes special
provision for training of staff involved in procurement and monitoring procurement practices.
The minor shortcomings are detailed in the annex on Implementation and implementing agencies
have been advised to ensure that their staff follow agreed procedures.
3.26      To confirm that procurement is carried out in an efficient and economical manner,
the Government has agreed to engage consultants to oversee and monitor the procurement
process. All consultants will be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines to include prior IDA
review of the selection process of all contracts costing the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
3.27      To assist the implementing agencies in performing their procurement function in
accordance with agreed procedures, the consultants will carry out a review of the first five
contracts prior to award, and the prior review of all contracts above $50,000. In addition, the
consultants will also perforrrm ex-post review of the remaining procurement documents on a
sample basis. IDA will petform a prior review of all procurement requirements which will be
conducted using ICB procedures as well as all procurement documents for contracts costing the
equivalent of $200,000 or more.
3.28      All civil works and goods, vaccines, pesticides and equipment to be financed out of
proceeds of the project estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed $5 million for vaccines, medicines, supplies and pesticides
and $1 million for equipment, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association. Goods, vaccines, medicines, supplies, pesticides and equipment to be financed out
of proceeds of the project estimated to cost $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000 per agency may be procured on the basis of



38
prudent shopping.
G. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
3.29      Accounts will be maintained by the line departnents in accordance with sound and
locally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. The Accountant
Generals will collate the SOEs and certify their eligibility for funding under the progrdm. The
accounts, SOEs, and documentation relative to procurement will be audited at the end of each
year by independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA no
later than nine months following the end of year the audits refer to. The reports will include
an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting system and internal financial control, the
reliability of the SOEs as a basis for credit disbursements, and compliance with agreed financial
arrangements.
3.30      The Federal SAP Secretariat will prepare and submit quarterly reports to IDA on
progress in program implementation. The report will include an assessment of the performance
of each sector/province in implementing the agreed program and the reform agenda. It will also
include an assessment of the flow and use of funds.



39
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Implementation Arrangements
Overall Responsibility
4.1       The Government of Pakistan (GOP), and its political sub-units, are the implementing
agencies of the Social Action Program, with GOP's federal level Planning Division acting as the
sponsoring and coordinating agency. The Secretary of Planning has overall responsibility for
the national SAP and for the SAP Project. He is assisted by the Federal SAP Secretariat, a unit
in the Planning Division. In addition to these coordinating and sponsoring roles, the Planning
Division has direct responsibility for implementing two project components; the Participatory
Development Program (PDP) and the monitoring and evaluation program (see below). A SAP
National Steering Committee and four Provincial SAP Coordinating Committees, will meet
quarterly -- or more often if required -- to provide impetus and direction and assess progress.
4.2       Provincial/Territory Sub-Programs. The provincial/territory (and AJK) govermments
are responsible for implementing primary education, primary health care, population and rural
water supply and sanitation -- 94% of the SAP -- through their established sectoral line
departments. Their departments of Finance and of Planning and Development (P&D) have
responsibilities for financial control and coordination. These sub-programs are supported by
Operational Plans that include expenditure and implementation plans.
4.3       Federal Sub-Programs and National Program. The Ministry of Population Welfare
has overall responsibility for the population program nationwide, along with responsibility for
providing guidance to provincial-level population welfare and health departments. The
population sub-program is also supported by an operational plan. The federal ministries of
Health and Education also are responsible for implementing some national programs, such as
the Ministry of Health's communicable disease control program and the Ministry of Education's
National Education Management Information System.
Inplementation Agreements between GOP and the Implementing Agencies
4.4       Before the SAP started, the GOP asked the agencies responsible for delivering
Pakistan's basic social services in the provincial and territory governments to formulate a
program to improve the quality of, and enhance the capacity to deliver, these services over the
period of the Eighth Plan, 1993/94-1997/98. The GOP also asked IDA and other donors to help
formulate these programs. After many drafts and reviews, programs were elaborated for the
five-year period as a whole and will be detailed in annual SAP Operational Plans. The first, for
1993/94, has been completed.
4.5       The annual Operational Plans consist of three elements: (i) an "implementation plan
of reforms", which details the steps (prior actions) taken before the outset of the period and the
follow-up steps to be taken to overcome identified constraints and improve delivery of services;



40
(ii) a non-development budget (mainly the budget for recurrent costs) sufficient to improve the
quality of the services delivered; and (iii) a development budget (mainly the capital costs of
physical expansion but also important non-capital costs, such as training).
4.6       The Operational Plans for 1993/94 prepared by the implementing agencies were
approved by the Government as a basis for funding, while the five-year programs were
reviewed and agreed at the administrative level. Although the Eighth Plan as a whole has yet
to be approved at the political level due to the transition in governments during 1993, the Social
Action Program, because of its priority, was approved in total and for the first year by the
National Economic Council (NEC), the competent body. The first year's Government financing
for the SAP was protected from diversion to other uses by making it non-fungible with non-SAP
resources.
The Planning, Approval, Implementation and Monitoring Cycle
4.7       Implementation of the SAP occurs on a fixed annual cycle, geared to the annual
budgeting and planning processes of the Govermnent and the implementing agencies. Provincial
assemblies approve the annual budget and annual development plan during June of each year,
before the beginning of the Government's fiscal year on July 1. To prepare for this, the
implementing agencies involved, with assistance from the Multi-Donor Support Unit (see below),
begin formulating their Operational Plans for each sub-program by December of the previous
year; they work on them through the Spring before submitting them for approval by their
governments.
4.8       In March-April of each year, before the Operational Plans are formally approved,
they will be absessed by IDA and associated donors. An IDA/donor mission will visit, review
the plans, and leave behind its written recommendations for consideration of the governments
involved. These recommendations will cover the non-development recurrent budget, the
development capital budget, and the next steps to be taken on the implementation reforms
underway in each target sector.
4.9       The provincial and federal governments will then finalize their Operational Plans
(including budgets and implementation plans for reforms) and set in motion the reforms to
prepare for the coming fiscal year. The plans (budget and reforms) will be approved by the
administration, government and assemblies of elected representatives before July 1. In parallel
with these preparations, the Government, in early Spring each year, will communicate the broad
outlines of the SAP to the implementing agencies, and indicate the level of Government
development loans that would be available to help carry it out. Once the plans, budgets, and
up-front reform measures are approved by the Goverrnent and the provincial/territory
assemblies, IDA and the other donors supporting the SAP will check to make sure they still
approve them. At the same time, eligibility for IDA/donor support of each sub-program will
be assessed. Sub-programs whose Operational Plans were agreed, and where the required up-
front measures were in place, would be eligible for donor reimbursement of a part of program
expenditures. Sub-programs that were not in agreement, or which had not complied sufficiently



41
with the requirements for prior action, would be the focus of corrective efforts, looking toward
eventual agreement, if possible.  Eligible sub-programs would be allocated funds for
reimbursement; those not yet eligible would be allocated funds only when they became eligible.
4.10      The implementing agencies will carry out the programs as agreed. The federal
Government will provide its share of the SAP financing in advance, each quarter, to the
provincial and territory finance departmnents, which would in turn release the funds for
expenditure in a timely way so that the agreed programs proceed smoothly. New procedures
have been established to ensure timely release of funds. The governments will prepare the basis
for donor reimbursement for the eligible sectors (Statements of Expenditure, or SOEs) and
forward them to the donors, who will check for eligibility and reimburse the agreed percentage
of eligible expenditures.
4.11      From the outset of the fiscal year, the SAP monitoring arrangements described in
section B, below, would be in operation. The first quarterly meeting of SAP monitoring
committees (at both provincial/territory and federal levels) would take place in early October,
with subsequent meetings around the end of December, March and June. Discussion would be
based on brief SAP monitoring reports prepared, respectively, by the P&D departments in the
provinces and by the Planning Division at the federal level. The reports would also be
forwarded to donors for review, along with minutes of the meetings.
4.12      After the government monitoring committees report their findings, they would be
considered at quarterly SAP meetings organized by the MSU to inform interested donors. The
purposes of these meetings are: (i) to review progress under the SAP and disseminate
information of any kind related to the program, including progress/problems with other donor-
aided projects in the target sectors; (ii) to provide a formal mechanism for donors (whether
participating in the funding of the SAP or not) to raise issues of concern; and (iii) to provide a
forum for advice from the larger donor community on the future implementation of the SAP
itself.
Supervision by IDA
4.13      The SAP Project will require intensive supervision by IDA. Fortunately, the net
increase in the resources required for this task is less than it would otherwise be, because related
IDA-supported operations already exist in virtually every sub-program of the SAP -- primary
education and primary health in all four provinces; rural water supply and sanitation in two
provinces and the AJK; and, prospectively, the population program. This permits supervision
efforts to be combined for greater effectiveness. A similar situation exists for the Asian
Development Bank, the second largest SAP donor.
4.14      As noted earlier, IDA would need to start its supervision cycle with a March/April
mission to review the draft Operational Plans being prepared for the coming fiscal year. This
would be the major supervision mission of the annual cycle and would involve a review of each
government's and each sector's budgets, and implementation reform proposals, as well as a



42
review of monitoring over the previous three quarters (i.e., since the beginning of the fiscal
year). Required reviews of on-going IDA-supported investment projects would be included
under the umbrella of this SAP mission, since the mission member would possibly include the
same people who would review the sector-specific projects.
4.15      A second supervision mission would be a brief review of the Operational Plans
(budgets and reform measures). It would take place early in the fiscal year (i.e., early July).
This mission would determine eligibility of individual sub-programs for IDA funding and would
leave a record of recommendations on what it would take to make deficient programs eligible.
The second mission would also review the governments' monitoring of progress and the results
of the quarterly SAP monitoring committees.
4.16      The third and final supervision mission of the annual cycle would probably take
place in. December or January, to review mid-year progress and contribute IDA's views on
issues to be addressed in preparation for the coming year's Operational Plans. This mission
would also check on the governments' monitoring progress.
The Role of the Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU)
4.17      The MSU has an important role to play throughout the implementation process.
Early on, in preparation for the first year, it organized technical task forces -- one for each of
the target social sectors - to identify issues relating to policy reform measures, budgets and
planning which, in the view of the various donors, should be addressed. The MSU conveyed
these issues ("Guidelines") to the provincial and territorial governments, for their information
and use in preparing the Operational Plans. The MSU will continue this process in future years,
forwarding its recommendations in December and January. It will also coordinate -- and, as a
last resort, provide -- assistance to help the implementing agencies prepare their Operational
Plans.
4.18      In addition, the MSU will give selective assistance to governments to help them
improve their own monitoring and implementation. It would ensure that issues identified by
donors for the coming year's SAP are understood by the implementing agencies; that
governments receive any technical assistance needed to prepare the draft Operational Plans in
time for the March/April review mission; and that the information needed from the actual
budgets and plans, as approved by the assemblies, is presented in simplified formats for the
June/July mission. The MSU would also keep in touch on a continuous basis with the
monitoring and evaluation undertaken by governmnents and assist them as needed to improve thN
operation of that system. It would ensure that the monitoring reports and minutes of the
quarterly monitoring committee meetings reach the concerned donors, including IDA, and it
would stand ready to help governments to organize any training needed for operating the
procurement and disbursement systems for IDA and the other donors involved.



43
The hnplementation Plan of Reforms
4.19      As part of their Operational Plans, all provincial and territorial sub-programs, and
the national population program, have agreed implem-entation plans with reforms and prior
details. These plans are prepared annually for the coming fiscal year, and are agreed with IDA
staff and approved by the governments involved. For simplicity and ease of updating, they are
presented in a matrix form which includes:
(a)  identification of the policy issues;
(b)  notation of up-front actions (to be) taken;
(c)  identification of follow-up actions to be taken during the fiscal year in question;
(d)  notification of the agency responsible for taking the needed action;
(e) (quantitative) indicators of the concrete steps/reforms to be taken during the fiscal
year;
(f)  (quantitative and time-bound) indicators of outputs or achievements; and
(g)  specification of the assumptions and/or riLks underlying the actions (to be) taken.
4.20      The Operational Plans are prepared in detail for each sub-program and are too bulky
to append to this report. They formally will be conveyed to IDA under cover of an official
letter; and they will form part of the SAP project file. This has already happened for the first
year, 1993/94. Summaries of key reforms for 1993/94, distinguishing between up-front and
follow-up actions, are presented in the Annex on Implementation.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
4.21      Given the comprehensive nature of the SAP and past weaknesses in implementation,
transparent and implementation-oriented monitoring systems are crucial to the success of the
SAP and of the proposed SAP Project. An effective monitoring and evaluation system is required
to: (i) assess progress in implementation of the annual work programs under the SAP; (ii)
verify the adoption and implementation of the agreed policy and institutional measures in support
of the SAP; and (iii) evaluate the impact of the SAP on the quality of social services and the
extent of their accessibility to the population at large. Such a monitoring system, to be managed
by the provincial planning departments and coordinated by the Federal SAP Secretariat is in
place. Funding to help ensure that the governments have the capacity to implement this system
is an important element of the Project. IDA appraised these arrangements and found them
satisfactory. (See Monitoring and Evaluation below).



44
Monitoring of SAP Inputs
4.22      The existing M&E system needs to be organizationally streamlined and its capacity
enhanced to meet the need for systematic feedback on SAP performance. A strengthened system
would provide the basis for tracking progress in SAP implementation and for identifying and
removing constraints to the achievement of SAP goals at various levels of decision making
(including the local level) as follows:
(a) At the level of the line departments, the monitoring system would: (i) provide
information on performance against targets in terms of financial expenditures,
physical implementation, and perfonnance indicators (e.g., key inputs such as the
number of vacancies filled, particularly for female teachers of the agreed work
program, and (ii) pinpoint bottlenecks and provide the information for selecting the
necessary corrective actions. The information generated by the line departments
would form the basis for quarterly reports for use by managers/decisionmnakers in
the line departments and would provide an input for more aggregated monitoring by
the P&D and Finance departments. In some sectors such as education, well
developed provincial Education Management Information Systems already exist and
will be strengthened under SAP.
(b) At the level of the P&D and Finance departments, the monitoring system would
enable these departments to provide effective and timely support to the line
departmnents by providing the basis for: (i) addressing any constraints that cannot be
addressed within the sphere of responsibility and authority of the line departments;
and (ii) assisting the line departments in initiating the necessary actions in cases
where program performance lags behind program targets.
(c) At the level of the provincial apex of the government, the monitoring system would
provide the basis for: (i) coordinating cross-sector interventions and facilitating
cross-sector flows of experience; (ii) assessing the effectiveness of the SAP in
helping to meet provincial social objectives; and (iii) adjusting the provincial policy
instruments or resource allocation, as needed, to facilitate effective implementation
of the SAP.
(d) At the federal level, the monitoring system would keep the national authorities
informed about the effectiveness and adequacy of SAP-related interventions both
within and across provinces and would provide the basis for any decisions/actions
in support of the national program. Moreover it would provide an aggregated
national picture of progress under the SAP. The Government will participate with
IDA and other donors in quarterly review of the SAP.



45
Monitoring of SAP Impacts
4.23      In order to complement assistance for monitoring program inputs and process
measures, the SAP Project will also finance or strengthen an existing system of data collection
and analysis for monitoring outcomes (such as girls' enrollment rates) in relation to inputs (such
as recruitment of female teachers) in SAP sectors and evaluating the effectiveness of various
SAP program initiatives. Various studies will be supported. At the core of the effort are flexible,
broad-based surveys at household, community, and facility (e.g., schools, health centers) levels
which will be implemented under the aegis of the Federal Bureau of Statistics during the Eighth
Plan. Capacity for monitoring and evaluation will be developed under the Federal SAP
Secretariat, with support from the MSU and IDA. The overall cost of the household surveys and
analysis over three years is estimated to be US$3 million.
4.24      The system will also help pinpoint the actual beneficiaries under the SAP and
determine how they benefit. For example, it is important to know whether the SAP leads to
improvements in access to basic services for the poor and other disadvantaged socio-economic
gioups, whether consumption of services increases, and whether increased access and use is
reflected in improvements in outcomes indicators (e.g., higher primary school enrollments,
better nutrition. higher immunization rates). Given the well-known gaps in social indicators for
males and females in Pakistan, it is also important to see how SAP initiatives affect females. In
addition, careful monitoring is important for developing the necessary base of information for
deLermining whether pilot schemes developed under the SAP are worthy of replication or
scaling-up.
4.25      Examples of the kinds of questions that will be addressed include:
- In  primary education. What measures work most effectively to increase school
enrollments for girls? How important are other factors affecting demand for
services, such as parental education, family size, income levels, and cultural
factors?
- In population. What structure of family planning services will most increase use
of contraceptives in rural areas? What kinds of contraceptives do most people
prefer'? How does education affect contraceptive use or family size?
- Regarding cost recovery. What will households and communities pay for various
services? What happens to use patterns when user fees are introduced?
- Regarding non-governmental activity . How can NGOs and community
organizations help provide basic social services?
4.26      The system of data collection. Much of the necessary information will be collected
by the Federal Bureau of Statistics under an extension of the Pakistan Integrated Household
Survey (PIHS) project, which was begun in 1988 and supported by IDA, UNDP, and USAID.



46
The first round of the PIHS project, completed in 1991, covered 4,800 households in 300 urban
and rural communities. A comprehensive questionnaire was developed for the first year of field
work, including core modules on the demographic structure of households, consumption
expenditures, and detailed income accounting, as well as special modules measuring labor-force
participation, unemployment, women's time use, infrastructure, public services, dwelling-unit
characteristics, education and training, health status and health care utilization, infant-feeding
practices, nutrition outcomes, household energy use, transfers and remittances, migration and
credit. Community, school, health-facility, and price surveys were also administered in the 300
sample communities. Thus, the first round of the PIHS provides a solid baseline of information
on the social and economic status of households and communities throughout Pakistan.
4.27      For the present Project, it is proposed to increase the sample size of the core
household survey to about 11,000 households residing in 900 urban and rural communities, and
to administer the survey on an annual basis. Urban and rural population shares as well as
provincial shares would be roughly representative of the population as a whole. To respond to
concerns regarding the distribution of benefits from SAP initiatives, it is proposed to expand the
sample of the core survey in five of Pakistan's more backward districts to include a continuous
panel of 500-600 additional households in each district.
4.28      A set of core questions (derived from the 1991 core modules) will be administered
throughout PIHS data collection -- likely covering household composition, consumption
expenditures, housing and access to social services. Additions, deletions, and modifications will
be made to the questionnaire in each round (i.e., annually), although core information will be
retained throughout. Thus, modules on timely topics of specific interest to Government, the
MSU or donors could be included or discussed in any round of the survey. For instance, the
education module will be expanded to provide more extensive information on school attendance,
costs of enrollment, failure rates and repetition, and informal education and training. The
question of which modules to retain and which to modify, add or drop would be decided on an
annual basis, and would reflect the emerging agenda and experience with the design and
implementation of the SAP.
4.29      Community, facility and price surveys will be administered throughout the survey.
Given the focus of the SAP, the community-level questionnaire will be developed to detail the
types of basic services offered, so that program planners can know with more precision what
encourages people to send their children to school, seek health care, and so on. Such analysis,
though difficult, is important to determine what the provision of basic services can accomplish
and for whom--and at what cost.
4.30      The PIHS and associated community survey will be conducted by the government
through the main statistical office with the participation of the Pakistan Institute for Development
Economics and other private organizations, supported by the MSU and by IDA supervision.



47
Monitoring Institutions
4.31      Institutionally, the monitoring system would make use of the monitoring capacity
in the line departments and in the P&D and Finance departments at the provincial level. A
Provincial SAP Coordination Committee would be created and would meet regularly to assess
progress and provide support for continued smooth implementation. At the federal level, the
system would be supported by the Federal SAP Secretariat in the Planning Division and a
national Social Sector Coordinating Committee. In ascending order monitoring and evaluation
institutions would include the following:
(a)  Monitoring cells in line departments: These cells are already in existence although
not necessarily referred to by this name. They would be strengthened so as to
enable them to produce information on each scheme within standardized formats,
indicating targets, performance, and critical constraints with respect to both financial
expenditures and physical implementation. The agreed indicators include: physical
progress of the project; the project budgetary and financial position; progress in
introducing agreed reforms; and impact or outcome indicators to measure progress
toward SAP objectives.
(b)  Monitoring cells in the P&D and Finance Departments: These cells already exist.
Their responsibilities vis-a-vis the SAP may have to be more focussed, and their
capacity to monitor the program strengthened. Specifically, the P&D and Finance
monitoring cells would need to develop the capacity to aggregate and analyze the
scheme-level information provided by the line departments into sectoral- and
program-level formats, respectively, indicating sectoral and program performance
at each stage of implementation and specifying the critical bottlenecks requiring
intervention. These departments should also have the capacity to spot check the
information generated by the line departments, which would enhance the utility of
the system of quarterly review meetings described earlier and would provide the
basis for closer cooperation between the P&D and the Finance Departments.
(c)  SAP Provincial Co-ordination Committee (SAPCC): This Committee would be
chaired by the Chairman/Additional Chief Secretary, P&D. The Additional Chief
Secretary, Planning and Development (P&D), who would also serve as member
secretary for the Committee and, as such, would be responsible for following up on
the implementation of the Committee's decisions. Membership would also include
the Provincial SAP Coordinator, and the Secretaries of Finance, Education, Health,
Population, Welfare, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, (Public Health Engineering
Department, PHED and Local Government and Rural Development, LG&RD). The
Committee would meet quarterly (or more often as required) to assess progress in
SAP implementation, using as a resource a brief monitoring report prepared by the
P&D Department in cooperation with the Finance Department. The SAPCC would
address any sectoral, cross-sectoral or inter-departmental issues which may be
holding up implementation of the SAP and which may be amenable to solution



48
within the scope and authority of the Provincial Government. The Committee
would also meet at the request of any of its members to address urgent issues or
inter-departmental differences of view. It should be empowered to make decisions
binding on all departments and subject to immediate implementation. The purpose
of the SAPCC is not to appropriate the SAP responsibilities of the P&D or any
other department.  Rather, its purpose is to support the P&D and Finance
Departments in coordinating the implementation process by providing a forum for
quick decisions on sectoral inter-departmental and other policy issues which the
P&D and Finance may be unable to resolve.
(d)  Social Sector Coordination Committee (SSCC): This Committee wvould be chaired
by the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission. It would meet on a regular basis
to discuss issues in the social sectors and, in particular, to assess progress in the
implementation of SAP and to address issues that are beyond the scope of authority
of the Provinces. The Committee would also consider inter-provincial policy issues.
It would base its discussions on analytical work and a monitoring report on the SAP
prepared by the Federal SAP Secretariat based on its continuous interaction with
provincial P&D, Finance and line departments.
Funding Monitoring and Management
4.32      The SAP Project will help finance the strengthening of the provincial and federal
units outlined above and help them develop performance standards in the delivery of social
services. This could include funds to hire private firms and institutions to conduct analyses,
assist with monitoring, and otherwise help the Government expand its implementation capacity.
The MSU will assist the federal and provincial governments in developing proposals and in
selecting the required technical assistance to carry them out. Funds will be allocated on the
basis of documented needs approved by the Federal SAP Secretariat.
C. The Participatory Development Program (PDP)
4.33      As noted in Chapter 2, the SAP Project will include a program to explore new
approaches for involving communities, test innovative ways to deliver social services at the
community level, and foster stronger linkages between communities, NGOs. and Government
services in the SAP sectors. Funds will be available to support analysis and studies of policies
and programs, workshops, and dissemination of best practice. In 1994/95, the PDP will
concentrate on helping larger, well-established NGOs. universities or apex organizations which
have already helped to establish effective partnerships among Government. NGOs, and
communities.
4.34      To make use of funds in the PDP, NGOs, universities, or other private institutions
will submit proposals for grants of at least $100,000 for programs typically covering more than
one year and fitting criteria to be agreed between IDA and Government. after consultations with
other donors. Priority would be given to NGOs acting as apex organizations with a proven track



49
record and able to "retail" small grants among the 10,000 smaller NGOs that presently operate
in Pakistan, which are often the source of important new approaches. Funds would also support
the work of these apex organizations in fostering further cooperation and collaboration between
Government and NGOs (e.g. seminars, workshops, study tours, analysis and dissemination of
field experience and analysis of the "enabling environment" within which NGOs operate in
Pakistan). NGOs working in particularly sensitive or challenging fields, such as population,
would also receive priority.
4.35      No new institution will be created to manage the PDP. Instead, proposals will be
submitted to the Federal SAP Coordinating Unit, reviewed by the Planning Division with the
assistance of the MSU, and selected and submitted to IDA for approval. Money will be
advanced upon authorization from the Economic Affairs Division (EAD) of the federal
government directly to the selected NGOs on a periodic basis through a special account, to be
reimbursed by IDA. The participating NGOs will submit quarterly and annual progress reports
documenting performance according to specified indicators and financial statements; financial
reporting and audits will be conducted in accordance with EAD procedures for NGOs, which
are acceptable to IDA. In addition to undertaking regular monitoring visits, the Planning
Division with the support of the MSU will monitor the selected NGOs regularly and, together
with IDA, will organize and manage the final evaluation of the Participatory Development
Program itself.



so
V. RISKS AND BENEFTS
A. Risks
5.1       The main risk is that so large and complex a Project could over-strain the
management capacities of the Government and the supervisory resources of IDA. The SAP and
the Project address this risk in five ways. First, it focuses on a addressing a few critical
problems that impede basic service delivery. Second, the sub-program structure means that work
done through the SAP and the project will reinforce GOP and donor work on province- and
sector-specific activities and vice versa. In the case of IDA, this will permit "joint products" in
the form of dual-purpose supervisory missions, avoiding undue strain on staff resources. Third,
the SAP effort is building the Government's capacity to plan, budget, and implement. Fourth
a Multi-donor Support Unit has been established to assist the Government with the SAP and to
promote coordination and monitoring. Fifth, the Project also has a detailed and carefully
designed implementation plan.
5.2       A second risk is that the intended reforms will not be achieved or will be seriously
delayed. This risk is addressed by the phased annual release of funds based on prior performance
and annual agreements identifying prior actions and monitorable targets. Second, the design of
the Project draws on lessons learned from sector-specific projects supported by IDA and other
donors, who were closely involved in Project preparations. The MSU's unusually intensive
monitoring will permit early identification of problems and provision of assistance.
5.3       A third risk is that the SAP Project will undermine existing donor- and IDA-
supported projects by providing a softer option with weaker conditionality than those projects
require. This risk is addressed by treating existing and expected aid as "above the line" when
defining the funding gap that the SAP Project will help fill, thus removing any temptation to
substitute Project funds for other aid. If additional aid projects are received they too will be
treated as "above the line". The risk is also addressed by including performance under other aid
projects in anmual assessments of prior performance.
5.4       A fourth risk is that Government commitment will weaken or fail. This risk too is
addressed by the phased funding and annual agreements. It is also addressed by the broad scope
and multi-ministerial team-building emphasis of the Project. And it is addressed by giving
important oversight responsibilities to coordinating committees that include the highest levels of
federal and provincial government.
5.5       A fifth risk is that the SAP, and particularly its recurrent costs, will be financially
unsustainable because it depends too heavily on donors. The Project finances recurrent as well
as development costs because recurrent costs are the main costs of basic social services. These
costs are investments in human capital, in any event. Moreover, the Government has agreed to
assume a rising share of total as well as recurring costs as the SAP proceeds. Govermnent
expenditures will rise to 2.6% of GDP by the end of the Eighth Plan in 1997/98. This level is
well below levels of effort for basic social services in comparable low-income countries and



51
should be sustainable by the GOP, even as part of Pakistan's current stringent fiscal policy.
Nonetheless, Government resources will be very limited, even for priority fields like basic social
services. The Project would also emphasize the need for more cost recovery, especially in
RWSS. Over time, donor financing of incremental SAP costs will fall, from 53% in 1993 to
41 % in 1995/96. It will continue to fall, so that this share would be 30% by 1997/98. This is
only slightly higher than the share of costs for basic services that donors covered before the SAP
began. If this Project does well, there could be a subsequent one with a further decline in the
share financed by donors.
B. Benefits
5.6       The SAP Project would contribute over 1993/94 to 1995/96 to the Government's
Social Action Program, which aims to redress the generic weaknesses of basic social services
in Pakistan. It would increase the Government's implementation capacity and so complement and
facilitate additional IDA and donor projects, whether traditional narrowly-focused ones or ones
that support entire sectoral programs. It would particularly help the poor because the poor are
now disproportionately disadvantaged by the core problems that the SAP Project would address;
it would concentrate on improving and increasing access to the most basic services. The Project
would thus promote produictivity, reduce poverty, and encourage smaller, healthier, better
educated families. It would also help to slow Pakistan's exceptionally rapid population growth.
5.7       Although the Project would finance only 5 percent of the total costs of the SAP for
the period 1993/94-1995-96, it would, through its policy dialogue, focus attention and resources
to address a few "core" problems that now impede the provision of social services. Those
problems fall in three categories: implementation, design (to improve quality and access), and
level of expenditure. The Project would work through annual agreements on programs to
strengthen Government planning, policies, and budgeting and so help expand basic service
programs in practical ways. Its specific and immediate benefits would thus include changes in
plans, policies, and expenditure programs. But the Project would thereby contribute to the SAP's
accomplishments more broadly, improving the implementation and quality of basic services and
increasing access, particularly for women and the poor. The emphasis on basic services and
greater community participation in their design and implementation would mean that fewer
services will be unwanted, underused or poorly maintained. Communities would feel a greater
sense of "ownership" and be more likely to contribute to their costs. In addition, popular
political support for Government programs would be likely to grow, thus enhancing Government
commitment to investments in social services.
5.8       Gains in the four basic social services would be mutually reinforcing. For instance,
healthy, well nourished children will be better able to learn. The most effective way to improve
children's health is to educate their mothers while providing better health care. Satisfactory
rural water supply and sanitation reduce the high risk of diarrheal and other water-borne
diseases, and those both complement basic health services. As is well known, demand for, and
use of, family planning services to limit fertility rises when women and girls are better educated
and when children receive health care that increases their chances uf survival to adulthood.



52
Finally, improvements in health and learning will all promote greater economic productivity, for
both men and women.
5.9       Sector-specific Project benefits cannot be separated out from those of on-going donor
activities, since the Project supports the entire Government program for improving social
services. The SAP Project will, however, reinforce sector-specific IDA- and donor-supported
projects through its emphasis on Government commitment to social services in general,
strengthening overall implementation capabilities, and better monitoring of both inputs and
outputs in the social service sector. Preparations for the Project have already produced
demonstrable improvements in both policy and programming in several sectors and provinces
(see Chapter 2). Thus the SAP Project would contribute to the following objectives of the Social
Action Program as agreed with. IDA:
Primary Education
5.10      In primary education, the SAP Project will help raise enrollment rates, especially
for girls, by improving the performance of existing schools and building new schools where
needed. Extensive efforts will be undertaken to improve management of primary education, to
ensure that schools have trained teachers who attend regularly, and to increase the supply of
books and other inputs needed to improve the quality of education.
o Punjab: Some 30,000 primary school teachers (21,000 women and 9,000 men)
will be recruited and trained to fill new posts and erase the backlog of vacancies, bringing the
total supply of teachers to 130,000 women and 150,000 men. As expenditures on non-salary
items rise from less than 1% to ov- r 10% of recurrent cost budgets, the supply of books and
other learning materials will improve. Institution-building will continue, including strengthening
of provincial and district-level management and improvements in the MIS, which will improve
implementation of primary education services. During the three years, some 15,000 primary
schools will be constructed, bringing the total to about 90,000. About 70% of the new schools
will be for girls, bringing that total to 40,500. Some 5,000 existing schools will be renovated
or rebuilt. Over the three years, the Gross Enrollment Rate (GER) for girls is expected to rise
from 55% to 76% and, for boys from 69% to 85%.
o Sindh: 7,500 male and 13,300 female teachers will be recruited to fill new posts
and long-standing vacancies, bringing the total number to 73,000 men and 30,000 women, who
will be trained through expanded in-service and pre-service training programs. Ongoing work
to improve provincial and local management of the primary education system will continue,
including the expansion of EMIS to district level and better school supervision. Some 5,660
girls' schools and 3,770 boys' schools will be built during the three-year period and about 2,100
schools will be renovated or rebuilt. Over the three years, the GER for girls should rise from
30% to 48% and the GER for boys from 56% to 74%.
o NWFP: All schools will allow cross-registration of boys and girls. Several new
Govermnent Colleges of Elementary Teacher Training will be constructed to meet the growing



53
need for primary school teachers, especially women, to staff the new schools. In-service teacher
training will be expanded, and mobile teacher training will be provided for women teaching in
remote areas. At the provincial level, planning and management capability will be improved as
will district offices. School supervision will be strengthened through training, improvements in
transport for learning coordinators, and greater community involvement in schools. Some 5,160
schools will be constructed, including 3,000 girls' schools and 300 coeducational; and about
2,400 will be renovated or rebuilt during the three-year period. The total number of schools will
thus rise to 24,000 including 7,000 girls' schools. It is expected that the GER for girls will rise
from 29% to 44% and for boys from 60% to 79%.
o Balochistan: Pre- and in-service teacher training programs, as well as mobile
teacher training for women in rural areas, will be expanded and provided for 13,000 men and
2,000 women. Some 2,000 men and 2,000 women teachers will be recruited, bringing the total
to 15,000 men and 4,000 women, and long-standing vacancies will be filled. The management
and implementation capacity of the Directorate of Primary Education will be improved and
EMIS units will be expanded to the district level. School supervision will be improved through
better transport of supervisors and learning coordinators and by encouraging community
involvement. Through an innovative program, some 200 rural communities which have never
had a school will organize each year to build their own school and find a literate woman from
the community to teach the children; these women will then be trained and paid by the
government. Participating parents will agree to send their own girls to the school. (During
1993/94, some 120 community schools have been built; enrollment and attendance rates for
students in these schools are very high.) Some 1,400 coeducational girls' schools will be
constructed and about 400 will be renovated or rebuilt during the three years. The GER for girls
is expected to rise from 15% to 29% and for boys from 49% to 72%.
o AJK and Federal Areas:
-- AJK: Some 500 men and 1,000 women teachers will be hired and trained.
A directorate of Primary Education will be established and a permanent NEMIS cell will be
located at each Directorate. About 250 new girls' schools will be built during the three year
program bringing the total to 4,200. The GER for girls is expected to rise from 89% to 95%
and for boys will remain at 100%.
-- FATA: In these most remote areas of Pakistan, some 540 girls' schools
and 240 boys' schools will be built during the three-year period, bringing the totals to 1,000 for
girls and 1,900 for boys. Buildings will be provided from 180 shelterless schools (mainly for
girls) and 300 schools will receive more classrooms. The GER for girls is expected to rise from
9% to 38% and for boys from 61% to 81%.
-- FANA: In the mountainous North of Pakistan, some 420 schools will be
built during the three years, bringing the total to 330 for girls and 460 for boys. Some 750
community schools will also be opened, and communities will also help reform curriculum, train
teachers, and supervise the schools. A permanent NEMIS unit will be established. The GER for



54
girls is expected to rise from 25% to 36% and for boys from 58% to 65%.
-- Islamabad Capital Territory: This area has achieved universal primary
enrollment; hence only 30 schools and 120 more classrooms will be provided. 180 teachers will
be recruited, and the planning and management capacity of the Federal Directorate of Education
will be improved, particularly through the addition of a NEMIS unit.
Primary Health Care
5.11      The Eighth Plan sets a range of ambitious targets including increasing life
expectancy by two years and reducing infant mortality by nearly 25%. To this end, the SAP
Project will help provide better quality and more available primary health care, particularly in
rural areas. This would improve the health and lower the fertility of the population generally,
but would especially benefit high-risk and underprivileged sections of the community. Women
would benefit particularly, through improved maternal health services, especially ante- and post-
natal care, and through increased availability of family planning services. The SAP will also
give more attention to preventive services (including immunization, malaria, respiratory diseases,
and, potentially, an AIDS program).
5.12      The SAP and the Projects will support critical quality improvements in the primary
health care system, starting with management reforms at all levels to improve implementation.
In addition, non-salary recurrent budgets, which have suffered badly in recent years, will
increase by 5% a year (in real terms) for each year of the Eighth Plan. Additional female
paramedical staff will be recruited and trained, together with extra staff for the communicable
disease program, so that after five years there should be one paramedical for 1,165 people.
Health education programs will be strengthened and essential drug lists introduced.
o Punjab: The province has the essential basic elements for service provision in
place; there is one health facility for every 10,000-12,000 people. Therefore, the focus of the
program and the reform measures is on making the system work better through, for example,
ensuring female staff are actually available in rural facilities (and a further 160 will be recruited
in 1993/94), introducing community health workers (in the first district in 1993/94), establishing
and enforcing referral systems, strergthened and decentralized management, and markedly better
availability of supplies through a substantially increased (22% in 1993/94) recurrent budget,
including a significant shift from 24% to 33% of the total allocated for non-salary expenditure.
o NWFP: This is the other province in which there will be virtually no
construction of new facilities, since the province has also reached one facility for every 10,000-
12,000 people. The emphasis is on quality improvements including up-grading existing facilities
(currently over 600, or some two-thirds of the total, in the five years but under review),
expanding recruitment of female paramedical workers by improving training and offering "hard
areas" allowances, maintaining coverage of the immunization program at over 85%, and sharply
increasing the distribution of oral rehydration salts.



55
o Sindh The construction program after being reviewed was reduced, with the
savings (Rs 40 million in 1993/94) allocated to priority communicable disease control programs.
Through the SAP dialogue, the non-salary recurrent budget for 1993/94 has been sharply
increased (by almost or 15% over 1992/93), which will partly restore badly eroded medicine,
maintenance and utility budgets in primary facilities.
o  Balochistan:  Since lack of female staff is a chronic problem, intensive
recruitment schemes and substantially improved service conditions and allowances are a central
part of the program. As in Sindh, the non-salary recurrent budget was badly eroded and has
been substantially increased for 1993/94 (again by some 15% compared with 1992/93). The
position of this province is rather different. The five-year program proposes about 200 new
rural facilities to meet the needs of the widely dispersed population, although this proposal
remains under review.
Population
5.13      The SAP -- and the SAP Project -- will support major expansion in family planning
services to begin to increase Pakistan's very low contraceptive prevalence rate (12%) and start
to reduce the very high rates of fertility (5.7) and population growth (3%). Ambitious targets
have been set for the five-year period of the SAP, including increasing the coverage of the
program to 100% in urban areas and 70% in rural areas (defined as family planning services
being available within 5 kms.), a near doubling of contraceptive use, and a 10% fall in the
overall population growth rate. Important aspects of the Government's five-year program
include: a crucial new village outreach program (increasing village workers from a few hundred
to 12,000, such that every village of 2,000 or more people has one worker); increased service
delivery points (including an extra 200 Family Welfare Centers and a doubling to 251 of the
Mobile Service Units); enlarged staff pre- and in-service technical training (over 4,000 trainees
during the five years); management enhancements (for example, management training up by
some 25%); and strengthened population information activities (including a 10% per annum
increase in mass media activities). Moreover, by the end of the Plan, over 6,500 health facilities
should offer family planning services, and social marketing will expand. Population education
in schools will also be sharply increased, and NGO activities are projected to double over the
five years.
RWSS:
5.14      In RWSS, a major shift in policy has occurred that will increase rural water supply
and sanitation coverage through more sustainable approaches with greater community
involvement and accountability. Under the Eighth Five Year Plan, an additional 18.3 million
people will obtain rural water supply services and 22 million more will have improved
sanitation. To reverse the past trend toward deterioration of existing services and promote
sustainability, a major effort will be made to include community and user groups in the design
and operation of RWSS programs and to increase cost recovery. In particular, responsibility for
operation and maintenance of RWSS programs will be shifted to communities, while reducing



56
operation and maintenance costs through shifts to more appropriate technologies and more
efficient local management. Some user charges will be instituted, particularly in towns.
Government agencies responsible for RWSS will be strengthened through training, and NGOs
will be encouraged to play a greater role in the provision of RWSS in cooperation with
communities.



57
VI. AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS
6.1       As discussed earlier, the SAP Project is based on a framework of annual agreements
on Operational Plans (budgets and reform measures), leading to government commitment and
action. Each year, in March/April, the governments will discuss with the Bank their intentions
for funding the recurrent and investment needs of the total program fer delivering the target
services, as well as the coming year's program of implementation reforms. The Bank will
confirm that the budgets, development plans and the reforms are agreed and therefore may be
supported with program funding via the SAPP.
6.2       The first annual agreement for 1993/94, is complete. During a preparation period
between December 1992 and June 1993 Bank staff and the MSU were in close contact with the
govermnents and discussed in detail their budgets, development plans and implementation reform
plans for the 1993/94 fiscal year. These discussions led to Operational Plans (including current
budgets, development plans and implementation plans or reforms) for 1993/94, which were
examined by IDA. Annexed to this report is a matrix of the implementation plans or reforms
agreed with the four provincial governments, AJK and the federal areas (Annex on
Implementation). The matrices summarize the government submissions and reflect in their
language the steps they have committed themselves to take. The key issues and proposals are
further summarized below.
Key Elements of the Policy Commitments
t    In public expenditures, the governments concerned will reach agreement
annually with the Bank on public expenditure programs in the SAP sectors,
both recurrent and development;they will provide a balance in terms of size
and composition between consolidation of past efforts and feasible cypansion
of new capacity based on actual achievement in the past year; and these will
ensure that all existing and new facilities are adequately staffed and
maintenance and non-salary inpttzi are adequately provided. Agreement on
a public expenditure program is a prior action.
o    In primary education, the governments will undertake to: (a) enhance girls'
enrollment in primary education and improve the efficiency of the system
through the introduction of co-education, steps to increase the recruitment of
female teachers, and acceleration of the opening of schools with female staff
and administration; and (b) strengthen primary education's institutions and
procedures by increasing the administrative focus on primary education,
through establishing or strengthening directorawes of primary education, or
their equivalent; follow uniform, merit-based site selection criteria for the
location of primary schools; revise and enforce posting and transfer policies
to reduce turnover and undue political interference; increase the provision of
non-salary items like books to improve quality; and improve the database by
strengthening and using the educational management information systems now



58
being formed in each of the provinces and at the federal level.
o    In primary health, the governments will commit themselves to: (a) establish
and use strategic planning mechanisms; (b) re-organize primary health care
services and finances to strengthen front line services, involving re-allocation
of available recurrent budgets to improve the availability of non-salary inputs
and strengthenin: district health offices; (c) decentralize administrative and
financial powers, focusing on the district level, to improve effectiveness; (d)
improve the gender balance in staffing by increasing the recruitment and
retention of female health staff; and (e) establish and follow rules of business
to expand the health departnent's participation in the population program.
o    In population, in addition to improving the outreach program, the
governments will commit themselves to (i) assure and protect adequate
funding for the population program in the Eighth Five Year Plan and
annually, starting with Rs 1.1 billion in 1993/94; and ensure timely releases
to the provinces; (ii) improve program management; (iii) increase the
participation and ownership of the provincial governments in the population
program by decentralizing more activities to the provinces, providing family
planning services through health department outlets, and including population
education in the formal school system; (iv) improve human resources within
the population program; (v) increase private sector participation, including
NGOs, in the delivery of family planning services; and (vi) ensure an
adequate supply of contraceptives.
o    In rural water supply and sanrtation,  the govermnents will commit
themselves to: (a) adopt a uniform policy for establishing and financing
RWSS, to avoid the almost complete subsidization that occurs now; (b)
introduce community management and participation in the design and
operation of RWSS; and (c) introduce effective cost recovery mechanisms.
6.3       The Federal and Provincial Governments, as the case may be, have provided the
following assurances:
(a)  that the GOP's overall level of spending on the SAP will rise to the levels agreed
with IDA within the framework of the SAP (Tables 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3); in no case
will these levels be allowed to fall below 2.05% of GDP in 1993/94, 2.15% in
1994/95 and 2.3% in 1995/96 (para. 3.7);
(b)  within that total expenditure, that the Governrment of Pakistan's own contribution
will rise to agreed target levels (Tables 3.2 and 3.3); 1.6% of GDP in 1993/94,
1.7% of GDP in 1994/95 and 1.8% of GDP in 1995/96 (par. 3.7);
(c)  that the priority of the service delivery in the SAP sectors will be protecteJ by



59
refraining from bans on recruitment of basic staff to deliver these services by the
Government of Pakistan, AJK, and the governments of the provinces and territories
(para. 2.23);
(d) that the governments participating in the SAP will prepare annual operational plans
setting forth inter alia proposed sub-programs to be carried out in each successive
year and agree with IDA each year on their expenditure and reform content (paras.
4.7, 4.8, 4.9);
(e)  that the governments participating in the SAP will implement their agreed
operational plans (which would include public expenditure on SAP services, a
program of implementation reform and a financing plan) for the SAP, to the
satisfaction of IDA (para. 4.10);
(f)  that the governments will carry out quarterly reviews of implementation of the SAP
and furnish IDA with progress reports; and will participate with IDA and other
donors in an annual review of each past year's performance as part of the process
of reaching agreement in each successive year's SAP (para. 4.22);
(g) that grants for the Participatory Development Program will be made in accordance
with procedure and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4.34, 4.35).
6.4       On the basis of the Project's benefits, and having obtained the above confirmations
and reached the above agreements with the Government of Pakistan, AJK, Punjab, Sindh,
Balochistan, NWFP and FATA, the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of SDR 145.2 million ($200 million equivalent) on standard terms with 35 years maturity.
The borrower would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



60
ANNEX I
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
Implementation Plan'
I. The Project
A. Project Summary
1.        The Social Action Program  Project provides a multi-sector investment and
maintenance credit to strengthen implementation of Pakistan's Social Action Program (SAP).
SAP is the name given to Pakistan's overall efforts to improve basic social services over the five
year period 1993/94-1997/98. The Project would help finance the first three years (1993/94-
1995/96) of the Program. The SAP covers both cross-sectoral and sector-specific programs and
issues. For planning and monitoring purposes, the SAP is divided into sub-programs. These
cover one of three basic social services -- primary education, primary health care, or rural water
supply and sanitation (RWSS) -- in one of Pakistan's four provinces, AJK and federal areas.
Others cover the national population program, and the federally administered Community
Disease Control Program. The Project also supports NGOs to promote community involvement
in the design and delivery of basic services; and it strengthens monitoring and evaluation. The
Project will complement existing social sector programs and projects, whether or not aid-
financed.
2.        The Government's Social Action Program, and the proposed SAP Project which
would support it, address Pakistan's relative weakness in basic social services, which has
become a major shortcoming in, and constraint on, Pakistan's development accomplishments.
Pakistan's GDP growth has been vigorous -- almost 6% per year in recent years. However, very
rapid population growth (about 3% annually) means that per capita income growth has been only
half as fast as GDP growth. Pakistan's health indicators and educational attainments fall far
below expected values for its income levels. Pakistan has agreed with the IDA and other donors
that a broad-based effort to improve the most basic social services is now needed. Effective
investments in basic social services will boost economic productivity, reduce poverty, and
promote smaller, healthier, and better educated families. Returns to investments that reach
women will be especially high for the economy and the society as a whole.
3.        A broad-based, "umbrella" approach is needed to complement existing programs and
projects because many of Pakistan's main problems in the social services are not sector-specific
I     This annex is designed to present in one place key information needed to
implement the project. It is meant to be separate from the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
As such, it repeats some of the content of the SAR.



61
but endemic, common across all services and areas of the country. These problems fall into three
general categories: (i) implementation of social services has been deficient; (ii) design of social
services has been flawed; and (iii) levels of effort in social services have been too low.
Underlying all three sets of problems are political considerations -- insufficient political
commitment at provincial and national levels and inappropriate political interference, particularly
at local levels. Weak institutions in the social sectors reflect past neglect. The SAP Project will
help to concentrate attention, resources, and political will on the basic social services.
4.        Improving Implementation.   Existing basic social services tend to operate
inefficiently. In particular, they suffer from poor planning and budgeting techniques,
bureaucratic delays in release and expenditure of allocated funds, recruitment bans and excessive
staff turnover, over centmlized management of dispersed front-line services, and insufficient
beneficiary participation. As a result, sector-specific, province-specific projects often disburse
more slowly and achieve less than planned. The SAP Froject will complement such projects by
addressing implementation problems common to all the basic social services. Solutions to many
of the implementation problems involve not just the sectoral ministries, but also the cross-
sectoral finance and planning ministries The SAP Project has already led to up-front actions that
relieve implementation problems, thereby strengthening existing projects. For instance, the SAP
Project dialogue has produced new mechanisms to protect and release social sector funds.
Recruitment bans have also been lifted for the social sectors. And efforts to encourage
beneficiaries to participate in and take more responsibility for their own social services have
been expanded, particularly in water supply and in education. The SAP Project will also address
sector-specific implementation problems, in ways that complement other projects in those
sectors.
5.        Improving Program Design. Social services in Pakistan ought to focus more on
basic or primary levels of social services, and the basic services ought to focus more on quality
and on access, especially for women and girls. The Social Action Program will shift the focus
to basic services. The SAP Project is laying particular emphasis on quality and access, by getting
agreement on minimum expenditures and by encouraging Pakistan to adopt approaches that have
worked in other countries. Some progress has already occurred, for instance in designing basic
services to involve beneficiaries and to include more female providers to serve other women and
girls. The SAP Project will also highlight sector-specific design issues, such as including more
family planning in health services. It thus reinforces sector-specific projects.
6.        Increasing Level of Effort.  As implementation capacity expands and design
improves, Govenmment expenditure on basic social services should increase. The SAP Project
builds visibility for the social services as a whole and focuses attention on this central level-of-
effort issue. Total expenditures on the basic social services will rise from less than 1.7% of GDP
in 1991/92 to over 2.6% in 1997/98. The Government's share of incremental costs will rise
from about 46% in 1993/94 to 59% in 1995/96 and about 69% in 1997/98.
7.        Building Political Will. One important underlying cause of all the weaknesses in
Pakistan's basic social services has been a history of a lack of political will to change. The SAP



62
Project has helped to build political commitment, by its very scope and by its reliance on annual
assessments to determine funding. Pakistan's three recent Governments all gave or give high
priority to the SAP and have taken important steps to fund and implement it.
8.        Operation of the Project. The SAP Project emphasizes a continuing policy dialogue,
phased funding, and competition for resources among provinces and sectors based on
performance. The Project is based on appraisal of the first three years of the Social Action
Program. But disbursements can be made only after the Bank and the Government reach
agreement with those responsible for each year's more detailed operational plans (including
budgets and implementation plans) through annual assessments. In effect, sub-programs compete
for funds. The annual budgets cover both development (investment) budgets and recurrent
budgets. The implementation plans specify prior actions and measurable targets for progress in
each year. The Project reimburses a share of the expenditures on the agreed programs. If
performance of a sub-program is weak, the current year's disbursements will be reduced by
failure to spend, or disbursements can be suspended entirely. The next year's agreement will
reflect past performance as well as new plans (again with prior actions and targets). The first
annual assessment, for 1993/94, was completed during appraisal; retroactive financing up to
20% is proposed. The SAP also includes US$6 million to strengthen the Government's
monitoring and management capacity and US$5 million to help non-government organizations
(NGOs) promote community involvemeuL in basic service delivery and improve cost-
effectiveness (with another $5 million to be allocated if this component proceeds well).
Project Costs and Financing
9.        The first three years of the five-year SAP will cost about $4 billion (development
and recurrent costs), including increments totaling about $1.5 billion over comparable earlier
expenditures. The Government expects to contribute about $3 billion of the total (about 76%)
and to use $552 million more in existing or expected donor assistance. It seeks funding for the
remaining gap of $418 million. IDA has reached agreement with the Government on the
framework of this three-year program, and the SAP Project would provide $200 million, 5 % of
the total cost and about 48% of the gap. The three-year program should be seen, however, in
the context of the five-year SAP. The full program will cost $7.7 billion, including increments
of about $3.2 billion over comparable earlier expenditures. The Government expects to
contribute $5.9 billion and to use $1.1 billion more in existing or expected donor assistance. It
seeks funding for a total gap of $0.7 billion for the five-year period. The Government has
undertaken to increase its share of incremental cost financing from 46% in 1993/94 to 59% in
1995/96 and 69% in 1997/98, which should be well within feasible limits.
Risks:
10.       The main risk is that so large and comprehensive a Project could over-strain the
management capacities of the Government and the supervisory resources of IDA. The Project
addresses this risk in five ways. First, it focuses on a few core issues to improve performance
of basic service programs and projects. Second, it exploits "joint products" through its structure:



63
work done for the Project will reinforce work done on province- and sector-specific activities
and vice versa. For IDA, this will permit dual-purpose supervisory missions. Third, it is helping
to build the Government's capacity to plan, budget, and implement. Fourth, a Multi-donor
Support Unit (MSU) has been established to help Government with the SAP and to improve
monitoring and donor coordination. Finally, the Project has a carefully designed and agreed
implementation plan.
11.       A second risk is that the intended reforms will not be achieved or will be seriously
delayed. This risk is addressed by unusually intensive monitoring through the MSU as part of
technical assistance to GOP; and by the phased annual release of funds based on annual
agreements reflecting performance and identifying prior actions and monitorable targets.
Moreover, the design of the Project draws on lessons learned from past and existing sector-
specific projects supported by IDA and other donors, who were closely involved in Project
preparations.
12.       A third risk is that the SAP Project will undermine existing donor- and IDA-
supported projects by providing a softer option with weaker conditionality than those projects
require. This risk is addressed by treating existing and expected aid as "above the line" when
defining the funding gap that the SAP Project will help fill, thus removing the temptation to
substitute Project funds for other aid. The risk is also addressed by including performance under
other aid projects in annual assessments of programs. The MSU also provides a channel for
communications between donors to help prevent such problems.
13.       A fourth risk is that Government commitment will weaken or fail. This risk too is
addressed by the phased funding and annual agreements. It is also addressed by the broad scope
2-id multi-ministerial team-building emphasis of the Project. And it is addressed by giving
imnportant oversight responsibilities to coordinating committees that include the highest political
levels of federal and provincial government -- the Prime Minister and the provincial Chief
Ministers -- as well as Cabinet Ministers and federal and provincial Secretaries.
14.       A fifth risk is that the SAP, and particularly its recurrent costs, will be financially
unsustainable because it depends too heavily on donors. The Project finances recurrent as well
as development costs because recurrent costs are the main costs of basic social services. These
costs are investments in human capital, in any event. Moreover, the Government will assume
a rising share of total as well as recurring costs as the SAP proceeds. Although SAP
expenditures will rise to 2.6% of GDP by the end of the Eighth Plan in 1997/98, this level is
well below levels of effort for basic social services in comparable low-income countries and
should be sustainable by the GOP, even as part of a stringent fiscal policy. The Project will also
emphasize the need for more beneficiary contributions and cost recovery, especially in RWSS.
Over time, donor financing of incremental SAP costs will fall, from 55% in 1993/94 to 41%
in 1995/96 and 30% by 1997/98. This is only slightly higher than the share of costs for basic
services that donors covered before the SAP began. If this Project does well, there could be a
subsequent one with a further decline in the share financed by donors.



64
Benefits:
15.        The SAP Project will contribute over 1993194 to 1995/96 to the Government's
Social Action Program to redress the generic weaknesses of basic social services in Pakistan.
The Project will help improve the quality of basic services and increase access, particularly for
women and the poor, thus promoting productivity, reducing poverty, and encouraging smaller,
healthier, better educated families. It will also help to slow Pakistan's exceptionally rapid
population growth.
16.        Gains in the four basic social services will be mutually reinforcing. For instance,
healthy, well nourished children are better able to learn. The most effective way to improve
children's health is to educate their mothers, while providing better health care. Satisfactory
rural water supply and sanitation reduce the high risk of diarrheal and other water-borne
diseases, and thus complement basic health services. As is well known, demand for, and use of,
family planning services rises when women and girls are better educated and when children
receive health care that increases their chances of survival to adulthood. Finally, improvements
in health and learning all promote greater economic productivity, for both men and women.
17.        The emphasis on basic services and greater community participation in their design
and implementation will mean that fewer services will be unwanted, under-used or poorly
maintained. Communities will feel a greater sense of "ownership" and will be more likely to
contribute to their costs. In addition, popular political support for Government programs is likely
to grow, thus enhancing Government commitment to investments in social services.
18.        Sector-specific Project benefits are difficult to separate from those of on-going donor
activities, since the Project supports the entire Government program for improving social
services. The SAP Project will, however, reinforce sector-specific IDA- and donor-supported
projects by increasing overall implementation capabilities, improving program design,
strengthening Government commitment, and supporting better monitoring of both inputs and
outputs in the social service sector.  Preparations for the Project have already produced
demonstrable improvements in both policy and program performance in several sectors and
provinces.
B. Detailed Project Description
1. Primary Education
19.        Status:    Pakistan's literacy and the gross enrollment rates (GER)2 are not
commensurate with the country's economic achievements. The present GER for primary
education of 58% and literacy rate of 30% are far below the corresponding averages for 'other'
2/ The gross enrolment ratio (GER) is defined as the gross enrollment in primary level classes (pre-school througi
5th grade) as a percentage of school age children. This ratio can exceed 100% due to enrollment of over- and under-age
children.



65
low income countries of 75% and 49%. Furthermore, the enrollment ratio for girls and female
literacy ratios are among the lowest in the world at 40% and 20%. Low enrollment partly
reflect moderate quality of education services offered: fewer than 1 in 5 pupils complete five
years of education. Nationwide data on performance of the education system mask significant
differences between and within provinces, and between rural and urban areas and males and
females. Primary-level GERs (including the pre-school or kachi class) ranged from about 65 %
in Punjab to 34% in Balochistan.
20.    Organization: The delivery of education is the responsibility of provincial governments.
and the federal govermment has a coordinating and policy-making role. In the past, primary
education has received too little priority when it was under the control of the provincial
Directorates of Schools, which favored secondary schools. Recently GOP has moved towards
establishing a Directorate of Primary Education, separate from a Directorate of Secondary
Education. Such "bifurcated" directorates currently exist in both Balochistan and NWFP; and
at district level and below in Sindh, while Punjab is in the process of setting up a Directorate
of Elementary Education. In addition, from district level down to schools, the administration
is duplicative and segregated by gender. In practice, the past neglect of girls' education meant
that the "female administration" is much smaller and weaker than the male administration and
the number of girls' schools is about one-third that of boys' schools.
21.    Issues: The education system does not use its resources efficiently and effectively;
hence the achievement of its stated goal of universal primary education is unlikely under present
institutional arrangements, even with increased financial resources. The officially segregated
dual administrative system is not only costly to operate, but the policy of segregated boys' and
girls' schools cause significant inefficiencies in locations where all school-age children of both
sexes could be accommodated by one school. Over 3000 schools in rural areas have less than
10 students. The segregated schools also lead to disadvantage for girls: once a boys' school is
opened the number of children is too small to justify opening a second school for girls in the
same village. The political process governing the hiring and transferring of teachers and
selection of school sites for school construction is another major source of inefficiency resulting
in over 2000 "schools" without students. Less desirable rural schools sometimes lose their
teachers who transfer to urban schools with surplus teachers. The rural school cannot replace
the absentee teacher because the post has been occupied. Weak planning processes failing to
examine the total program lead to fragmentation of inputs and duplication of effort. Past Five-
Year Plans have not been sufficiently realistic and have over-emphasized physical expansion,
with too little attention to quality. Plans have not provided for trained teachers and instructional
materials for every school building constructed and the Government's recurrent cost budgets
have traditionally devoted less than 1% to non-salary "quality' inputs such as books. Under-
utilization of existing facilities indicate that services have been inadequately designed and that
they are unresponsive to the needs of intended beneficiaries. In some areas, the Government
has not made use of the private sector in areas in which it has a comparative advantage, such
as publication of quality textbooks, and construction management. Better use of private sector
resources could reduce the recurrent cost burden of the Government considerably.



66
22.       The SAP Project: The SAP introduces a series of policy reforms in primary
education to address the systemic problems described above. Each provincial government has
carried out a series of up front actions prior to negotiations. These reform measures include:
1) increasing efficiency through officially allowing for cross-registration of girls in boys schools
and vice versa, and establishing new co-educational schools; 2) alleviating the problem of rural
schools without teachers due to frequent transfers by "localization" of teacher posts to prevent
transfer of a teacher originally appointed in a rural area to a vacancy in an urban area, or to
other jurisdictions; 3) increasing the number of female teachers in rural areas by relaxing entry-
age and qualification requirements; 4) enforcing needs-based site selection by using the
computerized Education Management Information System database; 5) strengthening
management's focus on primary education by delegating financial and administrative powers to
Directorates of Primary Education; 6) encouraging beneficiary participation by supporting
community schools; 7) supporting private sector participation through Education Foundations,
and contracting out construction management and establish evaluation criteria and procedures
for textbook publishing to include non-Govermment publishers.
23.       To improve planning and better integrate all ongoing and future government and
donor activities, the SAP aims to examine the province's primary education sector programs in
their totality, covering all activities in primary education regardless of funding sources, and
development and recurrent expenditures together. The program approach consists of an
integrative framework, strategies, criteria and planning procedures for the sector. The specific
size and composition of each year's plan are flexible and are agreed upon at annual reviews
following a logical planning process including assessment of needs and judgements on the
feasibility of the proposed program.  Feasibility will be judged on the basis of actual
achievements in the past year and on the backlog of work begun in the past year, to be
completed in the next year. The program approach will help ensure a proper balance between
construction and quality inputs, development and recurrent expenditures, and salary and non-
salary expenditures. Recurrent costs will be calculated on the basis of the number of all existing
and new classrooms in each province.
24.       The SAPP will support implementation of the Government's total program in
primary education in the four provinces and in the federal areas for 3 years between FY94 and
FY96. This includes support for implementation of policy reforms, and for expansion and
qualitative improvements of the system. Several components are similar in all provinces,
including support for institution building at the provincial, district and sub-district levels,
improved planning and data-driven management through, inter alia, expansion of the provincial
EMIS cells, and improvement of both the quantity and quality of educational inputs. The private
sector will be encouraged to expand its role in the provision of primary education through
support from provincial Education Foundations. Private sector involvement will also be sought
in the areas of construction management and supervision, and textbook development and
production. The size of civil works programs, teacher training and recruitment efforts and
expected increases in enrollments vary by province/area. Schools to be built will include
boundary walls, provision of toilets, water, and electricity particularly in girls' schools. The
respective programs and expected enrollment increases are detailed below.



67
25.       Punjab: Male and female primary school teachers will be trained and recruited as
required to fill new posts and make up for the existing backlog of vacancies. Institution
building, including gradual strengthening of district level management capabilities and of the
Punjab EMIS will continue. Over the three years an estimated 15000 schools will be
constructed, of which 70% will be for girls. Abou: 5000 existing schools will be reconstructed
or renovated. It is expected that the GERs for girls will rise from 55% to 76% and for boys
from 69% to 85%, respectively.
26.       Sindh: Male and female primary school teachers will be trained through expanded
pre- and in-service programs, and recrited as required to fll new posts and make up for the
existing backlog of vacancies. On-going work to improve provincial and local management of
the primary education system will continue, including establishment of district level EMIS cells,
and improved school supervision. An estimated 5660 girls schools and 3774 boys schools will
be constructed, and about 2166 schools will be reconstructed or renovated, during the three year
period. It is expected that the GERs for girls will increase from 30% to 48% and for boys from
56% to 74%, respectively.
27.       NWFP: At the provincial level, the planning and management capability of the
Deparanent of Primary Education will be strengthened and its implementation capacity
improved. District offices will receive additional resources and responsibilities for planning and
managing primary education activities. School supervision will be strengthened through training
and improving the mobility of learning coordinators, and, importantly, by stimulating increased
community involvement. An estimated 5162 mainly girls and "genderless" schools will be
constructed, and aoout 2400 will be reconstructed or renovated during the three years. Several
new Government Colleges of Elementary Training will be constructed to meet the growing need
for female primary school teachers resulting from the construction program. The in-service
teacher training program will also be expanded, and mobile teacher training will be made
available to females in remote areas. It is expected that the GERs for girls will increase from
29% to 44% and for boys from 60% to 79%, respectively.
28.       Balochistan: Male and female primary school teachers will be recmited as required
to fill new posts and make up for the existing bacldog of vacancies. The management and
implementation capacity of the Directorate of Primary Education will be strengthened. EMIS
cells will be established at the district level, and school supervision will be improved through
increased mobility of ASDEOs and learning coordinators, and through fostering community
involvement. An estimated 1400 schools without gender designation will be constuucted, and
about 400 will be reconstructed/renovated during the three years. Pre- and in-service teacher
training programs, as well as mobile teacher training for females in nrual areas, will be
expanded. It is expected that the GERs for girls will increase from 14% to 24% and for boys
from 46% and 60%.
29. Federal Areas:
(a) AJK: A Directorate of Elementary Education will be established and a permanent



68
NEMIS cell will be located at the Directorate. An estimated 250 schools will be
constructed during the three year program period, and teachers will be trained and
recruited as required. It is expected that the GERs for girls and boys will increase
to 95% and 100%, respectively.
(b)  FATA: Teacher training facilities will be expanded and improved, particularly for
females through added hostel space. 180 existing schools will be provided with
residential quarters for female teachers. Policies aimed at increasing enrollments,
including free textbooks, improved learning environment and milk distribution
programs, will be initiated. An estimated 540 girls' schools and 240 boys' schools
will be constructed during the three year period. Buildings will be provided for 180
shelterless schools and 300 schools will receive additional classrooms.  It is
expected that the GERs for girls and boys will increase to 38% and 81%,
respectively.
(c)  FANA: The primary education curriculum will be reformed, pre-and in-service
teacher training will be strengthened and supervision improved with the aid of
communities. A permanent EMIS cell will be established. An estimated 420
schools will be constructed during the three years, and 750 village schools will be
opened with the support of local communities. It is expected that the GERs for girls
and boys will increase to 36% and 65%, respectively.
(d)  ICT:  The planning and management capacity of the Federal Directorate of
Education will be improved, particularly through the addition a NEMIS cell. The
ICT has already achieved universal primary enrolment; hence only a limited
construction program of an estimated 30 schools and 120 additional classrooms is
required. Teachers will be recruited as required.
30.       Links to Other IDA/Donor Projects: Every province has five to seven donor
projects under the primary education component of SAP, and about 80% of current donor
financing comes from IDA. These donor projects represent about 70% of the development
budget for education, with recurrent costs to be borne by the Government. However, the
Government has been unable to fully finance the recurrent costs of expanding primary education,
leaving schools without enough teachers, and teachers without enough instructional materials.
The SAPP support would remedy these deficiencies through budgetary support for recurrent and
development costs, where gaps exist. The SAPP supports the implementation of these ongoing
and planned projects and program by reinforcing the key policy measures introduced and
providing an integrated framework to facilitate implementation.
2. Primary Health Care
31.       Status: general health indicators are improving slowly but remain poor (the under-
five mortality rate for girls was 139 and for boys 137, compared with averages of 96 and 104



69
respectively for all low-income countries). The Eighth Plan sets a range of ambitious targets
including increasing life expectancy by two years and reducing infant mortality by nearly 25%.
Although the establishment of a primary health care program (PHC) has been a government
objective for over a decade, nowhere in Pakistan has a strong, large-scale PHC program yet
been successfully organized. National PHC policy is generally sound, especially in its emphasis
on MCH, but implementation has been weak, especially in remote rural areas. Yet Pakistan has
recorded a major achievement in the construction of an extensive network of basic health
facilities throughout the country; over 95% of Union Council areas now have a facility. The
next step will be to improve the functioning of these facilities while gradually expanding to the
areas that remain under-served.
32.       Organization: the federal government establishes health policy, including that for
PHC, while the provincial governments are responsible for its execution. In practice, thie
provincial Departments of Health implement all PHC programs (although the federal government
provides supplies for e.g. the immunization and malaria programs). PHC programs run mainly
through the Departmental line hierarchy (provincial, district, sub-district and individual facility)
although many of the communicable disease programs have partly parallel supervisory systems.
The overall result is a complex organization structure.
33.       Issues: a wide range of issues need to be solved before reasonable quality PHC
services will be available to most people in Pakistan. Financing of the sector generally is
inadequate (typically less than 3% of public expenditure) and that for PHC particularly
inadequate. PHC services are of poor quality for a number of reasons. Despite the general
availability of small health facilities, they are often inadequately staffed, and attendance by staff
is erratic. Small health facilities are especially short of female paramedical staff (there are only
some 3,000-3,500 qualified female paramedical staff in the rural public health system). Key
supplies--medicines, contraceptives and equipment--are very poor. The supply of medical and
paramedical staff is severely unbalanced; for example, there may be as many as 6,000
unemployed doctors. Most doctors are untrained in PHC work. And in-service PHC training
for all staff needs to be organized. Funding for key non-salary items, such as medicines and
petrol, is seriously deficient (around 25-30% of the total PHC recurrent budget in most
provinces) and tending to decline. Very few family planning services are provided through the
PHC system; health education is in its infancy; anI preventive and control programs have low
priority. Management capabilities throughout the PHC system are very limited, and the
difficulties are compounded by the complexity of the system and inadequate decentralization.
Hence, supervision of PHC services is weak. The critical referral connections between the
primary and the first and second referral levels are very poor. How to provide cost-effective
services to scattered populations, especially in Balochistan, has yet to be solved. On the other
hand, especially in urban areas the extensive private commercial sector (modem and traditional)
and its potential for a start to involvement in PHC should be encouraged. NGOs are
substantially involved in PHC, but the number and range of their activities is limited (there are
only about 10-15 large NGOs working in PHC) and need to be expanded. The overall
consequence of this set of inter-related issues is that PHC services are of inadequate quality,
have little outreach and are severely under-used, particularly by women.



70
34.       The SAP Project: The SAP Project will strengthen the PHC system  in the
forthcoming PHC investment and recurrent programs. Particular attention will be given to
achieving sufficient non-salary recurrent budgets, including increases in tde present year to
maintain the real value (particularly in Balochistan and Sindh), and subsequently real annual
increases of at least 5% for each of the three years of the SAP. The agreements will also ensure
that a full range of PHC services will be provided and that promotive and preventive services
are properly resourced (especially the malaria and immunization programs). Service content will
also be strengthened by providing more family planning services (to some 6,500 health facilities
by the end of the Plan) by expanding health education and by introducing essential drugs lists.
More specifically, programs of new facility construction will be examined and, if necessary, cut-
back to essential and modest levels. Additional female paramedical staff will be recruited and
trained, together with extra staff for the communicable disease control programs (the five year
target is that there should be one paramedical for 1165 people). Management and planning
systems will be strengthened, especially through improved delegation, staff training, and better
resourced health planning units.
35.       The overall PHC programs are similar between provinces, but the provincial
emphasis varies. The PHC system is most developed in Punijab, with the essential basic
elements for service provision in place; there is one health facility for every 10-12,000 people.
Therefore, the focus of the program and the reform measures is on making the system work
better through, for example, ensuring female staff are actually available in rural facilities,
introducing community health workers (in the first district in 1993/94), establishing and
enforcing referral systems, strengthening and decentralizing management, and ensuring markedly
better availability of supplies through a substantially increased (22% in 1993/94) recurrent
budget (including a significant shift from 24% to 33% of the total allocated for non-salary
expenditure). NWFP is the other province in which there is virtually no construction of new
facilities because they have also reached the level of one facility for every 10-12,000 people.
The emphasis is therefore on quality improvements including up-grading existing facilities
(currently over 600, or some two-thirds of the total, in the five years), expanding recruitment
of female paramedical workers, training, increasing introduction of "hard areas" allowances for
women, maintaining coverage of the immunization program. at over 85%, and sharply increasing
the distribution of oral rehydration salts. Sindh is unusual in having a large unfinished rural
facility construction program of some 300 rual facilities carried over from tiie last Plan together
with plans for additional construction. This is being reduced, with the savings (Rs 40 million
in 1993/94) allocated to priority communicable disease control programs. Through the SAP
dialogue the non-salary recrurrent budget for 1993/94 has been sharply increased (15% over
1992/93) which will partly restore badly eroded budgets for medicine, maintenance and utility
in primary facilities. The position of Balochistan is rather different. The five year SAP
program proposes 210 new rural facilities to meet the needs of the widely dispersed population;
the cost-effectiveness of this approach is under review. The lack of female staff is a chronic
problem; intensive recruitment schemes and substantially improved service conditions and
allowances are a central part of the program. As in Sindh, the non-salary recurrent budget was
badly eroded and has been substantially increased for 1993/94 (by some 15% compared with
1992/93). Overall, as in the population and education sectors, progress has already been made



71
this year through the SAP dialogue, for example, in recruiting for female paramedical staff and
in improving their conditions of service, on staff training for family planning, and on delegation
of authority to districts.
36.       Links to other IDA/donor projects: IDA has two Family Health projects, covering
the four provinces, being implemented. They focus on PHC service development, with an
emphasis on MCH. The other sizeable PHC projects include two financed by ADB, one in
NWFP and Balochistan focusing on facility development, and the other concentrating on
paramedical staff development. UNICEF and WHO are active in a wide variety of PHC
technical areas; a few bilateral donors (for example ODA, CIDA) also contribute. Previous
large-scale USAID assistance for PHC has virtually ceased. The design of the SAP Project
reflects much of the implementation experience of these other projects. It will complement them
by reinforcing their messages, for example by emphasizing the critical need for training and
hiring more female staff, improving service quality and management, and giving proper attention
to preventive and promotive services.
3. Population Welfare
37.       Status: Pakistan's population continues to grow very rapidly at 3% annually, its total
fertility rate is 5.7, and the prevalence rate for contraception only 12%. Despite over thirty
years of Government-sponsored family planning programs, the national population program still
does not function effectively, and availability of family planning services remains very limited.
Recent policy has improved, but implementation--as in primary health--has been poor. To
address these problems, the Government is seeking to revitalize the population program
particularly through a major increase in service availability. Very ambitious targets have been
set including increasing the coverage of the program to 100% in urban areas and 70% in rural
areas (defined as family planning services being available within 5 kms.), a near doubling of
contraceptive use, a four point reduction in the crude birth rate, a 10% fall in the overall growth
rate.
38.       Organization: unusually for a field program in Pakistan, the population program is
entirely federally financed but jointly implemented by the federal and provincial governments.
In practice, federal control remains substantial through the central Ministry of Population
Welfare (MPW); provincial Departnents of Population Welfare (DPWs) focus on day-to-day
implementation. The provincial Departments are currently being substantially expanded with
the addition of new organizational levels at the division and sub-district levels, putting them on
a similar footing to other provincial line departments. At present, the government population
program includes 1290 clinics, 79 main contraceptive surgery centers, 130 mobile service units,
and some 3,000 health facilities of other agencies offering family planning. A new crucial
village level initiative is beginning.
39.      Issues: the program needs to solve a wide range of problems before it will become
genuinely effective. Unmet demand for services seems to be significant (about 40% of women



72
wart to avoid another pregnancy), suggesting that good-quality services would be welcome.
Earlier government initiatives have suffered from limited political support and premature
revisions. Total program financing has always been modest, but under the SAP the 1993/94
budget of Rs 1,100 million represents a 43% increase over the previous year. New initiatives
are being introduced and have already been strongly endorsed by the Governments. These
initiatives appropriately focus on improving service quality (including contraceptive method
choice, sound counselling, and readily available relevant information), combined with much
more active village-level outreach. Work on operationalizing these initiatives is well in-hand,
but needs strengthening (including the critical field supervision). Links with the independent
government PHC services also need strengthening. Population and PHC services are potentially
mutually reinforcing, with MPW/DPWs focusing on motivation and community outreach in
addition to routine family planning service provision, while primary health facilities focus more
on referral especially for clinical contraceptive methods, and on general MCH requirements,
including the benefits of birth-spacing. Similarly, although the program is designed to be multi-
sectoral, links with other key agencies (particularly education) need strengthening for this to be
effective. Management of the program remains centralized. The provincial level and below
need strengthening to permit responsibilities and accountability to be delegated, to handle the
expanding program, and to improve supervision. NGOs already provide a substantial part of
all family planning services, cost-effectively. They net . o be further supported to expand, and
to experiment with innovations. Other private sector in;uatives such as social marketing have
proved successful and should be expanded. The potential of the large number of private sector
health providers should also be encouraged.
40.       The SAP Project: would address many of the above issues. Unlike the other three
sectors included in the SAP, a fully detailed program for the coming five years for population
has been prepared by the Government. The SAP project would support and supplement this
program. Important aspects include sharply expanded village outreach (increasing village
workers from a few hundred to 12,000, such that every village of 2,000 or more people would
have one worker), increased service delivery points (including an extra 200 Family Welfare
Centers and a doubling to 251 of the Mobile Service Units), enlarged staff pre- and in-service
technical training (over 4,000 trainees during the five years), management enhancements (for
example, management training up by some 25%), and strengthened population information
activities (including a 10%  per annum increase in mass media activities).  Additional
developments incorporated in the SAP include: measures to protect program funding and to
ensure that funds are available on time throughout the administrative hierarchy; for the first
time, that population is reflected in provincial budgeting, accounting and reporting systems;
strengthening of planning, operational research, and monitoring systems; steps begun to
decentralize the program to the provinces and to delegate more powers to the district level:
strengthening links to provincial Health Departments including through changed job descriptions
and the introduction of family planning in pre-service curricula (by the end of the Plan, over
6,500 health facilities should offer family planning services); sharply speeding-up the
establishment of population education in schools; reviewing and improving the contraceptive
supply system; protecting and if possible expanding NGO projects including strengthening NGO
funding chamels (NGO activities are projected to double during the five years); and continuing



73
the social marketing of contraceptives. With the number of initiatives being taken, adjustments
will be essential to the approved five year program and an annual mechanism for this has been
agreed. Such changes otherwise would have been very difficult to make. Through the SAP
dialogue, significant overall progress has already been made although difficult issues remain.
41.       Links to other IDA/Donor Projects: donor support for the sector is currently limited.
iDA, in addition to the SAP population work, is preparing a new population project--its first for
over five years--which would support the national program. It is expected to start in 1995. The
ADB has just approved its first population project focussing mainly on community outreach and
staff development. UNFPA is active in a wide variety of technical areas; a few bilateral donors
(for example ODA) also contribute to key components of the government program. USAID was
by-far the largest single population donor, but all their assistance has now stopped. The lesign
of the SAP Project population component draws heavily on the experience of earlier lonor
projects with all of the few donors involved in the sector having contributed directly to the
preparation of the SAP Project. Several donors are likely to reinforce key elements of their
existing and planned projects through establishing specific links to the SAP dialogue, especially
in areas such as institution building, decentralization, improved contraceptive logistics, and
strengthened ties with government health facilities.
4. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
42.       Status. Pakistan has set ambitious goals for extending the coverage of rural water
supply and sanitation services to its inhabitants for this decade. It is estimated that 80% of all
cases of sickness and disease in the country are due to inadequate supply of safe drinking water
and sanitation. Despite the high priority accorded by the Government, only about half of the
total population have access to safe drinking water. While about 85% of urban population is
covered, the coverage for the rural areas is less than 45%, with varying service levels across
provinces. Azad Jamtnu and Kashmir, Balochistan and Sindh are the worst provided, with 1991
coverage of 41%, 22% and 46% respectively. Despite the low coverage, repeated surveys find
the quality of water provided through the rural water schemes has been below the acceptable
standards. Of the rural population deemed to have an adequate supply of drinking water, more
than half is served by hand pumps (mostly concentrated in the sweet water areas of Punjab and
Sindh). These hand pumps are not sealed, permitting infiltration of contaminated surface water
rendering the water unsafe. Due to high cost and inappropriately designed latrines, lack of
perceived need, and limited government promotion of health benefits associated with hygiene,
only 12 % of the rural population have means to safe sanitation (compared to 55 % for the urban
population).
43.       One additional factor that will influence the future development of the sector is
population growth, and the spatial distribution pattern in rural areas which results in high unit
costs of basic water and sanitation services, endangering their affordability to the rumral poor.
The need thus exists to concentrate on low-cost technologies and staged approaches to the
provision of these services in order to permit the implementation of sustainable schemes.



74
44.       Organization.  Under the Constitution of Pakistan, the provincial and state
governments have responsibility for water, sanitation, and local government affairs.
Nevertheless, as in most of the other social sectors, the Federal Government has considerable
influence over the planning process and program funding. The Physical Planning and Housing
Section of the Planning Commission is responsible for processing water supply and sanitation
investments as the part of the Annual Development Plan (ADP). At the provincial/state level,
sector activities are coordinated by the Planning and Development (P&D) Departments which
are also responsible for planning and coordinating development activities in the province/state,
including the ADP's foreign aid components. The Public Health Engineering Departments
(PHEDs) are the main sector implementing agencies at the provincial level. These were initially
set up to provide services to the urban areas, but because of the growing need, have recently
been involved in the rural areas as well with a primary focus on medium and larger settlements.
The Departments for Local Government and Rural Development (DLGRD) are community-
oriented and are responsible for supervision and coordination of the functions of District and
Union Councils, including basic services such as water supply, community health, drainage and
education. The District Councils, on the other hand, have the responsibility for disbursement
of ADP grants and their own resources for specific schemes. Union Councils are the lowest
level in the local govenmment with each council covering some 10-18 villages. Their
responsibilities include, among other functions, water supply, sanitation and disposal of solid
waste.
45.       The multiplicity of institutions has led to overlapping responsibilities, contradictory
policies, management deficiencies, and unqualified staff. Donors introduce technologies which
require a level of maintenance not available in Pakistan into the projects they fund. In addition,
the intended beneficiaries did not change behavior or attitudes that are critical to the project
success because they were not participants of the decision-making process of the new schemes.
The failure to mobilize the will of the people is one of the major reasons why many schemes fell
into disrepair.
46.      Issues. To improve water and sanitation services, and to achieve the national sector
goals, the financial arrangements of the sector have to be improved to foster increased
investment productivity, higher user cost recovery, and better utilization of the existing facilities.
The major fnancial constraints in the sector are:
(a) Over-dependence on federal or provincial grants and the donor community. An
analysis of the investments made from 1989 to 1992 indicates that over 98% of the
investment resources came from federal or provincial grants and from the donor
community. The availability of these moneys allows designs and construction to take
place outside the realities of cost considerations and provides little incentives for the
effective operation and maintenance of the schemes. In addition, the limited
resources do not allow an adequate increase in coverage.



75
(b)  Lack of consistency of the policy framework. These different sources of financial
assistance to the sector result in an arbitrary allocation of funds and hidden subsidies
and system inefficiencies.
(c) Weakl" enforced policies of communitv provision of O&M resources. The weak
enforcement of community provision of O&M resources often has resulted in
inadequate arrangements to pay for operation and maintenance costs; neither the
community, the local council nor the provincial govermments have provided
adequate funds resulting in deterioration of the systems and unpaid electricity bills.
(d)  Low cost recovery. High capital cost, lack of consumer affordability, poor water
supply services, and the notion that water supply is a "free public good" have been
used to explain political resistance to enforced cost recovery. As a consequence, the
objective of sustainability is largely defeated. A scheme-specific pricing policy for
rural water supply is a more effective method for sustainability, as evidenced by
world experience in community-managed schemes. Most community-managed
schemes collect recurrent funds on an ad hoc basis, often maintaining a small fund
for use as required.
(e)  Deficient investment plnning and analysis. Too often, the rural water supply and
sanitation systems in Pakistan are over-designed or do not take into account proper
phasing and least cost analysis. There is a tendency to build new schemes, and
alternative solutions such as more efficient use of the existing facilities are often not
considered.
47.       SAP Project. The governments commit themselves to:
(a)  adopt a uniform policy for establishing and financing RWSS, to avoid the almost
complete subsidization that occurs now;
(b)  introduce community management and participation in the design and operation of
RWSS;
(c)  the full operation and maintenance costs for existing schemes until transferred to the
community;
(d)  formulate a strategy and take steps toward implementing that strategy to introduce
community participation in existing schemes in the long-run; and
(e)  introduce effective cost recovery mechanisms.
48.       A major shift in the policy environment of the rural water supply and sanitation
sector has already taken place; however, an important concern is that a large part of the rural
population in Pakistan still lacks access to safe and sufficient water for domestic purposes. This



76
concern is much greater in sanitation. Furthermore as a large portion of the existing systems
are not functional, the actual coverage level is even lower than what is shown in statistics. The
proposed project aims to support GOP's sector strategy to reverse this deterioration, and would
finance agreed investments in the first three years of the Eighth Five-Year Plan.
49.       The Five-Year Plan (FY94-99 . The Eighth Five-Year Plan prepared by the GOP
intends to increase rural water supply and sanitation coverage, build sustainable schemes, and
develop a system which encourage community participation. The Appraisal mission reviewed
the Plan and found that it is sound in concept. The Eighth Five-Year Plan is expected to provide
services on a sustainable basis for an additional 18.3 million people with water supply and 22.0
million people with adequate sanitation. It was agreed that the following sectoral issues which
act as impediments for implementing the government strategy, need to be addressed during
project implementation.
The Reform Agenda
(a)  Sustainability. Experience in Pakistan shows that water supply and sanitation
services which are provided by public bodies are not properly maintained. This
results in a generalized lack of sustainability of the initial benefit and a waste of the
original investment. Many of these facilities are technologically inappropriate,
incorrectly located, socially unacceptable, environmentally unsound, not very user
friendly, or suffer from a combination of some or all of these limitations. Often,
recipient communities do not perceive such facilities as belonging to them and,
hence, take no responsibility for maintenance or continuing operation of the
schemes. In addition, the public bodies are not well equipped to handle the task,
especially given the widely scattered and often remote locations which have to be
served. Lack of financial resources, the high cost of capital replacement and the
lack of trained personnel and staff motivation contribute to the problem of
sustainability. Unlike government bodies, most rural communities have both the
capability and willingness to maintain water supply and sanitation schemes, if they
take on responsibility for the initial construction and if they feel that the systems are
their own property.
(b)  Full Commitments for Community Management. Although the general agreement
to transfer the management of schemes to communities calls for the future reduction
of the O&M expenses, the non-development budgets of all the provinces and federal
areas do not indicate this trend. A progressive decrease in the O&M expenses of
schemes should therefore be reflected in the five year plan. Furthennore, the
percentage of salary expenses also show an increasing trend, which should gradually
slow down. It was agreed that the year's non-development budget will reflect the
above recommendations.
(c) Implementation Capacity. The mission accepted the proposed development budgets
with the understanding that the implementation capacity of the line departments will



77
be enhanced with the involvement of the NGOs. The governments recognize that
both the PHED and LGRDD are severely under-equipped, especially in the requisite
community mobilization and training skills, for the major tasks ahead. It was
agreed that each line department will prepare the procedures to be adopted to
promote and involve NGOs in the implementation of the SAPP by Appraisal.
(d)  PHED O&M Staff. One of the major constraints for transferring the management
of the schemes to the communities is the PHED O&M staff. As schemes are
transferred to the communities the PHED, O&M staff will be rendered surplus. To
avoid/reduce this constraint, it was agreed that each PHED will prepare (i) a plan
for retraining or helping O&M staff to move into the private sector, and (ii) a
proposal of a program of retrenchment of others by offering them a golden
handshake. Several provinces are considering the possibilities of assisting staff to
create their own O&M/construction companies for which a special fund would be
required.
(e)  Sanitation.  In spite of an extremely low sanitation coverage, most of the
development plans are stidi heavily biased towards water supply schemes only. It
was agreed that preparation of the 1994/95 development budgets will take in.o
account the lack of sanitation in the communities. This low sanitation coverage
hampers the achievement of better health indicators.
50.       The 1993/96 Plan. The proposed project is addressing the financial gap of the three-
year Plan. The Plan is going to be reviewed every year to take into account the real investments
made the previous year and the actual capacity building achieved. As proposed, the FY94-96
Plan will increase the services coverage of water supply and sanitation.
51.       The 1993/94 Plan. The 1993/94 Plan has been appraised in detail and an agreement
has been reached in Punjab, NWFP, Sindh, Balochistan and the Federal Areas. The exception
is FATA. The UNDP/World Bank Regional Water and Sanitation Group (RWSG-SA) in
Islamabad is assisting the FATA, to revise its 1993/94 Plan, and develop a strategy coherent
with the SAP Donors Guidelines.
52.       Links to other IDA/Donor Projects: The major donor-aiided project in the RWSS
sector is the IDA funded Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, which covers Sindh,
Balochistan and AJK. There are a variety of donor-aided interventions in search of community-
based solutions, including a program by UNICEF and the Government of German's KFW and
GTZ programs in several provinces. The SAP has maintained an integrated approach to
complement the on-going efforts in RWSS, both in terms of financing and program design.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
53.       The Monitoring and Evaluation program is comprehensively presented in the SAP
Project Staff Appraisal Report itself (Chapter IV). The key implementation tool for the



78
monitoring committees mentioned in the SAR are the monitoring indicators. These have been
agreed between the provincial and federal governments and the donors, including IDA. The
format of these indicators are attached to this annex as Attachment One.
6. The Participatory Development Program (PDP)
54.       As noted in Chapter 2, the SAP Project will include a program to explore new
approaches for involving communities, testing innovative ways to deliver social services at the
community level, and fostering stronger linkages between communities, NGOs, and Government
services in the SAP sectors. The Participatory Development Program (PDP) will provide funds
to NGOs and others to innovate, demonstrate and institutionalize new working partnerships
between communities and government agencies to rehabilitate and deliver SAP target services.
It is intended that $10 million will be provided for the PDP, with $5 million to be allocated
beginning in 1994/95. An additional $5 million will be allocated if the program proves
successful.
55.       The SAP's effectiveness can be enhanced by creating and supporting strong
community organizations which government line agencies can use to: a) deliver social services
that communities -want, are willing to pay for and will use; and b) establish community
willingness to manage, monitor or take care of services provided. Community organizations
need to be strengthened and new community based delivery approaches demonstrated on a large
scale. However, successful institution building at the community level through participatory
decision making is by definition demand- based, time-intensive and location-specific. It precedes
technical inputs from line agencies and requires the presence of intermediary support groups that
can respond to cross sectoral community needs. Field based NGOs are best placed to undertake
this community organizational work and act as intermediaries, facilitating linkages between
communities and various govermnent agencies.
56.      It is estimated that there are approximately 10,000 NGOs in Pakistan, most of which
are small and have not worked in direct collaboration with government line agencies in the social
sectors. The NGO sector in Pakistan is not as developed as in other countries in South Asia.
There are many policy and procedural obstacles to successful NGO operation on any scale in
Pakistan. These include: taxation policies, govermnent procedures regulating NGOs and
complicated procedures to access funds; inherent difficulty in channelling assistance and
assessing the performance of thousands of small and scattered NGOs; lack of interest and
experience among line agencies in working with NGOs. However, the new government
recognizes NGOs as important development partners in improving the Human Development
indicators in Pakistan.
57.       Despite the obstacles, and inspired by the successes of community based programs
such as AKRSP (Aga Khan Rural Support Program) and OPP (Orangi Pilot Project), several
large scale Rural Support Programs and apex NGO organizations have become operational in
the last few years. These organizations support and create a network of well functioning
conmmunity based organizations in limited geographic areas, either directly or by financing



79
smaller NGOs. They have been financed by the GOP and international agencies.
58.       Hence, there is need for NGOs to support new community, NGO and government
partnerships in (i) implementation of SAP sector activities where community organization work
has already been undertaken; (ii) direct support to community based social sector activities where
demand is high; (iii) pilot projects to demonstrate community managed approaches where
necessary; and (iv) policy refinement to remove existing bottlenecks (including funding
mechanisms) to effective community, NGO and government partnerships.
59.       No new institutions will be created. The PDP will operate through existing
institutions and mechanisms to ensure strengthening of existing organizatiorns and timely access
to funds by NGOs. The PDP will consist of grants directly to NGOs with a proven track record
and field presence. These NGOs or other community outreach organizations will be requested
to submit detailed project proposals to the Federal SAP coordinating unit. The proposals will
be reviewed by the P&D and submitted to the Bank for approval. While the proposal and work
programs will be for longer periods, funds will be approved on a yearly basis based on previous
performance. No proposal below $100,000 will be considered.
60.       Grant money will be transferred upon authorization by EAD direc.ly to the pre-
qualified NGOs on a six monthly basis. IDA will provide credit funds to the GOP for this
purpose through a Special Account opened for the purpose. All the NGOs will submit quarterly
progress reports documenting progress on agreed indicators and financial statements; financial
reporting and audits will be conducted in accordance with EAD procedures for NGOs on behalf
of the Bank. In addition to undertaking quarterly monitoring visits, P&D will organize yearly
evaluations of the NGOs and together with the Bank organize and manage the final evaluation
of the component.
61.       The monitoring and evaluation of this component will be integrated into the overall
M&E framework for the SAP. The M&E framework will incorporate capacity building
indicators and participatory methods including beneficiary assessment procedures. The UNDP-
World Bank Water and Sanitation Program will provide technical expertise and monitoring
support to the rural water sector activities financed under the PDP.



80
C. Project Costs
Costs of the Social Action Program
(Current USS million and Rs million)
In Current US Dollars (Million)  In Current Rupees (Million)
Three-     Five-                 Thrce-      Five-
Starting   Year       Year       Starting    Year       Year
Year    Program    Program       Year    Program    Program
(1993/94) (FY94-96)  (FY94-98)   (19S3/94) (FY94-96)  (FY94-98)
PUNJAB                           532      1.789       3.457      16,184    57.242     112.832
Education                     362       1,259      2,434      11,023    40,276      79,455
Health                         79        260         532       2,412     8,314      17,353
RWSS                           90        270         491       2,750     8,652      16,024
SINDH                            237        782       1,471       7.204    25,031      47,998
Education                      175        578       1,096       5,335    18,497      35,760
Health                          36        105         190       1,096     3,345       6,204
RWSS                            25        100         185         773     3,189       6,034
NWFP                             157        594       1.156       4,790    19.002      37.729
Education                       99        378         736       3,024    12,088      24,016
Health                          19         99         182         579     3,156       5,956
RWSS                            39        117         238       1,188     3,758       7,757
BALOCHISTAN                      116        364         689       3,517    11.659      22.50
Education                       57        168         315       1,736     5,375      10,280
Health                          23        107         218        694      3,436       7,123
RWSS                            36         89         156       1,087     2,849       5,100
PROVINCIAL SUB-TOTAL            1 041     3.529       6.773      31.695   112.934     221,063
Education                      694      2,382       4,581      21,117    76,236     149,512
Health                         157        570       1,122       4,781    18,250      36,636
RWSS                           190        576       1,070       5,798    18,447      34,915
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR              28        104         207        837      3,319       6,772
Education                      17         65         130         524     2,076       4,236
Health                          5         20          41         164       652       1,330
RWSS                            5         18          37         149       591       1,207
FEDERAL SUB-TOTAL                 88        387         751       2,667    12.377      24.521
Other Federal Areas             36        137         275       1,108     4,393       8,964
Education                      19        79         166         563     2,522       5,408
Health                          7        26          49         201       845        1,608
RWSS                           11        32          60         341      1,027       1,947
Population                     35        173         350       1,054     5,533      11,425
Communicable Disease Control    16        66         116         475     2,099       3,773
Participatory Development Program   0      5           5           0       160         163
SAP Monitoring & Evaluation      1         6           6          30       192         196
NATIONAL TOTAL                  1.156     4.020       7.731      35.2          0      252.356



81
D. FinancinR Plan
Sources of Funding for the SAP in FY93/94-95/96
(Current US$ million)
Total    %
Government's internal resources    3.050    75.9
Existing/expected aid                5       13.7
Program Assistance                   313
IDA (SAP Project)                  200      5.0
ADB                                100      2.5
Government of the Netherlands       13      0.3
Additional Assistance to be Mobilized
Possible Sources
Other Sources, Including IDA/ADB/
Netherlands                        105      2.6
Total                           4,020    100.0
Disbursements
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
1993/94    1994/95   1995/96
Annual Disbursements     50          80        70
Cumulative Disbursements  50        130        200



82
II. Inplementation Arrangements
A. Overal responsibility
62.       The Government of Pakistan (GOP), and its political sub-units, are the implementing
agencies of the Social Action Program, with GOP's Planiing Division acting as the sponsoring
and coordinating agency. The Secretary of Planning has overall responsibility for the national
SAP and for the SAP Project. He is assisted by the Federal SAP Secretariat, a unit in the
Planning Division. In addition to these coordinating and sponsoring roles, the Planning Division
has direct responsibility for implementing two project components -- the Participatory
Development Program (PDP) and the monitoring and evaluation program (see below).
63.       A national SAP Steering Committee, chaired by the Deputy Chairman of the
Planning Commission and a Provincial SAP Coordinating Committee, will meet quarterly or
more often if required -- to provide impetus and direction and assess progress.
64.       Provincial/Territory Sub-Programs. The provincial/territory (and AJK) governnnents
are responsible for implementing the sub-programs in primary education, primary health care,
population and rural water supply and sanitation -- 94% of the SAP -- through their established
sectoral line departments. Their departments of Finance and of Planning and Development
(P&D) have responsibilities for financial control and coordination. These sub-programs are
supported by Operational Plans but include expenditure and Implementation Plans.
65.       Federal Sub-Progam and National Program. The Ministry of Population Welfare
has overall responsibility for the population program nationwide, along with responsibility for
providing guidance to provincial level population welfare and health departnents.  The
population sub-program is also supported by an Operational Plan. The ministries of Health and
Education are responsible for implementing national programs, such as the Ministry of Health's
communicable disease control program and the Ministry of Education's National Education
Management Information System.
B. Inplementation Agreements between GOP and the Implementing Agencies
66.       Before the SAP started, the GOP asked the agencies responsible for delivering
Pakistan's basic social services -- the provincial and territory governments -- to formulate a
program to improve the quality of, and enhance the capacity to deliver, these services over the
period of the Eighth Plan, 1993/94-1997/98. The GOP also asked IDA and other donors to help
the implementing agencies to formulate these programs. After many drafts and reviews,
programs were elaborated for the five-year period as a whole and will be detailed in annual SAP
Operational Plans. The first, for 1993/94 has been completed.
67.       The annual Qperational Plans consist of three elements: (i) an implementation plan
of reforms, which details the steps (prior actions) taken before the outset of the period and the
follow-up steps to be taken in order to overcome identified constraints to enhanced delivery of



83
services; (ii) a non-development budget (mainly the budget for recurrent costs) sufficient to
improve the quality of the services delivered; and (iii) a development budget (mainly tbe capital
costs of physical expansion but also important non-capital costs, such as training).
68.       The Operational Plans prepared by the implementing agencies were approved by the
GOP as a basis for funding, while the five-year programs were reviewed and agreed at the
administrative level. Although the Eighth Plan as a whole has yet to be approved at the political
level due to the transition in governments during 1993, the Social Action Program, because of
its priority, was approved in total and for the first year by the National Economic Committee
(NEC), the competent body. The first year's GOP financing for the SAP was protected from
diversion to other uses by making it non-fungible with non-SAP resources.
C. The Planning, Approval, Implementation and Monitoring Cycle
69.       Implementation of the SAP occurs on a fixed annual cycle, geared to the annual
budgeting and planning processes of the Govermment and the implementing agencies. Provincial
assemblies approve the annual budget and annual development plan during June of each year,
before the beginning of the Government fiscal year on July 1. To prepare for this, the
implementing agencies involved, with assistace from the Multi-Donor Support Unit (see below),
begin formulating their Operational Plans for each sub-program by December of the previous
year; they work on them through the Spring before submitting them for approval by their
governments.
70.       In March-April of each year, before the Operational Plans are formally approved,
they will be assessed by IDA and associated donors. An IDA/donor mission will visit, review
the plans, and leave behind its written recommendations for the consideration of the governments
involved. These recommendations will cover the level of non-development recurrent budget,
the development capital budget, and the next steps to be taken on the implemnentation refomns
underway in each target sector.
71.       The provincial and federal governments will then finalize their Operational Plans
(including budgets and plans for reforms) and set in motion the implementation reforms to
prepare for the coming fiscal year. The plans (budget and reforms) will be approved by the
administration, government and assemblies of elected representatives before July 1. In parallel
with these preparations, the Government, in early Spring each year, will communicate the broad
outlines of the SAP to the implementing agencies, and indicate the level of Government
development loans that will be available to help carry it out. Once the plans, budgets, and up-
front reform measures are approved by the Government (NEC) and the provincial/territory
assemblies, IDA and the other donors supporting the SAP will check to make sure they still
approve them. At the same time, eligibility for IDA/donor support of each sub-program will
be assessed. Sub-programs whose Operational Plans are approved, and where tt it required up-
front measures are in place, will be eligible for donor reimbursement of a p.rt of program
expenditures. Sub-programs that are not in agreement, or which have not comp .ied sufficiently
with the requirements for prior action, will be the focus of corrective efforts, looking toward



84
eventual agreement, if possible.  Eligible sub-programs will be allocated funds for
reimbursement; those not yet eligible will be allocated funds only when they become eligible.
72.       The implementing agencies will carry out the programs as agreed. The federal
Government will provide its share of the SAP financing in advance, each quarter, to the
provincial and territory finance departments, which will in turn release the funds for expenditure
in a timely way so that the agreed programs proceed smoothly. The governments will prepare
the basis for donor reimbursement for the eligible sectors (Statements of Expenditure, or SOEs)
and forward them to the donors, who will check for eligibility and reimburse the agreed
percentage of eligible expenditures.
73.       From the outset of the fiscal year, the SAP monitoring arrangements described
below will be in operation. The first quarterly meeting of SAP monitoring committees (at both
provincial/territory and federal levels) will take place in early October, with subseq-uent meetings
around the end of December, March and June. Discussion will be based on brief SAP
monitoring reports prepared, respectively, by the P&D departments in the provinces and by the
Planning Division at the federal level. The reports will also be forwarded to donors for review,
along with minutes of the meetings.
74.       After the government monitoring committees report their findings, they will be
considered at quarterly SAP meetings organized by the MSU for interested donors, government
agencies and NGOs. The purposes of these meetings are: (i) to review progress under the SAP
and disseminate information of any kind related to the program, including progress/problems
with other donor-aided projects in the target sectors; (ii) to provide a formal mechanism for
donors (whether participating in the funding of the SAP or not) to raise issues of concern; and
(iii) to provide a forum for advice from the larger donor community on the future
implementation of the SAP itself.
D. Supervision by IDA
75.       The SAP Project will require intensive supervision by IDA. Fortunately, the net
increase in the resources required for this task is less than it would otherwise be, because related
IDA-supported operations already exist in virtually every sub-program of the SAP -- primary
education and primary health in all four provinces; rural water supply and sanitation in two
provinces and the AJK; and, prospectively, the population program. This will permit
supervision efforts to be combined for greater effectiveness. A similar situation exists for the
Asian Development Bank, the second largest SAP donor.
76.       As noted earlier, IDA would need to start its supervision cycle with a March/April
mission to review the draft Operational Plans being prepared for the coming fiscal year. This
would be the major supervision mission of the annual cycle and would involve a review of each
government's and each sector's budget, plan and implementation reform proposals, as well as
a review of monitoring over the previous three quarters (i.e., since the beginning of the fiscal
year). Required reviews of on-going IDA-supported investment projects would be included



85
under the umbrella of this SAP mission, since the mission member would possibly include the
same people who would review the sector-specific projects.
77.       A second supervision mission would be a brief review of the Operational Plans
(budgets and reform measures) as formally passed by the assemblies. It would take place early
in the fiscal year (i.e., late June/early July). This inission would determine eligibility of
individual su')-programs for IDA funding and would leave a record of recommendations on what
it would take to make deficient programs eligible. The second mission would also review the
governments' monitoring of progress and the results of the quarterly SAP monitoring
committees.
78.       The third and final supervision mission of the annual cycle would probably take
place in December or January, to review mid-year progress and contribute IDA's views on
issues to be addressed in preparation for the coming year's Operational Plans. This mission
would also check on the goverrments' monitoring progress.
E. The Role of the Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU)
79.       The MSU has an important role to play throughout the implementation process.
Early on, in preparation for the first year, it organized technical task forces -- one for each of
the target social sectors -- to identify issues relating to policy reform measures, budgets and
planning which, in the view of the various donors, should be addressed. The MSU conveyed
these issues ("Guidelines") to the provincial and territory governments, for their information and
use in preparing the Operational Plans. The MSU will continue this process in future years,
forwarding its recommendations in December and January. It will also coordinate -- and, as a
last resort, provide -- technical assistance to help the implementing agencies prepare their
Operational Plans.
80.       In addition, the MSU will give selective assistance to governments to help them
monitor and coordinate these programs. It will ensure that issues identified by donors for the
coming year's SAP are understood by the implementing agencies; that governments receive any
technical assistance needed to prepare the draft Operational Plans in time for the March/April
review mission; and that the information needed from the actual budgets and plans, as approved
by the assemblies, is presented in simplified formats for the June/July mission. The MSU will
also keep in touch on a continuous basis with the monitoring and evaluation undertaken by
governments and assist them as needed to improve the operation of that system. It will ensure
that the monitoring reports and minutes of the quarterly monitoring committee meetings reach
thr concerned donors, including IDA, and it will stand ready to help governments to organize
any training needed for operating the procurement and disbursement systems for IDA and the
other donors involved.



86
III. Implementation Plan
A. Detailed Implementation Plans
81. Each provincial and territorial sub-program, and the national and provincial population
programs have agreed implementation plans. These plans are prepared annually for the coming
fiscal year, are agreed upon with the World Bank staff and approved by the goverunents
involved. They are in presented in a matrix form for simplicity and ease of updating. Their
format includes;
(a)  identification of the policy issue
(b)  notation of up front actions (to be) taken
(c)  identification of follow up actions to be taken during the fiscal year in question;
(d)  notification of the agency responsible for taldng the needed action;
(e)  (quantitative) indicators of the concrete steps or reforms to be taken during the fiscal
year;
(f)  (quantitative and time-bound) indicators of outputs or achievements; and
(g)  specification of the assumptions and/or risks underlying the actions (to be) taken.
82.       These implementation plans for each sub-program mentioned above form part of the
agreed Operational Plarns. These plans are to bulky too append to this report. They are
available with the implementing agencies, the Government and form part of the SAP project file.
Summaries of the key reforms for 1993/94, distinguishing between up front actions and follow
up actions are presented in Attachment Four ("Pakistan: Social Action Programme (SAP)
Implementation Plans: Summary of Key Reforms, September 1993, Planning and Development
Division, Government of Pakistan").
B. Disbursement Arrangements
83.       The disbursement arrangements under the SAP Project are covered in Chapter Im
of the SAR. That discussion mentions the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) that are expected
to handle the vast bulk of disbursement claims. Attachment Two of this annex contains the
format of the SOEs agreed with the various governments, IDA and other donors.
C. Procurement Arrangements
84.       The procurements are also covered in Chapter III of the SAR. That discussion
mentions the use of consultants by the Government to monitor procurement under the SAP.
Draft terms of reference for these consultants are attached (Attachment Three).
85.       Goods, services and civil works will be procured according to Government
procedures, which have been found by other IDA-supported projects to be in conformity with
IDA's procurement guidelines. At IDA's request, the Government has agreed to correct some
minor shortcomings identified during appraisal. To that end, the govermments concerned agreed



87
to issue written instructions to their line departments to adjust their practices to conform with
the written Government procurement procedures. These instructions will specify that:
(a)  Calls to bid will be advertised in local newspapers;
(b)  Bidders will have at least 30 days to obtain bidding documents and submit their
bids;
(c)  Bid evaluation criteria will be set out in the bidding documents;
(d)  If pre-qualification is required, then the pre-qualification list should be reopened
periodicall} to allow consideration of additional firms, contractors, suppliers and
individual consultants; and
(e)  Use of the standard schedule of rates (SSR) should be used for estimation purposes
only; contracts should be awarded on the basis of market prices (not a percentage
of the SSR) submitted by contractors; and no post-bid negotiations on competitively
bid contracts should be allowed.
86.       Most procurement is expected to involve small contracts suitable only for local
competitive bidding and prudent . hopping. Some items, however, will be suitable for
international competitive bidding. These include vehicles, chemicals and some pharmaceutical
products, and large consulting services contracts. Procurement of these items will conform to
IDA guidelines.
87.       Shortcomings in the application of procurement rules are often due to the
unfamiliarity of Government officials with IDA guidelines and the Government's own
procedures. This is partly the result of frequent staff rotation, lack of training in procurement
procedures (GOP's and donors'), and inadequate monitoring. The Project, therefore, makes
special provision for monitoring and procurement practices and training staff involved in
procurement matters.



88
ATTACHMENT 1
MONLTORING INDICATORS PROFORMA
LEADING GOALS
1.        Improve social indicators, especially for females; increase female staffing of
services.
2.   Reverse past neglect of social sectors by increased funding and better delivery; clear
bottlenecks to implementation, and improve quantity and quality of services.
3.   Increase community/NGO/private sector participation in delivery and financing of social
services.
4.   Protect social sectors from aus;erity cuts.
5.   Improve quality and cost effectiveness of services.
6.   Make the provision of social services needs-based and demand-oriented.



89
EDUCATION                                                                        PROVINCE/ AGENCY
INDICATORS                                BASELINE    TARGET    ACHIEVEMENT
1992/93    1993/94       1993-94
A. OUTPUT INDICATORS
1. Total and X enrolled (K-5) Boys/Girls
2. Total and X enrolted in Class-5 Boys/Girls
3. Number of Government Primary Schools without students
4. Number of Rural Government Primary Schools with
Pupil/Teacher ratio below 10.                                                  -
B. POLICY REFORM PROGRAM INPUTS
1. Minimum X Increase in the Number of Schools with Mixed
Enrol lient under Female Administration
2. Minimua X Decrease in the Number of Rural Female Teaching
Vacancies
3. Number and X of Untrained Female Teachers Trained through
Condensed pre-service and in-service Training Program
4. Number of Village Education Committees
5. Percent of teachers hired from the same districts as the
school (Male/Female)
6. Percent of total teachers transferred during school year
(Male/Female)
7. Percent of sites selected on need-based criteria according
to EMIS data (based on agreed criteria)
8. Percent of Female Schools provided with:
a) Latrine
b) Water
c)  Boundary Walls
C. FINANCING INDICATORS
1. RaMease
a) Development Budget
b) Recurrent Budget (Salary/Non-salary) - Non-salary as X
of total recurrent budget
2. Ex.enditure
a) Development Budget
b) Recurrent Budget (Salary/Non-salary) - Non-Salary as X
of total recurrent budget
hX   =  Annual Review
i/   =  Semi-Annual Review
ii/ = Quarterly Review



90
RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION                                                   PROVINCEt AGENCY
INDICATORS                                BASELINE    TARGET    ACHIEVENENT
1992/93    1993194       1993-94
A. OUTPUT INDICATORS
1. Percent of Vitiages with access to water
2. Number of Households with access to sanitation /
3. Percent of villages managing and running schemes (of totaL
with schemes)
B. POLICY REFORM  PROGRAM INPUTS
1. Nwuer and percent of new schemes with Memorandum of
Understanding by Community organization to undertake 0&"
2. Number and % Existing Schemes handed over to comunmity to
manage and run
3. Number of villages with VO s and TVUAs - as X
4. For PHED-run schemes, X villages seeking Cost Recovery
ObJectives
S. Percent of staff trained in community organization
(male/female)
6. Percent of new schemes designed and planned with commmnity
involvement (men, men and women)
C. FINANCING INDICATORS
1. Release
a) Development Budget
b) Recurrent Budget (Salary/Non-salary)
2. Excenditure
a) DeveLoptent Budget
i)   water supply
ii) sanitation
b) Recurrent Budget (Salary/Non-salary) - CUE as X of
total recurrent budget
/ = Annual Review
jj - Semi-Annual Review
i_  Quarterly Review



HEALTHI                                                                             PROVINCE/ AGENCY
INDICATORS                                 BASELINE    TARGET    ACHIEVEMENT
1992/93    1993/94       1993-94
A. OUTPUT INDICATORS
1. EPI Coverage _/
2. Introduction of EDL
S. POLICY REFORM PROGRAM IN?UTS
1. Number of contraceptive acceptors at DON Outlets for
BHUs/RHCs MedicaL Centers i/i (Male/Female)
2. Number of LHV/Female Pare/Medical Vacancies hi  is %
3. Number TBAs/Number of BHUs and RHCs
4. Number of Community Health Workers (Female), Number of
8HUs and RHCs
5. % of BHUs & RHCs with residential quarters
6. Number of Health Outlets out of stock of at least one type
of contraceptives for more than 4 weeks ii(
7. Admission to LHV/FHT Schools
8. Introduction of PHC component in Curricula of Doctors (one
time activity)
C. FINANCING INDICATORS
1. Release
a) Development Budget
b) Recurrent Budget (Salary/Non-salary) - Non-salary as X
of total recurrent budget (rate of growth)
2. ExDenditure
a) Development Budget
b) Recurrent Budget (Salary/Non-salary) - Non-Salary as %
of total recurrent budget (rate of growth)
A/   =  Annual Review
i/   =  Semi-Annual Review
ii/ = Quarterly Review



92
POPULATION                                                                         PROVINCE/ AGENCY
INDICATORS                                 BASELINE    TARGET      ACHIEVEMENT
____ ____ ____ ______   1992/93    1993/94    1993-94
A. OUTPUT INDICATORS
1. Percent in Mumber of Continuous Users ilj (Male/Female)
2. Number of Users Served Through Private Sector (NGOs, SMC,
Private Maternity Service
8. POLICY REFORM PROGRAM INPUTS
1. Number of VFPWs (Trained/Working in Conumunities) iil
2. Number of FwCs that in anv month did nct have a futl
supply of Contraceptive ii/
- % of Districts with 6 months supply
3. Number of doctors given practical training in family
planning methods
4. Number of Vacant Posts if/ (Male/Female)
5. Number of districts with contraceptive supply system and
reporting system functional (MPW & OCH)
C. FINANCING INDICATORS
1. ReLease: level
- received more than I month late in the Province
2. Expenditure
a) Development Budget
b) Number of VFPUs receiving honorarium more than 7 weeks
Late
c) Number of staff receiving salary more than 1 month late
A/   =  Annual Review
-/    =  Semi-Annual Review
ii/ = Cuarterly Review



SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMME                                                IDA PORm IC-i
DRAFT STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE                                              ADB FORM XYYYY
Z                                                         For all civil works contracts less that $200,000 equivalent
Date    .       ..
EXPENDITURES OF ............................... SECTOR                                    Credit No.: .
FINANCIAL YEAR 199 /9                                                  Application No.: .
Reporting Period: ........... to ...................                                      Summary Sheet No.:
Fd 1.  EXPEND1TURES                                                 (Expressed in Pak Rupees)
IS/LI                   (1)                             (2)        1        (3)                (4)               (5)        [     (6)                 (7)
II    i _ _  _                             . _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I   _ _ __-~     _i _ _ _ _   I   _ _ _ _ _ i _   _   _   _  _    I    _ _ _ _ I   _  _   _   _   _  _ I
I  I                                            lExpenditures from I  Expenditures    | Expendituree to I  Expenditures   I Expenditures I
I   I                                           I July 1l 199 ...  I      during      |      end of      I   Previously   lbeing Reportedi          Remarks
I   I       Description of Expenditures         I to beginning of  I    reporting      Ireporting period       Reported     I  for this
I  I                                            I reporting period I      period       I (Columns 2+3)  I                   |   Period
I  I                                                               I                                     I                  I {(columns 4-5) I
I 1 ITOTAL CIVIL WORKS FOR SECTOR                                                                                           I
Note: Amounts to agree with Sector Summary Sheet
2. FISANCING
IS/LI                   (1)                             (2)        I        (3)
I  I                                                                    h j   Amount for
I   ISources of Finance                              Percentage         this Period
(Column 6 above)
Cl) I   From:
, I               IDA (inc. ......0  
Z I             Asian Dev. Bank
3                     etc.
4                     etc .                                      |
I                Govt. of . .
_  TOTAL tequal8 Sec. l SIL l,col(6) above)   I       100%
! _ _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _     I    _ _ _ _   _ I  I__      _   _
Thtis is to certify that the expenditures described above have been paid for proper execution of project activities within the terms and conditions under
the Credit Agreement. The relevant supporting documentation is retained by ....     ............... and available for Bank supervision missions.
(name of agency)
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
by: ....
Authorised Representative



SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMMB                                                 IDA FORM IC-2
DRAFT STATBMENT OF EXPENDITURE                                             ADS FORH XXXXX
For all contracts lses  that $200.000 equivalent
and excluding civil works, consultancy and technical assistance                        Daa...
EXPENDITURES OF ...............S ECTOR                                                     Credit No.: .
FINANCIAL YEAR 199 /9                                                   Application No. : 
Reporting Period: ........... to ...................                                       Summary Sheet No.: 
1.  EXPENDITURES                                                     (Expressed in Pak Rupees)
ISILl                    1 )                             (2)           -4) 1                                       (S)               6(7)
_Expenditures from IExpenditures    | Expenditures to        Expenditures   | Expenditures
Ii      Desc|iption of Expe:.ditures           July 1, 199 ...         during             end of            Previously    |being Reportedl        Remarks
|   Description of Expeuditures     | to beginning of        reporting      reporting period        Reported         for this
reporting period        period       |  Wolumns 2+3)                            Period                             l
I                 I                   (Columns 4-5)
1 ITOTAL SECTOR                                 |                             _      ,                                                 _    _ __
I IWIORAnDt5  (See Note)                     (                                       i
irotal Comprising of:
2 lsstablishment Charges    - {operating Costs)
3 IPurchase of Durable Goods- (Goods)
| 4 (Repairs and Maintenance  - (operating Costs)
s ICommodities and Services - (operatingC Costs')|                            _i_
j6 TOTAL SECTOR
I_              _       _ ___  . -_I__     I _                           _            I      _i
s W. e. Amounts to agree with Sector Summary Sheet
2. PINANCING
;S/LI                    (1)                                        |         (3)        l
I                                            I |   _   .__      |   Amount for
ISources of Finance                          I   Percentage          this Period    l
I                                                                 (Column 6 above)  |
I |
| 1               IDA {inc.     )
2                Asia  Dev. Bank               I
1 3 1                  etc.
j4                      etc.
5 1                    etc.
6l
7                Govt. of .....
8 (TOrAL (equals Sec. 1. S/L 1, col(6i above)          1 l00%     J
I 1 - .~....                                     I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I
This is to certify that the expenditures described above have been paid for proper execution of project activities within the terms and conditions under
the Credit Agreement. The relevant supporting documentation is retained by .and available for Bank supervision missions.
(name of agency)
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
by:. 
Authorised Representative



SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMME                                                                     Pak Rupees
FINANCIAL YZAR 199 /9
SBCTOR FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Sector:                    ....                       (See Note Below)                                                                              Expenditure to end: .............. 199
ISILI                                    (Expenditure in Year to Start of Period               i            Expenditure in Period                        8xpenditure in Year to End of Period
I   I                                    I                                         .           I                                                                                         I
I   I    Object Classification           |Non-Development  Development I   Total                Non-Development |Development             Total       Non-Development |Development             Total
I   I                 (1)                         4 (2)              (3)                               ( 5)         I     (6)             (7)       i        (8                 9) '            (10)
1 1 (Establishment Charges               ,                                     I               I
I2 (Purchase of Durable Goods            t                    |
1 3 lPrre-invest. Project Analysis
j 4 IConstruction and works               |
|    (Repairs and Maintenance                                                 ) |
| 6 IC-amnodities and Services           |                                     I
17 (Transfer Payments                    I                                     I               I                                                                         i
a8 (Investment
| 9 |Loans and Repayments
(10 )Miscellaneous                       I                                     t
I1I (Total  (per Civil A/cs)             |                                     I               I                                    I                                                        |       -
(12 ivorks  (from schemes summary)  I                         I                I               I                                                                                                         1
as  I-                       I                    ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~I  I  I  .   . 
113  (Land Acquisition ( -------- JI_____                                                         ______                               _____   ______                        _____I_____
Note
List the subsectors and functional codes being summarized above
Sub-Sector               Functional Code
......... .........................  .................
~~~~~~~~.................. ..................... .. ... 
..................         ...................................
..................         ...................................
..................         ...................................



SOCIAL ACTION PROGRMME                                                        Pak Rupees
FINANCIAL YEAR 199 19
DF.TAILED FINANC1A STATEMENT
Sector: .. .................  .... ......  Sub-Sector.   .. . ........... Functional  Classification: .   ...........................    Expenditure   to   end:  .............. 19......19
IS/LI                              |Expenditure in Year to Start of Period    I             Expenditure in Period              I  Expenditure in Year to End of Period |
I   I                               I                                            I                                          -  1                                             I
i | Object Classification    |Non-DeveLopmnent |Development I  Total   |lRon-xDevelopment |Development I  Total    |Non-Development |Development I  Total
I                                        ( 1     2)      ( 3}          (4)             5              (6)           ( 7)            (g3)       I    (9)      I    (10) 
J  Establishment Charges                                                                            
2 IPurchase of Durable Goods 
1 3 |Pre-invest. Project Analysis 
i 4 IConstruction and Works        |
I S fRepairs and Mbintenance       t
16 |Commodities and Services       i||||; 
i 7 ITransfer Payments|                                                                                                                                        i
I 8 linvestment                                                                                                                                                tI
t 9 (Loans and Repayments|||
10 siscellaneous||i                                                                           
ilt rotal (per X-;A/co)            gg|                                                    
112 lWotks (from sonemes summary) 
113 iLand Acquisition (   --------)I
I I_             I                  I I!II_
114 i, TOTIl                                                                                                    



97
ATFACHMENT 3
Terms of Reference for
Procurement Monitoring
Background
1.   The Social Action Program Project (SAPP) aims to help relieve poverty, improve the well
being of families, and slow population growth in Pakistan by supporting that country's entire
Social Action Program (SAP). The SAP comprises all of Govermnent's efforts to strengthen
basic social services--primary education, primary health care, family planning, and rural water
supply and sanitation--during the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993/94-1997/98). As it now stands,
Pakistan's weak social services are undermining the country's development efforts. Educational
attainments and health indicators, especially for women, fall well short of those for countries of
similar income levels. At 3 percent per year, popu:ation growth consumes half the gains in
GDP. With the support of the SAP Project, Pakistan's central Social Action Program now seeks
to increase school enrollment in general (and female enrollment in particular) and to bring basic
education up to minimum quality standards. It will strengthen the primary health care system
(especially in rural areas) and sharply expand family planning services particularly at the
community level. Finally, the SAP will increase the area served by rural water supply programs
and at the same time shift responsibility for maintenance to communities. The SAP Project
proposes to help finance the first three years (1993/94-1995/96) of the SAP with a credit that
will complement existing social sector programs and projects, whether or not aid-financed.
2.   To strengthen Pakistan's Social Action Program, the SAP Project will provide a
multisectoral investment-and-maintenance credit. The Project will therefore support a variety
of cross-sectoral and sector-specific programs and issues amalgamated into one i oherent
framework by Pakistan's SAP. For purposes of program planning and monitoriug, the SAP is
divided into constituent sub-programs covering basic social services-primary education, primary
health care, or rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS)-in one of Pakistan's four provinces.
Other sub-programs cover the national population program, a federally administered health
program, and basic social services in areas administered by the federal Govermnent. The SAP
Project will fimance a time-slice of annual programs as agreed each year by the Government, the
World Bank, and other donors. The Project will also finance efforts to promote community
involvement through NGOs as well as improvements in monitoring and management of social
services.
3.   The SAP Project is designed to emphasize implementation of the SAP as a whole through
continuing policy dialogue, agreements on funding that are reviewed each year, and competition
for resources among provinces and sectors. Disbursements will be made only after annual
assessments and agreement by the Bank, other donors, and govermnent authorities responsible
for that year's operational plans. The operational plans include development (investment)
budgets and current budgets as well as implementation plans that specify both prior actions and
measurable targets for progress in each year. The Project reimburses a share of the expenditures



98
for agreed programs. Each subsequent year's agreement will reflect past performance as well
as new plans (again with prior actions and targets). The first annual assessment, for FY93/94,
was completed as part of the appraisal for the SAP Project.
4.   Development and recurrent costs for the SAPP will total about $4.1 billion, including $1
billion increase over comparable earlier expenditures. The Govermnent expects to contribute
about 76% of this total, about $3 billion, and use $552 million more from existing or expected
donor assistance. For the remnaining gap of $572 million it seeks funding. IDA would provide
$ I3 million or 5% of the total cost-about 48% of the gap.
Consultant's Terms of Reference.
5.   The consultant will assist the GOP/Planning Division/SAP Secretariat in the
accomplishment of their procurement activities by providing review and advice. They will
monitor SAP's procurement activity to confirm that it is performed in accordance with
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
6.   More specifically, the consultant will provide 81 consultant months (that is, the equivalent
of 3 full time staff for 27 months each of qualified/experienced experts in building and civil
works procurement) to conduct a continuous, random review of all procurement under the SAP.
In performing the reviews, the consultant will adhere to the following guidelines:
a. conduct a prior review of the first five (5) procurement requirements initiated, subsequent
to consultant appointment, by each of the GOP implementing agencies;
b. conduct a prior review the procurement documents for all requirements with an expected
contract value of US$50,000 equivalent, or more;
c. conduct an ex-post review of the procurement documents for all other procurement using
acceptable sampling techniques. The ex-post review will include a sample of all
procurement accomplished prior to the signing of the Project Agreement which will be
eligible for retroactive financing.
7.   The consultant will include all bidding documents and contracts within the scope of their
reviews and carry out field visits as appropriate. The reviews will assess the adherence of the
procurement activity to the IDA Guidelines for Procurement and agreed standard bidding
documents.
8.   The consultants will provide quarterly reports which describe the documents reviewed,
identify the agency responsible for the procurement, and highlight the findings of the review
with appropriate recommendations for follow up reviews by GOP. The consultants will also
prepare an annual report which will summarize the review activity and provide recommendations
for procedural revisions to improve the GOP procurement process.



ATTACHMENT 4
99
PAKISTAN
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMME (SAP)
IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
SUMMARY OF KEY REFORMS
September 1993
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN



100
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMME
PROVINCIAL IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
SUMMARY OF KEY REFORMS



101
EDUCATION
1.    Enhance Girls Primary Education
a.    Introduce Co-Education at the Primary Level
b.    Increase Female Teachers
2.    Strengthen Primary Education Institutions & Procedure
a.    Increase Focus on Primary Education
b.    Streamline Site Selection
c.    Revise and Enforce Posting and Transfer Policies
d.    Strengthen data base for Managing Primary Education
3.    Foster Private, NGO and Community Participation
a.    Use  Private  Engineering  firm  for  construction  management  and
supervision
b.    Education Foundation
c.    Community Participation



EDUCAtl9N
1 Enhance Girls Primary Education
a)  Introduce Co-Education at the Primary Level
SALOCHI STAN                                  NWFP                                      PUNJAB                                     SIID11
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken | Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Priot to    Action to be taken
Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94       | Sept. 15  1993     During 1993/94        Sept. 1   1993   j During 1993/94
- COO has aqreed                            - GONlFP has          100 new schools       - GOPun,ab-Secy.   GOPun)ab will           No traditional       0O$ to formulate
all new prif ary                            issued a circular   will be opened          of education         carry out these       bar for girls to   and announce
schools will be                             that girls can        without gender         tstued              instructions and      attend boys         policy of
Co-Educational                              attend girls' or   designation, where   instructions             develop criteria      schools             unification.
open to both                                boys' schools         communities do not   that all schools   for new schools
genders                                                           ob3ect.  492          will accept          and for converting
genderless schools   children of both   mosque schools
planned to be         genders and that
- 22 Community                              - A list of           opened by 199S        all new _chools                            COS to in*tiate    Some genderless
Schools of mixed                            communities which                            (and converted                            study of            schools will be
gender opened                               do not object to                            n,osque schools)                           utsitying primary   opened in willIng
Co-education         A feasibility          will have                                 educatiotn and to   c >mmunit ies
schools hbs been    study on                female:nale                               identify
agreed upon          antegrating            teacher ratior                            conwcrunities open
primary school        of 70:30                                   to mixed schools
- GOB decided in    Amend rules so          - A district-wise   administration
principle to          that new openings    list has been          will be conducted
integrate Primary   above Grade 19 can   prepared to set                                                                                                              0
Education             be filled by          up 100 genderless
Administration        either gender         schools under
above Grade 19                              female district
administration
with female
teachers



EDflUCATION
1. Enhance Girls Primary EducAtion
b)  Increase real. Teachers
BALOCHISSAN                                  IN"F                                     PUNJAB                                   StINW
~~I _. ,               ,, ,, -    .  ..  .. -              . ,  ,   .                . i l. Xx.               .                              C
Action Prior to      Action to be taken  Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken  Action Prior to   Action to be taken
Sept. IS  1993       During 1993/94        sept. 1S, 1993       During 1993/94       Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993     During 1993/94
- Age and            Intensity training   - Proposal (or        Cabinet to approve   - GOPunjab has      The Education         - GOS has          GOS is preparing a
qualificatich        to upgrade skills,   relaxation of age  and issue                lifted its         Dept. will            relaxed age         package of
rules relaxed for                          and qualification  notification           recruitment ban    identity under         limit and          incentives for
female teachers      Performance of        rules for female                          and is              served areas and      qualification      approval and
such recruits to     teacher and to       Recruit enough        recruiting          take steps to                            introduction
- 00C  has           be monitored          provide Rs500       female teachers to   female teachers    ensure                 GOs will examine
sanctioned                                 per month            have 11,700 female  to fill all          availability of       incentives for
RsSOO/p.m.           Establish Khuadar    incentive for         primary teachers     posts.              female teachers       female rural
incentive payment   teacher training       female teachers     by June 1994 (vs.                                               teachers
for female           college               submitted to         9691 in 1991/92)     - GOPunjab has
teachers working                           GONWFP Cabinet                             raised the entry
in rural areas       Remove domicile                           Revise service        age for female
restriction for      Preparations made  rules to allow          teachers to 52
- crash training     female teachers       for mobile           hiring of local      years
program started                            teacher training    girls to be
Allow re-entry of    for females in       trained by mobile    - Study
retired teachers,    remote areas in 3  units                   commissioned on                                                          0-
especially female   districts, with                             teacher                                                                  0
reduced entry                             incentives as a
qualification                             basis for action



?4
EDUCRTION
2. Strenothen Primary Education Institutions and Procedure
a.  Increase Focua on Primary Education
BALOCHISTAN                                     NWFP                                       PUNJAB                                      Sl#DH
Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993         During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. 15S  1993      During 1993/94
- Directorate of    Achieve full              - Directorate of    Strengthen role of   - Directorate of                                - GOS has            GOS will consider
Primary Ed4cation    operatipn,               Primary Education   directorate              Elementary                                  established an       appointing a
established as an    implement reform         established                                  Education                                   Additional           director of
attached               and achieve                                                         established                                 Director for         Primary Education
department.  New       targeta for                                                                                                     Primary              at the Divisional
directorate to         Primary Education                                                                                               Education at the   level
assume full            for 1993/94                                                                                                     Divisional level
administrative and
financial control   Delegate                                                                                                           - Separate
administrative and                                                                                              district
financial powers                                                                                                education
to director                                                                                                     offkcers
established
l~ ~~~~~~~~I
a



EDUCATION
2.  Strengthen Primary Education Institutions and Procedure
b. Streamline Site Selection
9ALOCHISTAN                                 tlWFP                                     PUNJAB                                    SIMDH
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to      Action to be taken  Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. 1. 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. 1    1993    During 1993/94
- COi h.a  4ecided   No new school will   - COtWFP has          Only on cites that   - Agreed             COPunjab to issue    - GoS has            COS will update
sites of all new    be constructed         circulated           meet criteria will  criteria used         notification that   established           ItS inventory of
Schools will meet   unless they are        objective            construction be       for donor-aided    all schools to         oblective           schools and
objective             approved on the       criteria for site   allowed               schools             meet agreed           criteria for         naitiate school
criteria, based on  basis of                selection                                                     criteria              site selection,    mapping.
a school mapping      establiehed                                carry out school
data (BENISI          criteria              - Criteria for      mapping at                                                      - COS has           All sites are to
establishment of   district level                                                   establishied        be selected on the
- All sites for      All new locations    schools notified                                                                      District            basis of
school               to be selected on                          All sites for                                                   Deveicpment         established
construction          the basis of          - Categorization    1994195 schools                                                 committee to hid   crtteriavalidated
during 1993/94 to   established             of districts on      selected using                                                 in site             by data
be approved. on      criteria and EMIS    needo basis for        criteria and be                                                seIect iou
basis of criteria   data                    allocation of       completed by July
schools for 1993-   15  1994.
Po new school                               94 completed
construction under
HPA program; such                           - Notification
funds to be used                           stating that 50%                                                                                                       Q
for existing                               of schools would
shelterless                                be based on needs
schools, only.                             within districts
- The rationale
for use of
criteria and e8t9s
to be explained
to MPls and their
support sought



EDUCATIO
2. Strenathen Primary Edgcation Institutions and Procedures
c. Rkevoie and tnfore. Postina and Transfer Policies
BALOCHISTAN                                   HUPP                                      PtWJA8                                   SIND"
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to te taken
Sept  IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. IS. 1993      During 1993/94
- GOB has decided   GOB to develop a        - PrOposals on        The Dept. of          - GOPunjab has      The Education         - Draft outline    The Cabinet and
primary scho4l        policy on posting    delinking              Education and         decided to          Department will       of revised          Chief Minister lif
teachers will form  and transfer;           postings and         GONIFP will carry    restrict              implement the         departmental        required) will
a  district cadre'  appointment letter   transfers from           out new               transfers of        policy to the         policy on           approve a revised
and not liable for  to include area of   political                instructions and      primary teacher    effect of reducing   restricting           postings and
transfer out of       posting and to        consideration and   entorce existing        within the          unneeded transfers   teacher transfer   transfer policy,
their home            restrict transfers   a ban on transfer   ones to reduce           markar )sub-                              and localization   and GOS will
district                                    during the            unneeded transfers   district) in         Monitoring            of teacher           initiate a
No teacher will be   academic year                               which they are       procedures for        posting prepared   monitoring system
- Community           transferred from      submitted to the    The Cabinet is to    appointed              spot checks and
Schools Program       post after start      Chief Minister        issue instructions                        regular reporting                         All new
;ill include          of academic year.    and Cabinet            relating to           - The eligible      of learning                               appcintments wiII
restrictions on                                                   postings and          area of trantsfer   coordinator and                           irclude a bond
transfers             Policies to be                              transfers based on   for new teachers   AEOs will be                                thiat new appointe*
developed and                              educational need       is turttier         establistied                              will serve in
notified                                                          reduced, to the                                               tirst posting to:
Female teachers       Union Council;                                                ttiree years.
appointment to be    (where no such
localized             teachers are                                                  Policy to be
available,                                                    approved and
recruitment at                                                notified
the markaz
level).



2.  strenathen Primary Education Institutions and Procedurps
d. Strengthen data base for manaoinQ Primary Education
BALOCHISTAN                                  "wFP                                      PUNJAS                                    SIND"
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to       Actlon to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to   Action to be taken
Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94
- 8alochisfan         Coverage will be      - NWP Education    EMIS to be              - Punjab Educ.      - EHIS to carry       - Sindh             GOS to strengthen
Education             expanded, to          Management           upgraded and          Hgnt. Info.         out 1993-94 survey   Education            SEHIS, un4er the
Management            include finance       Information          installed in 17       System              and make use of       Management          planning data base
Information System  and construction        System has been      districts in NWFP,   established in    data for                 Information         and monitor use of
established and is  management.             set-up in 9          and used to           12 districts,       management            System              SEMIS
producing MIS         Senior management    districts and has   support decision        with budget,                              establashed an
reports-              to be trained in      completed the        making                staff and           - School mapptng      18 districts.
use of data for       final physical                             initial prep.       to be carried out    and the two
- A two year          planning and          census                                     for a physical                            physical
schedule for          monitoring                                                       survey              - Allocate budget    censuses ha e
expansion under                             - Coordination                                                 and hire operators   been completed
Amplementation                              with the national                          - EIS ard ltCMIS
EMIS worked Out                            im1tegr.t.d
- Additional EMIS                         Consultants
staff provided                            appointed for
data entry on
1992-93 survey



3. Poster Private. NCW and Communitv Particination
a.  Use Private tnaine rina firm tor construction manaoement and suggrvision
BALOCHISTAN                                   NWFP                                      PUNJAD                                     SINDH
Action Prior to      Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken  Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to   Action to be taken
Sept.15, 1993         During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993194        Sept. 15, 1993      During 1993/94         Sept. IS. 193      During 1993/94
- A privatA           Use of engineering   -  A nuculeas          The GONWFP will       - GOPunjab          Supervision            -  COS has         GOS will select
engineerinl firm      firms tg be           cell for the          contract with         already uses        contract to be         decided to hire    consultant and
engaged-to design   extended to all         Construction of       private               private firms       extended to all        a consultant for   sign a contract
and supervise         primary schools       Advisory Unit         engineering firms    for supervision    schools                  top supervision    for top
construction/maint  after evaluation         (CAU) established   to supervise and       of construction                            of construction    supervision to
enance of schools   of performance                                oversee the           of schools on                                                  start by October
construction of       aided projects                             - GOS prepared      1993
primary schools                                                 TOR for this
consultant; list
The CAU will pre-                                               of consultants
qualify list of                                                  ready for
private firms                                                    prequalatication
00



3. Foster Private. OGO and Community ParticiPation
b.  6ducation Poundat ion
WALOCHISTAN                                    NVFP                                      PUNJAB                                      SINDH
Action Prior to       Action to be taker   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to  | Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Actioh tO be Laken
Sept. 1S 1993         During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. A5S  1993     During 1993/94
- Balochistan         Foundation's rules   - Frontier              GONF? to obtain      - Punjab             GOPunjab will          - The Sindh         The regulatory
Education             and operational        Education             funds from GOP.       Education            review the role of   Education             framework is under
Foundation set up.   framework will be    Foundation set up                              Foundation is        the Education          Foundation has      preparation and
developed and                               Dept. of Education   established and    Foundation and            been                will be approved
notified              - CGOWFP released   is to draw a             functioning         revise the             established.
funds and bridge    regulatory                                  criteria for                               The Education
finance of Ps.1SO   framework and           - GOPun3ab          assistance,                                Foundation will
million               incentive package    appointed             including that for                         developguidel&nes
for greater           consultants to       the private sector                         for use of this
participation of      conduct a study                                                 support and
private sector in    of regulation         GOPunjab will                              prepare and
primary education    over private          review policies                             .pprove an
sector's            and regulation and                         incentive package
actxvity in         incentLves for                             for the private
education           private sector's                           sector.
role in education
by June 1994                              Government of
Silidh to be
provided tundinq
by GOP
I-



3.  Pogter Private. 4CO and CoWsntv ParticiRAtion
c. Community Participation
SALOCHISTAN                                  NlFP                                     PUNJA9                                   SImI
Action Prior to      Action to be taken   Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to   Action to be taken
sept. IS, 1993       During 1993194        Sept. IS, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993     During 1993/94        Sept. 15. 1993      During 1993194
- Village            Expansion of          - GOUPP has          GONWFP to             - GOPunjab is      cOPunjab will         - Some community  COS to consider
Education            comunity approach   constituted            establish village    exploring            prepare a pilot      schools already    strengthening tile
Committees            into new areas       District             education             proposals for       project, devise      exist tAga Khon   role of parent-
established to set                         Education Boards,   committees to          community           mechanisms and       Education           Teachercoxrittees
up schools           Create -community/  under the Deputy    organize village         involvement in    provide budgets        Services)           and to explore
"GO Development      Commissioner with   schools                school              for these                                other approaches
- 95 community       cell within P&D       power to approve                           construction,       esperiments          - Gos has Assued  toward coamunaty
schools set up;      Department            new schools           i0 experiaental      maintenance and                          a notification      schools
112 teachers                               starting in          community schools   provision of a       Consultant to         constituting
appointed            A total of 120 new   1993/94               to be opened in 3   teacher and a         revxse report on     Parent-Teacher
- 10O0 established   posts to be                                districts             teaching kit to    the basis of          committees
to assist            sanctioned            - Divisional                               comimunities that  comments received
community                                  Departmental                               otherwise
participatioi                             Committees                                 organize a
empowered to                              school
sanction primary
education                                 - Consultant
pro3ects upto                             study completed
RJ.7.5 million
- GONWFP issued a
notification to
create village
education
comittees as of                                                                                                       O
Mar. 23. 1993



1.   Establish Strategic Planning Mechanism
2.   Re-organize PIIC Services and Financing
3.   Decentralize Administrative and Financial rowers
4.   Improve Gender Staffing Imbalances
5.   DON Expanded Participation in ..)pulation Programme



HEALTH
2.  Establish Strateoic Planning Mechanism
BALOCHISTAN                                     NWFP                                        PUNJAB                                      SlZFPH
Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to          Action to be taken   Action Prior to   | Action to be taken | Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993         During 1993194         Sept. 15, 1993         During 1993/94         Sept. 1S, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. lS  1993        During 1993/94
- Planning office    - By Aug. 93,            - Planning cells    - Establishment of   Planning cell             Preparation of         - Planning,          - capacity
established in the   provide recurrent    exist in the               planning cell at       exists in the        policy statement       Monitoring and       building of pHEC 6
Health Dept.           budget for             Secretariat;           the Health             office of the        for health sector    Evaluation Cell    Planning sections
Secretariat;           planning cell, and                            Directorate, June    Secretary              Dec. 93                (PMEC)               at Directorate,
sanction posts by    - Distt. Health         94                                                                  established in       Divisional
-  Four                June 94                Boards (DMHs)                                 - Planning cell    - SAP program            the Health           Directors C
professionals                                 established            - Strengthening of   in D.G. Health's   indicators - Dec.    Secretariat                District Started
appointed              - By Dec. 93,                                planning cell at        office, headed       93
complete situation   - Consultancy to    Secretariat, June    by Director                                        - Planning           -District Health
- 5 year health        analysis;              develop revised        94                                          - commence             Officer              Mar.agement teams
sector development                            planning                                      - Outline of 5       preparation of ADP   appointed in the   aesignated
rFian prepared         - By April 94,          procedures and        - District Health    year plan              94/95 - Jan. 94        offices of D.G.
prepare draft          guidelines, TORs    Boards ~n all the    prepared                                         Health,              - Current planning
rolling plan           approved              Districts                                    - Mid-year review    Divisional             procedures
functioning by                              of ADP 93/94 -         Director of          documented, June
- Commence             - Consultancy for   April 94                                       Feb. 94                Health &             94
preparation of         part of eight                                                                             teaching
hiealth sector         health studies        - iHMIS expanded to                          - Rolling plan         hospitals            - Situation
policy by Oct. 93    approved                other Divisions,                             prepared - April                            analysis completed
June 94                                     94                     - A Deputy           June 94
- SAP Program          - 2 planning                                                                              Director of PMEC
indicators, & SAP    offirers, a             - Study of                                  - Strengthening of   assigned to
Plan prepared by       vehicle and           database started                             strategic planning   monitor sur
Dec. 93                ancillary                                                         mechanism               implementation 6
facilities            - Study on                                                         support SAP
- Strengthening of   provided at the         location,                                                           Executing
Strategic Planning   Secretariat level   condition and                                                           agencies
Mechanism by June    under ODA               performance of
1994                   assistance of 3rd   health facilities
Health Project



HEALTH
i.  Establish StrateQic PlanninQ Mechanism (Continued)
bALOCIIISTAN                                  I4FP                                     PUNJAB                                    sIzDm
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to       Ac5ion to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be tAken   Action Prior to   Action to be takes
Sept. 15, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. i5s  1993    During 1993/94
- SAP Monitoring      - HMIS started in   - Preration of                                                   - Workshop of
system developed      Pechawar and         Rolling plani April                                             Planning Ofticer
by Harch 94           Nalakand Division   94                                                               conducted
- NIP prepared,                                                 - Situat ion
Feb. 94                                                         analysis
initiated
- Planning
procedures and
guidelines
revised, Dec. 93
- Implementation
of revised
Planning
guidelines/
procedures Apr. 94
- Establish PHfC
SAP focus in
Health Directorate



HEALTH
2. Re-organize PHC Services and Financina
8ALOCHISTAN                                    VWFP                                        PUNJAB                                      SINDH
Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993         During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94       | Sept. 1S, 1993       During 1993/94
Drug schedules for  - Integration of          - Essential drugs   -  Increase &            - Formula for        Improve staff          - Budget for         - Anaiyzing non-
RHCs & BHUs exist    vertical programs    list for                  functional             allocation of        availability 6         medicines has        salary budget &
at Directorate &       different levels    redistribution of    non-salary               fill vacant            been revised.       identifying
primary level;         of PHC facilities   non-salary budget    budget revised           positions              now an average      changes that are
- hnalysis &           xndicating            of PHC services        with approval of   according to             RHC will receive   necessary for its
correction of          quantities for        April 1994             Finance Deptt.,    availability of          Rs.165,000, a       betterutilization
budgetary              one year notified                            which lead to        trained                BHU Rs.E0,000      - Oct. 93
imbalances in PHC                            - Field                doubling the         staff by June 94      and a Dispensary
services by March    - One Divisional    preparation of             non-salary                                  Rs.249.000 for      Projects prepared
94                     coordination          referral support       budget of PHC        a) lon-salarv          medicines           for modifying the
- Improve staff        Committee on CDC    to PHC - June 94         facxlities           budoet:                                    allocat.ionswithin
availatility L         notified                                                          - Assess provLsion   -  ;dditional         the non-salary
lill :acant                                  - Reorganize           - Running budget   of r.on-salary           budgets for         budgets of the PHC
positioll of all                             preventive             allocation  o.r      budget for 94!95       druos and           urits by Dec. 1993
staff categorxes                             programmes into        93/94 made on        as par new             medicines also
according to                                 broad based CDC        the basis of new   formula, strict          provided through   - Job description
availability of                              programme              formula             compliance with         malaria 6 TB        of technical staff
trained staff by                             procedures and                              the yard stick by    Control Program    of PHC units
June 94                                      processes studied    Effort made to         Dec. 93                                    revised by April
- Establish expert                                                  improve staff                               - Drugs             94
committee to                                 - Job enrichment       availability by    b) Referrals             formulary and
develop essential                            for health             major                - Referral system    drug Schedule
drug list (EDL)                              personnel of PHC       recruitment          procedures develo-   introduced
Feb. 94, & notify                            notified March 94    efforts               ped and introduced
EDL & commence                                                                          by Mar. 94.
implementation by                            - Start CHWs                               - Strengthening
April 94                                     training programme                         CDC by merging
with appropriate                           vertical programs,
linkages with PHC                          staff training i
logistics
pracedures



HEALTH
2.  pe-organize PHC Servic-6 And rinancing (Continued)
BALOCHISTAN                                    NWIP                                       PUNJAB                                      SIIIDH
Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 1S, 1993         During 1993/94         Sept. IS. 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. ls  1993      During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94
- Prepare 6 notify                          - Link T As with                            developed and          - Communit          - DHCs functions
drug schedule by                             PHC outlets for                            approved by June       Involvement:        and links with
level of facility                           supervision,                                94                                         District
as per EDL - April                          training and                                - Beefing up           In every            management
94                                          logistic support                            services at first    district, health   Coninittees
procedures                                 referral level;        comaittees have    established by
- Planning steps                            prepared - June 94                          preparing             been formed for    Dec. 93.
to start CHWs                                                                           inventory by           all AHCs, SItUs,
pilot project                               - Link 8HlUs to                             services required    and DispensarAes   - Drug fortnulary
completed by June                           RHCs and Civil                 6              identifying          as first step       and drug schedules
94                                          Hospitals - June                            deficiencies by        for involviug       revised on tbe
94                                         Feb. 94                local               basis of EDL by
- Referral systems                                                                                            communities          Feb. 93.
procedures study                                                                        c)  M.Lz
initiated June 94                                                                       - By Dec. 93                               - Preventive
esLabliSh *xpert                           services madenmre
- Review of                                                                             commsit tee to                             broad based
vertical                                                                                develop Essential
progra_ves of CDC                                                                       Drugs List /EDL)                           - Referral
for integration                                                                         - Notify EDL a                             procedures
cotttpleted by June                                                                     ccaxtc nence                               developed - June
94                                                                                      implementation by                          94
March 94
- Performance of                                                                        - finalize drug
health personnel                                                                        schedule by level
as team reviewed                                                                        of facility as per
April 94                                                                                EOL by March 94
CoaFunitv          dl I
Involvemaent:       Cmunit
Involvement
- Pilot project    Coemened and
ot PHC              formation of VHC
(including CIMlI  by Dec. 93
in Sheikhupura



2.  georoanize PHC Services and FLnancina (Continued)
BALOCHISTAN                                   NWPP                                      PUNJAB                                     SINDN
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993      During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993      During 1993/94
district            - Constitute
approved            Committee of
experts for
- curricula of      developing
training of CHWs   training curricula
reviewed            for CHWs/TBAs -
Nov. 93
- Selection         - Identification
criteria of CHWs  of male & female
prepared            health centres, 6
village TBAs by
- All PHC           Jan 94
facilities          - Piloting
designated          linkages of
CHWs/TBAs with
SHUs in
Sheikhupura
District by May 94
- Develop
procedure and
mechanism of
monitoring
linkages between
cHWs and ThAs by
April 94
- Establish a
monitoring system
of CHWs primarily
by VHCS & LJtVS Of
PHC facilities by
oct. 93



ft
HEALSHT
3. Decentralize Administrative and Financial Powers
BALOCHISTAN                                     NWFP                                        PUNJAB                                      SINDH
(Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993         During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993         During 1993/94         Sept. 1S, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993       During 1993/94
Proposal to            - Set up Task-         - DHO recruits         - DHO to recruit       - Constitution       1. Approval of         a) Recruiting,       - Incharge of one
restore delegated    force regarding          personnel in BPS    personnel in BPS          of working           procedure for          hiring & firxng    RHC in each Div.
administrative         delegation of           1-5                   6-9                    groups for           purchase of            authority            declared as Cat.
powers under           powers to DHO/DHS                                                    preparing            medicines under        delegated to         Ill officer under
examination by the   by June 30, 94           - DHO Category         - ADHO (BPS-18) to   proposals on           rate contract by       DHOs (BPS 1-11),   the Finance rules
Government                                     III Officers to       recruit personnel    rate contract          DOH by March 94.       & Div. Directors   on experimental
- Restoring            exercise              in BPS 1-S             for supply of        2. Approval of          (BPS 1-15)          basis - Dec. 93
delegated              financial power                              medicines direct   procedure for            - Selection
administrative                               - ADHO {BPS-18) to   to RtSCs, local        local purchase of    Committees
authorities Dec.       - DHO exercise        be declared            purchase of          medicines by SMo       constituted for
93.                    powers to             category IV            medicines,           by Nov. 93.             reclultment of
transfer              officers for           delegation of        3. Approve             staff at Distt.
- Development of       personnel upto        financial power        powrrs to,           delegation of             D iiv. levels;
management n.odules   BPS-16                                         MOS/S5:0s for       follow2no pooers        -  r,c-harge of
June 93                                      - M.Os at BHUs to    posting of             and issue              every PHC
initiate               staff;               nctification by        notified unit as
- Set up Task                                disciplinary           - TOR, prepared    Fet- 94:.                 initiating
Force to study                               action if              for engagement       a) SMOs of RHCs        officer for ACRs
personnel &                                  required, and          of consultants       with Admn:             of paramedic
financial                                    sanction casual        for health           authority to hire    staff, S DOO as
management of PHC                            leave upto one         manual.              and fire st4ff         Cousiter-sioning
as well as                                   week, and to                                upto BPS-S.            offi.er
procurement 6                                undertake                                   b) 5140 to act as
supply of drugs &                            performance                                 DDO for BHUs.
budgetary                                    evaluation of                               c) SMO to have
allocations of                               facility staff                              financial powers
RHCs & BHUs study                                                                        of category IV
completed by June                            - Mos of RHC/BHU                            officers for
94                                           have reasonable                             making purchases.
imprest for
contingencies/
emergencies



:4
3. Decentralize Administrative and finAncial Powers fContinued)
BALOCHISTAN                                   NWFP                                      PUNJAS                                    SIHDH
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to       Action to be taken 1 Action Prior to    Action to be taken  Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993        During 2993/94        Sept. IS, 1993       During 3993/94       | Sept. 15, 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. 1iS  1993     During 1993/94
- Drugs and                               dl $HO to be          - Authority, for
medicines procured                        empowered to          selecting
on rate control as                        purchase medicines   candidates for
per EDL and                               locally upto 10%      enrollment in
supplied to                               of budget.            paramedics
BHU/RHC, bills                            e) to give powers    training
paid by ADHos                             to 4.O. of BHU to    institutions has
initiate              been
- Standardize                             disciplinary          decentralized
equipment for PHC                         action against the
facilities and                            staff of the BHU.    - Fin, powers of
follow purchase of                        t) To give 34O. of   oHos enhanced to
drugs and                                 SHU financial         Cat.11
medicines,                                powers to operate
procedures and                            iLprest account
processes                                 for contingencies.
finalized, Jan. 94                        4. To commence
posting Stios xn
SHtO t/C RHCs to be                      tiPS-lB in fHHCs by
administrative                            Dec: 1993.
head of RHC and                           S. Approve TOR and
designated 8SHUs                          appoint
consultants to
prepare Hanual Ist
draft June 94



3.  Decentrali2o Adainiatrative and Financial Powers (ContinuedI
BALOCHISTAN                                   NWFP                                       PUNJAB                                     Su",N
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 1S, 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. 1S, 1993      During 1993/94         Sept. 1S, 1993      During 1993/94
- formulate
training progr _.
for managing the
operations/
activities of SNOB
by February 1994.
6. Cormence
training of SnOs
in exercising the
revised
administrative and
financial powers
by April, 1994.



4. Imorove Gender Stafflno Imbalances
BALOCIIISTAN                                   NW.'P                                     PUNJAB                                      SINDH
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken | Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993      During 1993/94
- Decision to         - Relaxation of        - Study conducted   - Review issues of   Working group           1. Preparation arid   - Career pattern   - Identification
allow Rs.400 per      age & entry of         by CIDA               recruitment,          constituted. for    approval of job        developed for        of hard areas,
month to temale       qualifications for                           training,              preparing           description and        LHVs by creating   hard areas
medical staff          female trainees       - h list of           retention and          service rules/      service rules of       supervisory         allowance 6 case
serving outside       Dec. 93                incentives/           promotion of          career structure   LHV Cadres by           posts at Distt/    for financial
municipal limits                             reforms               female staff Dec.    for LHVs and tor   June, 1994.              Div. &               incentives taken
- Paymeot of           identified and       93                     identification      2. Change LH.V         Provincial          up with the
stipend to school    approved by                                   of hardship         cadre from             levels              Government
girls entering        Technical             - Finalize             areas               Divisional to          - For admin.
health profession    Committee headed    recommendations                               district Cadre.        positions, no       - By June 94: -
tagreements &         by D.C. Health        and approved by                            Issue notification   gender
budget allocations                          provincial                        *        by June 1994.          discrimination      a) approve hard
made) for 94/95                             government Harch                           3. Selection, and    - Gender task-        areas alloiance;
budget                                      94                                         promotion of LHVs    force appointed
to Senior LHVs by    in Nov. 92           b) create
- Publicity 6                               - Decisions                                June, 1994.            - Number of         supervisory posts
Education campaign                          notified &                                 4. The Health          admissions seats   for LHVs at
to increase                                 implementation                             Department to          for training of   Oistt., Div. 6
recruitment-                                started by April                           identify the          LIVN  & FHTs         Prov. levels
complete all                                94                                         underserved/           raised from lS0
arrangements by                                                                        hardship areas and   to 300 each;          c\ Correct the
Dec. 94                                     - Budget                                   devise                 -  Posts for        anomal) of pay
allocation for                             methodologies         which only women   scale of LHVs d-8
-Free                                       94/95 made by May                          lwhich may include   are eligible          6 8-9 between
accommodation to                            94/95                                      monetary               have been           Sindh 6 other
female health                                                                          incentives) for       upqraded (e.g.       Provinces
workers in rural                                                                       improving              Principal of
areas by Dec. 93                                                                                              Public Health
Schools,
Director MCHI
Services p



4.  Improve Gender Staffing Imbalances (Continued)
BALOCNISTAN                                   NWFP                                     PUNJAB                                     SINDH
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 1S, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. I5S  1993     During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993      Durlng 1993194
- Initiate work on                                                                   availability of        - Women
auxiliary training                                                                   health staff in        candidates
schools 6 after                                                                      these areas by        eligible for all
!           training schools                                                                     December, 1993.        paramedic
for females June                                                                                           progranmes -
94                                                                                   S. Changing TA         notification
rules from fixed      issued June 93
- Identify                                                                           to open TA based
hardship/ under                                                                      on journeys            - 16 other posts
served areas 6                                                                       performed for LiVs  for women
deviae                                                                               Notification by        doctors upgraded
methodologies for                                                                    Dec. 1993.             from 8-18. 8-19;
improving female                                                                                           women are
health staff in                                                                      6. Selection at       eligible for
such areas Dec. 93                                                                   Markaz level of       promotion
- Budgetary                                                                          girls for             against 165
provision for hard                                                                   admission in LIIV    other upgraded
ship areas April                                                                     schools by Dec.       posts
94                                                                                    1993.
- Creation of                                                                                               - Comparable
Senior LHV                                                                                                 promot ion
positions in 94/9S                                                                                         opportunities to
budget by April 94                                                                                         higher posts
exists for both
female and male
staff



HEALTH
5.  DOHj Ixeanded Partilioation in Pogulation Proara_
sALOCHrSTAN                                   NWFP                                       PUNJhB                                     SItOH
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken | Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
sept. 15. 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94       | Sept. 1S, 1993      During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993      During 1993/94
- Training plan to  420 health               - Training plans    - Curricula for         - lot training      - Revision of job    - Training plan    - By Dec. 93, job
train health          facilities             for personnel of    training revised        plan under          description of         under               descriptions of
personnel in FP       providing FP           Health Department   and implemented -    implementation         health workers has   implementation        health workers
under                 services - June 94   fin consultation    April 94                  (210 WMOs & 241    started with a          No. of health       revisedto include
implementation                              with PWDO  being                             LHVs already        view to include FP   personnel             Family Planning
- DTCs functioning   implemented            - District            trained):            by Dec. 93            trained up to
- 81 female                                                       Technical                                                         June 93:            - establish
doctors trained G   - Revision of            - contraceptive      committees are         - 811 health        - Revision of in-    - Male Drs.: 917   contraceptive
177 LHVs/FHT          health workers'        services being,      functional in all    outlets have          service curriculum   - WH40s: 459          distribution
job description to   provided in 552        the districts         potentiaL to        by DON C its           - LNVs: 238         system through FWA
- 159 health          include FP as a        health outlets       April 94               provide             piloting by Dec.       - FHTst 88          of PWD by Apr. 94
facilities            normal function -                                                  contraceptive       93                     - NMTs.  69
providing             June 94                - DOH staff          Duties of health       Services                                                       - By March 94,
contraceptive                                trained in FP:       staff will be                              - DTCs functioning   - 134 health          DTCs functional in
services              - Establish            135 Wtos; 539        enriched to            - 29 District                              facilities          all Distts; and
contraceptive         LHVs; 171 FHTs;       include family        Technical            - establish           provide             establish
- DTCs established  distribution             Managers (21);       planning component   Committees            contraceptive          contraceptive       monitoring system
in 13 program         system to provide    Male doctors           June 94                established         distribution          services;            through DTCs (HIS)
districts (for        contraceptives to    (517); Male                                                       system through PWA                         by March 94,
entire province) 6  upgraded RHCs &          M4edical                                    - Health            of PWD at 50% of       - pTcs
meeting               sHUs where trained   Technician (517),                             facilities          health facilities    functioning in        - By June 94:
periodically          staff is posted -    mid-wives/Dais                                provided IUD        by June 94, 6 100%   15 out of 18
June 94               (610) also                                  insertion kits       by Dec. 94;           districts            1. 70% female
trained                                     by PWD                                                         paramedic staff
- Identify pre and                                                                     - establish           - Revised in-       trained in IUD
in-service            - District                                  - 289 RHCs          monitoring system    service training   insertion;
training needs to    Technical                                    provided with a    to be implemented    curricula has
provide FP            committees (DTC)                            male motivator       by DTCs by June 94   been revised and
services Dec. 93      established in                              (by PWD)                                   is ready
all Districts                               responsible for
contraceptive
supplies to BHUs
N



5.  DOB Expanded Participation in Population Pronramme (Continued)
BALOCH41STAN                                    NWFP                                         PUNJAB                                       SINDH
Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to          Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 1S, 1993         Otiring 1993194         Sept. 1S, 1993        During 1993/94        |Sept. 1S, 1993        During 11993194         Sept. 1S, 1993       Duringj 1993/94
- Preparation of       - Funds allocated                             - Pre-service         - By June 94,                               2. 70% health
pre-services &         by MPW to                                     curriculum for        provide IUD                                 facilities with
revision of in-        Regional Training                             medical students   equipment in                                   female F workers
service training       Institute for                                 & LHVs prepared    facilities where                               providing FP
curricula - June       training of Wtos                              & sent to             fen.ale staff are                           3. IUD kit in
94           6           paramedicals                                Federal              working                                      place in 70% of
Government                                                        health facilities
- Continue             - Funds allocated
training of health   to District Pop.
personnel in FP        Uelfare Officer
techniques             (DPwo) for
training 6 male
medical
technicians
tN



124
1.    Assurance of adequate funding for 8th 5-Year Plan and protection of ADP
allocations
2.    Improved program management
3.    Increased participation of provincial governments
4.    Human resource development
s.   Increased private sector participation, including NGOs
6.    Ensure adequate supply of contraceptives



POPULATION
FEDERAL                                     PUNJAB                                  SINDH
Policy Issues               Actions taken by    Steps to be taken   Action taken by          Steps to be taken    Action taken by      Steps to be
September 15.1993   during 1993-94        September 15. 1993   during 1993-94         September 15.        taken during
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    L   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I  L               I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    L   1993    1 993-94
1. financial Issues         - Rs 9.1 billion      - ECNEC Approval     PCI cleared by       Approved PCI by       PCI cleared by       ECNEC approval
Development Budget:       Program part of       of PCIs -            CDWP: Aug 1993        ECNEC - Dec 1993     CDVP on Aug 29,      of PCI by Dec
draft 8th Plan       Dec 1993                                                         1993                 1993
- 8th Plan Allocation      - 8th Plan            - Approval of 8th
Program PCIs         Five Year Plan -
awaiting ECHEC       June 1994
approval
- ADP Allocation            - Rs 1.1 billion      - Review ADP         Rs 408.620 millton   - Provincial          Rs 164.220           - Recasting of
allocated for        1993-94 in the       for 1993-94           Program for 1994-    million for 1993-   annual plan
1993-94              light of                                   95 prepared - Dec    94                   based on
expenditure for                            1993                                      approve ADP -
first 3 months -                          - NIS Revision and                         Oct 1993
Oct 93                                    allocation to be                           - Preparation
- ADP 1994-95                             made for PWP & not                         of plan for
prepred Jan'94                             12 different Sub-                         1994-95 - Dec
- Allocations for                         projects                                   1993
1994-95 approved                                                                     Release of
June 1994                                                                            funds in Oct
1993. Jan and
T Timely Releases           - Timely payment    - Timely releases                                                 Releases for Ist    April, 1994
of salary            in Oct 1993. Jan                                                 quarter received
component already   & April 1994
resolved for                                                                                              Match
Balochistan                                                                                               recurrent
expenditure
Recent expenditures                                                                                               Proposals            needs to
prepared            revised
operational
I___________ I_____                                                                   plan.



POPUIATION
FEDERAL                                     PNJAB                                   SIWDR
Policy Issues                Actions taken by    Steps to be taken   Action taken by         Steps to be taken    Action taken by      Steps to be
September 151993   during 1993-94        September 15. 1993   during 1993-94        September IS.        taken during
_ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    L    1993  1993-94
2. Program Management        - Planning Units    Strengthen            Strategic planning   - Further                                  Strengthen
Issues                    exist in Ministry   Strategic              and Operational       Strengthening of                          strategic
- Strategic Planning     and Provinces        Planning Units -    Capacity                Strategic and                             planning
continuous           Strengthening -       Operational                               capacity at
process              June  1994           planning capacity                         provincial
at all levels                             level June
- Ilmpeont                                1994
Planning capacity
Plan
- Rolling plan
prepared every
year
- Operational Plann?ng       - Reasonable         Strengthening        Limited               Operational          Draft Plans          Strengthen
Capacity exists      Operational          Operational           Planning Capacity    prepared             operational
In Ministry and     Planning at           Planning Capacity    Plan prepared at                           planning
Provinces            Ministry leve. -    exists at              Divisional.                               cap4city at
June 1994            Provincial and        Dfstrict Tehsil                           provincfal.
District Levels      Levels - June 1994                         divisional
district and
tebsil levels
- June 1994
- Supervision                                                                                                                          Develop a
gender
specific
supervision
plan
Policy on
supervision
and plan
promu gated by
June. 1994



POPULATION
FlDERAL                                     PUNJAB                                  SINDIIH
Policy Issues               Actions taken by    Steps to be taken 1 Action taken by          Steps to be taken    Action taken by      Steps to be
September 15.1993   durlng 1993-94         September 15. 1993   during 1993-94        September 15.        taken during
________________________ _ I  ___________________   _____   I   ___                  11993                 1993-94
_____ 1 _ .___    ____  . __ _                                                         .I      .       ._                  _           _
- Monitoring I              Monitoring b         Review Monitoring   H&E Units exist at   - Revfew Completed                           Provide
Evaluation                 Evaluation Units    and Evaluation         Divisional and        at MSE System -                           availability
exist in Ministry   System - June         Oistrict offices      June 1994                                  to technical
and Provinces        1994                                                                                  directorate
for field
monitor tnq.
Weekly
technical
field
monitorin
visit by
technnical
Directorate to
- Operational Research                            - Review                                   - Research Agenda                         be introduced
Coepleted                                  Prepared - June                           by March 1994
Research - Dec                             1994
1993
- Review
Commissioned
Research - Dec
1993
- Prepare an
Agenda for
Operational
Research - May
1994
- Plan for
Improved Capacity
Dave I!Fmet



POPULATION
FEDERAL                                      PUNJAB                                   SINDH
Policy Issues                Actions taken by      Steps to be taken    Action taken by         Steps to be taken    Action taken by       Steps to be
September 15. 1993    during 1993-94        September 15. 1993   during 1993-94         September 15.         taken during
-    __ _ __ '_   .= -_-_    _   ,  :  :  7  -   .    -  -      =  : = =---.-._     _ ~1993                 1993-94
- Strengthen senior                                                                                                                        - Fill vacant
management capacity of                                                                                                                      posts
PWO. Sindh                                                                                                                                 December. 1993
- Sanction and
fill new posts
for 1993-94
- Review Funding                            Initiate step
3. Increased                 Servise Delivery      - Review Funding                            arrangements - Feb                          to transfer
participation of             already with the      arrangements                                 1994                                       accounts to
Provincial Governments       Provinces             between                                     - Financial Powers                          provincial
Functional                                      Provincial and                              to be delegated to                          A G  office
Decentralization                                 Federal                                     Program Officers
Governments - Feb                           of Punjab - June                                                      c
1994                                        1994
- PSDP allocation                           - Personal
to be made under                            recruitment Powers
one head and not                            to be
under 12                                    decentralized -
different                                   June 1994
canponents - Dec                            - Supervision
1993                                        delegated to field
- Federal PSDP                              staff and
release to                                  organizations
Provincial                                  revised - June
Governments to be                           1994
made on quarter ;y
basis - Jan&
April. 1994
- Federal
functions
redefined; Plan
finalized June
.___________________  1994



POPUIATION
FEDERAL                                    PUNJAB                                 SINDU
Policy Issues               Actions taken by    Steps to be taken   Action taken by        Steps to be taken    Action taken by      Steps to be
September 15.1993   during 1993-94        September 15. 1993   during 1993-94       September 15.        taken during
1993                1993-94
- Family Planning           - Health Staff       - Continue           - 210 WHO and 441    To provide            - Training plan     - District
services through health    Trained in FP         current              LHVs Trained         technical             under               Technical
outlets of Line             methods. Male        arrangements of      - 811 Health         assistance to plan   implementation       Camittees
Department:                 Doctors: 1444 -      training and         Clinics Provide FP   activities - April  - No. of health       functional In
- Health Deptartment       Female Doctors:      contraceptive        services             1994                 personnel already   all districts-
885 - 1anagers:21   supply to health      - 22 DTCs            - Existing           trained upto         March 1994
- Kale              outlets - June       established           arrangements to      June. 1993           - Job
paramedies:586 -    1994.                                      train staff and      - Male               description of
Female               - Review current                          provision of         doctors:917          health workers
paramedics:1454 -   arrangements in                            Contraceptives to    - UMOs:459           revised to
Outlets providing   the light of                               continue - June      - LHVs:238           include family
fP services:2256    family health                              1994                 - FHTs:88            planning - Dec
projects and                                                   MHTs:69              1993
performance of                                                                      - Establish
Health Dept -                                                  - District           contraceptive
March 1994                                                     Technical            distribution
- Introduce                                                    Committees           system through
family planning                                                created in 15        FWA (Male) of
methods In all                                                 districts out of    PMID. Sindh -
pre-service                                                    18                   April 1994
training programs                                                                   - Establish
of health                                                                           monitoring
personal - June                                                                     system (HIS)
1994                                                                               thorugh OTCs -
- Jobs of health                                                                    March 1994
personnel revised                                                                   - 0% FemAle
to include nP                                                                       parmedic
service and                                                                         staff trained
notified - June                                                                     in IUD
1994                                                                                insertion
- ?O0X health
facilities
with female
workers
provide
contraceptive
services
- UD



POPULATION
FEDERAL                                     PUNJAB                                  SINDH
Policy Issues               Actions taken by    Steps to be taken   Action taken by          Steps to be taken    Actfon taken by      Steps to be
September 15.1993   during 1993-94        September 15. 1993   during 1993-94        September 15.        taken during
1993_                1993-94
place in 70X
of health
facilities
with female
staff
- Quarterly
meetings of
WHll PIED.
Sindh, Tils.
PHSs, fil
Schools
- Education:                - Population          - Continue           - Pre-service
Population education      Education Cell In   training of            training of al)                                                                          0
in formal school          Curriculum Wing      secondary school    trainee, teachers
system                    of WOE                teachers             lnlcude Population
established 1983    - Developed
- Revision and       curriculum of
development of       population
curriculum and       education for
materials on         primary schools -
population for       June 1994
secondary            - Materials
education schools   developed of
* Textbooks for      primary schools -
classes VI-X in      June 1994
the subject of       - Curriculum
languages, social   revised for
Studies. Pakistan   middle and
Studies. General    secondaWr schools
Science & Home       - June 1994
Economics include      Development of
material of          training package
Population           for resource
fducation            persons - June
1MO00 Teachers     1994
fained
District



POPUIATION
FEDERAL                                  PUNJAB                               SI9DH
Policy Issues             Actions taken by    Steps to be taken   Action taken by     Steps to be taken   Action taken by     Steps to be
September 15,1993   during 1993-94     September 15. 1993  during 1993-94       September 15,      taken during
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  1    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  1993  11993-94
Education
Officers 8
Managers trained
- PTC/CI and B.Ed
curricula
revised, learning
l _______________________  materials   revised
i     __                    .  _    _             _     _.._                                    __         I  ____
_      __                 j .  _ _    _        -I   _ _   _               , _ _ _        _    __          I   __             iI
____ I- I-                                                                           I -                                     I__-     :



POPULATION
N V F P                            BALOCHISTAN                                 AK                                    FANA
Policy        Action Taken by      Steps to be      Action taken by       Steps to be      Action taken by      Steps to be      Action taken by      Steps to be
1993-94                               1993-94                                1993-94                               1993-94
*. vNgol MINSIB
Developmaent      PC-1 cleared by   -Approved PC-1    PC-I cleared by
Budget            CDWP- Aug. 1991   by SItCN   - Dec.  CatP on Aug.
8tb Plan                              1993               29, 1993.
allocation
APP allocation    Re. 115.910         -Provincial        Re. 52.950         Timely
million for        Program for        million for        quarterly
1993-94            1994-95            1993-94.           releases Oct.
prepared - Dec.                       1993. Jan.
1993                                  1994. April
1994.
Expenditure                           Purther
development of
(rapid)
financial
monitoring
2.  _m 6 ruAw    IBSUpB
-Strategic        Planning r'nit     -Strategic and      Planning Unit   |-  orkahop on
Planning          available          Operational         available          strategic
Capacity                              planning
Strengthening -                       concepts - Mar.
June 1994                              1994.
-  Situation
analysis   June
1994.
-Operational      Limited            Operational         Limited            Month-vise work   Limited              Month-wise Work   Limited             Month-wise Work
Planning          Operational        Planning            operational        plans for each    capacity at          Plan by eacb     | capacity at        Plan for each
Planning           capacity           planning           district by         mAos.              district           tWigs.             district
Capacity exists   created at          capacity exists   Nov. 93.                                prepared by end                       prepared by end
at Provincial      Divisional &       at provincial                                             Dec. 1993.                            Dec. 1993.
and District       Federal levels    and district
Level.             - June 1994.       level.
In-service
training and
recruitment of
new staff.



POPULATION
N V F P                              BALOCHISTAN                                   AJK                                     PANA
Policy         Action Taken by       Steps to be       Action taken by |   Steps to be         Action taken by        Steps to be       Action taken by       Steps to be
issues         Sept. 15, 1993       taken during        Sept. 15, 1993       taken during       Sept. 15, 1993       taken during       Sept  15,  19s3      takesi dur3ng
1993-94                                   1991-94                                  1993-94                                 1993-94      l
-M4onitoring       M&E Units exist    -Review              M&E Units exist    -Strengthening        Basic nucleus       -Establish          Basic nucleus        -Establishment
and Evaluation    at Divisional         Completed of        at provincial       of provincial       exists.              Population          exists.             of Pop. Yelfare
and District        M&E System -        level.              monitoring unit                          Unit.                                   cell at FANA
Offices.            June 1994.                              and creation at                          - Establish                             110s.
divisional and                          system of flow                           -Design of
district                                logistic &                              system for flow
levels.                                 information                             of informatioll
- Review of MaE                         system.                                 a
system                                                                          contraceptives.
completed, to
include input,
process, and
output
indicators
responsible to
system's
performance by
June 1994.
3. INCRASR PARTICIPATIfm OF PROVIC1UAL U.VT.a
Provincial       Chief Minister       -Review Funding                         -Review Funding
governiments     invited to open    Arrangements                              Arrangements
inter-depart'l      between Federal                         between Federal
workshop on         and Provinces -                         MPW and
promotion of        Feb. 1994.                               Provinces -
population          -Regular                                Dec. 1993.
planning in         meetings                                 -Reflection of
line                Provincial                              provincial
departments.        Population.                             population
Provincial          Welfare                                 budget in
Population          Council, of                             provincial ADP
Council             Population                               for FY94-95.
meeting.            Welfare
Steering
rommi t tee.
-PaD and
Finanice teviews
of PPIWD
activities
st retngt iened-



POPULATION
N V F P                              EALCHISTAM                                    AJK                                   FA
Policy        Action Taken by       Steps to be   J Action taken by         Steps to be       Action taken by       Steps to be   f Action taken by        Steps to be
Issues         Sept. IS, 1993       taken during       Sept. 29, 1993           taken during   Sept.                                                          13, 1943 taken durinq  Sept. IS,  1993  taken durinS
I =Sues  1Sp.1,19              ta993e 94 d                                1993-94                                 1993-94                                1993-94
Line               -135 100 and       -To provide         Involved 159        To involve 420
Departments        539 tJVa. 171       technical           health outlets;   new outlets,
-Health            rTs, 21             assistance to       trained 81          train 130 4oa,
-Labour            managers, 519       plan activities    LNOsj 177            32 WMOs, 68
-Education         male doctors        - April 1994.       UIVs/FWTs.          paramedics.
-Social            trained.            -existing           Involved a          Involve S more
Welfarq            -522 Health         arrangements to   health outlets    health outlets
-Local Govt.       Outlets provide   train staff and   of local govt.         of LOD.
PP services.        provision of        Involved 10         Involve 11 more
-DTCs              contraceptives    health outlets    outlets of LWD.
established in    to continue -        of Labour            Involve 1
all districts.      June 1994.          Welfare.            health outlet
-Joint meetings    -Implement DONs   No SUD outlet         of SWD.
with DOm to         decision to        as yet.              Involve 2
agree concrete      involve all DOM    Involved 13         health outlets
steps for           facilities, to    health outlets       of IGPC.
improved           develop further   of IGPC.                                                                                                                  -
cooperation.        and implement
-Pre-service       plan for
training of all   training DoN0
trainee            staff, to
teachers           ensure regular
inzclude            reporting of FP
Population         activities by
Education.          DOH facilities
Iwith
consolidations
provided by
PPID to DO1R,
with
coordination
between DOH and
PPWD personnel,
to ensure
regular
meetings of
District
Technical
Committees, to
decIate large



POPULATION
N V F P                              BALOCHISTAN                                  AK                                     FANA
policy        Action Taken by       Steps to be       Action taken by       Steps to be       Action taken by       Stepe to be       Action taken by      Steps to be
Isues          Sept. 159 1993       taken during       Sept. 159 3993           taken during  Sept.                    99 1993  taken during  Sept. i,  1993  taken durin
1993-94                                1993-94                                 1993-d4 d193-94
health
facilities as
focal points
for PP
activities,
interdepart' l
workshops for
managers.
Continue
training for
all graduate
DOm staff.
4. tRESS REZXJU:CS DEVRlONIT
-Requirement                           -Let out study      -PC-l cleared       -Consultant        4 specialists,      -Meeting with       -In-service         -Meeting with       F.
-Training.:                            to develop a       by CWDP.            hired to            10 each IM0s       M"P  for             training given    MPM to finalize    w
.In-service                          Human Resource      -Re. 500 a          prepare a study   and ULVs  6 150   clearance of            to 10 WMs, 4        staff 6.
.Pre-service                         Development         month rural         on human            paramedics          Pop. Cell posts   HUVs. 20 Moo 6    resources
-Deployment:                           Plan - June        allowance for        resource            trained,           and training        200 paramedics    availability
.Policy                               1994.              female workers.   development by                            facility.           done.               Nov. 1993.
.Recruitment                                                                 June 1994.                              -Training plan                          -Training plan
of staff                                                                    -Staff                                 ready by D0H by                         designed by
.Staff                                                                       recruitment                             Dec. 1993.                              Dec. 1993.
Transfers                                                                  under approved                           -Staff                                 -Staff
-Staff                                                                         PC-1 by Nov.                            recruitment by                         recruitment by
Remuneration                                                                  1993 and May                           April 1994.                             April 1994.
-Staff                                                                         1994.
Retention
S. 1nOMB   PAUCPAYl OP PPIVAU RSCSOR, Iamn    m0  & CClB_.as
-NGOs                                  -Establish          131 RHPs       .   Train 319 more      Nil                  -Train a           Nil                 -Involve
- SMC                                 links with          involved.          RMPs.                                    involve 100                            village
- Private                             local NGOs,                            Train and                               hakeems and                             communities
Hospitals                          local SMC                               involve 150                            homeopaths.                             23 PHC outlets.
- Cofmunity                           outlets.                                hakeems.                                                                       -Tratn 23 LUVs,
-Assess and        -9 outlets of       Train and                                                                     |50 TAs, 100
enlist private      NGOg involved.      involve S0                                                                     Qws, S00
hospitals for                           homeopaths.                                                                    community
contrac<:ptive                                                                                                         organizers.
surgery as RIIS
8 centers.



POPULATION
N W F P                              BALOCHISTAN                                  AJK                                    FANA
Policy        Action Taken by       Steps to be       Action taken by       Steps to be       Action taken by       Steps to be       Action tak,-n by     Steps to be
Issu es        Sept. 15, 1993       taketi durintg     Sept. is, 1993      taken during       Sept. IS, 1993       taken duriJn9      St-pt  19,  1'993    t4ken durtng
1993-94                                1993-94                                 1993-94                                 1993-94
6.  ADBOUIIIT                          Review the         Continued           Supply and
SUWPPE  OP                            arrangements.      activity.           reporting
co#IRACRPT1Ves                                                                 system in place
for each
district before
March 1994.
13 districts,
10 tehails have
displayed
charts of
supply system,
functional by
March 1994.
7.  "DIRSI1IP                          Ensure PP
CO I4IllENU                           content in all
curricula/
subject matter
for briefings
of new and
existing
politicians and
other leaders.
Develop plan
for
establishing
system of
developing and
fostering
leadership
commitment.
December 9, 1993
m:\pak\sapp\populatn.tab



137
Rural Water SuoDl1 alld Sanitation
A.    Policy Unification
S.    Community Management and Participation
C.    Cost Recovery
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1. Policy Unification
SALOCMISTAN                                   NWFP                                     PUNJAB                                    SIND"
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken  Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15. 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94
- G08 has             No new schemes to    - GONWFP has          The Cabinet will      - GOPunjab has      GOPunjab will         - Unified policy   Procedural systems
formulated a          be undertaken         initiated the        approve a RYSS        decided on a        enforce tSis Siew     on subsidy, cost   being worked
unified policy on   without )4OU signed   formulation of         strategy, based on   unified policy       tariff policy         recovery and        out/drafted
community             by genuine            unified policy by   the committees         of tariff           uniformally, and      handing over of
participation,        village/community    constituting a        recommendations       collection          monitor its           schemes to          Devise
subsidy, cost         organization to       Speaker's                                  (Re.20 for water   implementation         community has       implementation
recovery and O0M    undertake 06M of        Committee which      The Provincial        supply house                              been formulated,   strategy to
cf schemes.           schemes.              has recommended      Aasembl-y will        connection and                            and approved by    operationalizeand
institutional and   endorse the            P.s.8 for                                 the Government      enforce the
- An                  At least 20% of       financial            Cabinet decision      drainage)                                                     unified policy.
"Implementation       existing schemes      policies for         and issue a
Comaittee" headed   will be handed          RtiSS.               notification in                                                                     Undertake
t- Additional         ov.er to ccmmun;ty    - A task force       1993!54.  The Task                                                                  publicity campaion
Chief Secretary       lirreversibly) to    has been formed       Force will                                                                          to inform and
(Dev.), formed.      manage, run and        and its TOR          continue to work                                                                    increase public
maintain.             prepared to          to implement                                                                        awareness on the
implement this       decision.  The P6D                                                                  unified policy.
committee's          Department will
design for the       seek to unify cost                                                                  Familiarization
gradual transfer    recovery and user                                                                    visits by public
of RWSS to users.   participation                                                                        reps. to
- The task force    policies of all                                                                      successf-l
has its report       agencies/programs                                                                   community
and its              promoting RWSS                                                                      participation RWSS
recommendation                                                                                           projects.
under
consideration by
the Sub-Committee
of the Speaker
Committee



R.W.S.S.
2. Community Manaoement and Particioation
BALOCt4rSTAN                                  OW?P                                     PUNJAB                                     sitlol
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken  Action Prior to    Action to be taken
sept. 15. 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993     During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993     Ouring 199'!94
- S.x Community       Formation of          - Speakers  Cmte.   - CONWFP will by       - PHED and P&D      PHED will evaluate   - Supportive         6-12 addicional
Development teams    Village                recommended          Decu 1993              Departments have   performance of         policy              P'Ts to be formed
set up in PliED       Organization gVosi  transfer of RWSS    strengthen PHiED to   started pilot          these 30 schemes       environment laid  and trained to
and Township Water   schemes to local    support village         project to hand                           down for            undertake
- .'en vila?e        UJsers Association    councils.             organizations to      over 06M of RUSS                          ccmmunity           ccmmunit y
crganLzations se:    47.wUU).               - PHED developed    manage 06M.             to 30 user                                involvement in    mctiva:ton in
up                                          a step-wise          GONWFP will           communities in                             future rwss        about 1000
Strengthening PHED   approach to           strengthen the        one district.                             projects under      villages.
to ensure             community            Local Govt. and                                                 the unified
community             participation;       Rural Dev. Dept.      PHEO will select                          poALCy               000 :1:Jages to
Participation as      has started one      and foster inter-    communities for                            deciaraticn.        te orgar.i:ed to
czncev:ed in iDA-    unit for field        agency                the pilot and                                                 tac.e c .r and
?.:SS prc)ect         work and has         collaboration.        invclve electel                           - Six Pr-ect        manace T=pJeted
sanctioned five      - The Task Force      representation                            1:*6.ee,;:-n        rr-.ees.
more; and has        will continue to      in community                              Tear-$ IPTs)
- For any new         started training    seek technical         motivation by                             formed b-  1HED     PITs to consult
scheme communities   of staff.             assistance and        Sept. 1993                                to introduce        200 communities
lvillage             - Task force set    collaborationlcoor                                                communit y          And asscciate them
organxzations and    up for this           dination with                                                   development         (cr preptratxon c'
Township Water        purpose and has      existing donor on                                               work, and are       new schemes 6
users Association)  submitted its          the field IGT2,                                                 undergoing          obtatninn
will be involved      interim report       UNICEF & RWSG-SA)                                               training.           undertaking from
from design stage    for gradual hand    - A coordinated                                                                       them for 0SM.
to contracting        over of existing    structure between
& new schemes to    the line
- Inconsistency       user communities:   departments and
with unified          recommendations      the community
policy due to         are under            development unit
recruitment of tax   consideration of    at the district
collectors to be      the sub-committee   level will be
reviewed and final   - Diset. Dev.         defined in line
decision to be        Boards for RWSS      with Task Force
reached.              notified             recowmendations.



4
3.  Cautl  ovar
sALOCII srtA                                MVP                                      PUNJAB                                   SIMON
Action Prior to      Action to be taken   Action Prior to      Action to be taken  hction Prior to    Action to be taken | Action Prior to   Action tobe taken
Sept. IS. 19S3       During 1993/94        sept. is, 199'      Oi Cring 1993/94      Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94     | Sept. IS, 1993     During 1993J94
- 3 types of cost   for schemes            - The Speakers'     GONWFP will apply    - Chief Minister  COPunjab will           - Cost recovery    evise strategy to
recovery strategy  jmanaged by PHt5D       Committee has       and collect the       has approved a    enforce this new       polcy including   implement new
uggested in the    routine review and  recommended             enhanced rates.       revised water       tariff.  PHEP will  COS subsidy for   schees an the
unxfted policy2      revisSon of           increased RWSS      PHED will start       tariff tRs.20       hire consultants    electricity and   bassi of counjty
tariffs to meet      charges 1R9.30       impro0vd billing      per month for a    to designn  install  recovery through  demand through
1p Ssmple rurap      recurrent costs.      p.M., per house     system over the       house (Water       and operate the       indirect           explicit
schemes - 06H                              connection.         extended area.        supply)             required billing     taxation has       undertaking by
respOnSibLlLty of   Revenue generated    Rs.200 for                                  connection; Rs.$  system, and train    been formulated    coemunsty to
village              frcm one township   initial               Computerized          per month for       its staff in         under the          asintain the
orqanizaCion         will not be           connecc&onI          billing system to    drainage .          operating this       -unified            schetes.
21 Rural schems -  1ierted to other   - GO"#FP has             be extended so as                         system.              Policy.
Foor comm nities -  tcwns for cross-    reviewed the           to "eet target of    - The Board of                                                WOO coamuntcAms
sons subsidy         subs.oy.              administration oS   50% by 1996.          Revenue has         The Board of         - Steps taken to   ttarget) wti be
3) txceptionally                           cost recovery and                         agreed to           Revenue will         deteilI             targeted for
camplex schemes     CO                     has found it can    The Cabinet will      collect the         collect tariffs      procedures and      motivation 6 to
townships -          'Impiementation       be improved;        approve enhanced      tariff through      for PNED.            increase GOS        assume Ott
managed by PHED      Committee  to         caoputerized         rates                Nambagdar on                             revenue to          responsibtittses
with flat rate       devise and            billing has been                          behalf of PHED.                          finance
users charges        pprLodicaily          started in 100                                                                     recurrent           About SOO
(tR.30 per           review the subsidy   ROSS schemes,                                                                       charges for        completed schemes
household, Rs.2S0   structure for poor  with the result                                                                       electricity        will be
per coemrcial        comunities and        that recovery has                                                                  being worked        rehabil&tated
connection.)         the indirect          doubled over                                                                       out,               before the
recovery strategy    previous year in                                                                                       commnity takes
from special tax,   target areas.                                                                                           over.
ceos or levy.
Sufficient
provision to oe
made in AMP/Dudget
for recurrent cost
as per new policy.
I~~~~~



3. Cost Recovery (COntinuedl
SALOCHISTAN                                 mWAP                                     PUNJAD                                   SIND"
Aetion Prior  to     Action to be taken   Action Prior to      Action to be taken  Action Prior to  (Action to be taken   Action Prior to   Action to be taken
Sept. Is, 1991       During 1993/94        Sept. Is. 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. 15i  1993    During 1993/94        Sept. 15. 1993    During 1993/94
-CFfP has                                                                        - Steps taken to  - Proceures for
taken steps t*                                                                     increase           community based
extend improved                                                                    (increasing case  06M will be
billing                                                                            charges on land.  approved and
- Protoma                                                                         cotton, sugar s   enforced by the
balance sheet                                                                      paddy)             government.
developed for                                                                      governrent
coneulting with                                                                    revenue to Met
cosunities on                                                                      part of 06t cost
the nature C cost                                                                  (about 2/3rd)
of new schems. A
pilot project
being impleamented
in 4 villages of
4 districts.
.   .  ,   ,    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
3-



142
PAKISTAN
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMME
... 
AJKE FATA, ICT, and Northern Areas
IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
SUMMARY OF KEY REFORMS



143
AJK:  Azad Jammu and ICashmir
FATA: Federally Administered Tribal Areas
ICT:  Islamabad Capital Territory
NA:  Northern Areas
I



144
9iU-CATXQN
1.   Enhance Girls Primary Education
a.   Introduce Co-Education at the Primary Level
b.   Increase Female Teachers
2.   Strengthen Primary Education Institutions 6 Procedure
a.   Increase Focus on Primary Education
b.   Streamline Site Selection
C.   Revise and Enforce Posting and Transfer Policies
d.   Strengthen data base for Managing Primary Education



EDUCATION
A. Enhgnce Cirls Primary Education
a) Introduce Co-Education at the Primar, Level
AJK                                          FATA                                         IcT                             tlorthern Areas
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to   | Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to bW tacen   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993 j During 1993/94            Sept. 1S. 1993      During 1993/94
constru:tion of       20 schools to be      Combined              Efforts to            Already            |A11 the .7                                 Decision by Chief
:SO gir s primary   constructed and         administrative        convince parents      Islamabad           proposed new                              Commissioner
schools &ncluded      staf fed              system already in   to allow girl           Capital             schools -dill be                          tiorthern Areas.
in 8th Plan                                 place;               students to attend   Territory has         single system.                            and Kashmir
Directorate of       boys schools.          substantively  a                                              Affairs and
Education, FASA                            single system                                                 Niorthern Areas
has notified that                          out of total of                                                Itinistry that: a)
there is no bar                            218 primary                                                    all new schools
on co-education                             schools all of                                                will be girls
upto primary                               the 60 urban                                                   schools which boys
level.                                     schools and Sot                                                can also attend,
rural schools                                                 and b) that
- directive                                are on single                                                  existing schools
issued to appoint                          system                                                        will become co-
aged male                                                                                                 educational
teachers in girls
primary schools.                                                                                          - decisions to be
notified by Chief
- in some areas                                                                                           Commissioner/ttin.-
like Kurram                                                                                               stry
Agency, girls
already attending
boys school but                                                                                                                tn
due to socio-
cultural
condition the
system cannot be
fully implemented
,   .                  ....              .            ............       s_    ,,        ,,                '        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ODICAtION
1. Enhance Girls Primary Educatkon
b) Increase Female Teachers
AJK                                          FATA                                          ICT                             Northern Areas
Action Prior to       Actxon to be taken   Action Prior to        iction to be taken   Action, Prior to    Action tO be taken |Action Prior to    Actton to be taken
Sept. I5S  1993       During 1993/94         sept. 1S, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. IS. 1993      During 1993/94      [Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94
GoAJX nas relaxed    Inter-deparmeneal    Governor has            age relaxation for   Out o' total of  f All 477 new school                           examine relaxation
age rules ito 3'      Task F:rce to be      directed that in    female teachers;        2779 teachers,       teachers to be                            of age and qualify
years) for ten.3.e   established to          future every girl                           65% are women.      hired will be                             rules for female
teachers              determine other       primary school        -  lowering                                women,                                    teachers; and
measures like pay    would include          educational           - transport                                                    issue
levels and            residenttal          qaulification from   facility              - initiate                                notification;
I:,cen.lVes          guarters             y.atric to Middle      provided for        proposal to
for female PTC        rural female        increase transport                        - provisicn of
.eachers;             teachers through   facility for rural                          :ncentive package
a buses.            female teachers                           for female
- recruitment of                                                                    teachers in rezote
addxtional 459                            - initiate                                areas
female teachers in                        proposal to give
BPS 1-7 sub)ect to                        salary incentives
budget allocation                         to rural female
by Federal                                teachers
Go:ernment;
- fret in-service
training and
stipends for
female teachers;                                                                                         __
- appoint retired                                                                                        0
male teachers



EDUCATION
2.  stg.hen Prisiarv Education Institutions & Procedurge
a) Inrease FOCUs on Primary Education
AJK                                          FATA                                          ICt                             Northern Areas
Acticn Prior to       ActLon to be taken   Action Prior to   [Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. IS. 1993   -  6Durino 1993194         Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94
Z07 primary           48 prisary schools                                                Plan proposed        Plan to give:
Orhools buildings   buildings will be                                                   submitted for        S rural schools
are at different      coopleted                                                         SAP                  new building;
stages of                                                                                                    addition of
completion            - furniture and                                                                        classroom in 200
tecahing material                                                                     rural schools
will be provided                                                                      therby having S
to 50 primary                                                                         classrooms in each
schools                                                                               scnools; -alls
constructed in 40
GOAJK will                                                                            rurals girls
establish a                                                                           schools and
Directorate of                                                                        toilets provided
Elemen:ry                                                                             in 25 rural girls
Educatson                                                                             schools; prov{sion
of water in 120
a study required                                                                    rural schools and
to develop                                                                            electricLty in 50
training strategy                                                                     rural schools.                                                  P
and implementat ion
plan for the
Directorate
do



2.  Str ntth Primarv Educatign Institutione A Prtaedure
bi Streamline Site Selection
AJX                                          FATA                                        ICT                             Northern Areas
_et _   5  19_   _uin   93I                jSt.  15  199          Duin -39              Sp.  1, 199         D,in   93/Sp. .S  19,                    Duin _    -,I
Acticn PrAor to       ACtion to be taken   Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken  Action Prior to    Action tO be taken
Sept. It. 993        >4rzn9 1993/94         Sept. Is  1993       During 1993194        Sept. IS, 1993    During 1993/94          Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993/94
For 93/94            Criteria%             Site selection      Proposed to           all sites are      Undertake tbeir TA
Directorate of       - primary schools    is based on 2        improve surveying    provided by the    financing, a
Education, fATA      to be opened where   principles:          procedures for        community free     school mapping
has received from   catchment is                               site selection of   of cost              exercise
all the Agency       atleast 100           - taking schools   schools
Education                                  to remote and                             - sife selection   - formation of
Officers, a list    - a middle/primary   cut off areas         - ongoing scheme      carried out by     committes to
cf :ojsztle Rates  school shall not                            of 25 03 class        District Site      reccnnendlocatior
lh,ch  il be         exist within the      - FDE survey        room) Schools; 3      Selection          of rew schools
considered as and   radius of IS km of   determines            under ccnstruction   Committee
swhen ADP/SAP is     proposed site         minimum of 30       and 10 on line        composed of        - decisions taken
finalized                                  children from      during 93/94          Deputy Director    that all new sites
- land is provided   locality unable                            Education and a   will be
free of cost by       to attend school                         commnity            topographically
c6mmunity/local       because of lack                           representative     appropriate and    s
M4alik                of access                                                    with .,lose
- location of      proxim.ty to
- site is selected                                              schools decided    village
by the Political                                                in consultation    settlements
Agent in                                                        with nA council
consultation with                                               msmbers
Education
Department                                                      - location of
village schools
decided by Vos.
. == r i _ _ . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EDUCATION
2.  Screngtnen Primary Education Institutions & Procedure
c) Revise and Inforce Posting and Transfer Policies
FATA                                          ICT                             Northern Areas
h' '.i',r, -t .'r t . fs- *.1. I. '> n*w^ 2 aS   It.J s, *rt.s.r to   |    Anct    to hu takur,  Action Prior to    Action to be taken n   Action Prior to    Action tO be b.IQfn
Sept..:9S:             jr:nj 19'-/'4        I       1           !uring 1553/94            Seot. 15, 1993    |-Outing 1993/94          Sept. 15. 1993   | During 1993/94
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!ic~~ulr(; 19.9                     set  IS  1993
Primary scr._ols      17" an-, Cabinet                                                    New transfer         Implememtation                             Formation of
teachers frornm       srou:. decide to                                                    policy approved    continues on the                             working group to
Grade cannot ce        exclu_2e any                                                       in 3ovemsber 92      new transfer                               frame merit-based
transfered outsi-e   inter!erence in                                                      by MOE; and          policy                                     postings and
the District          pcst:n-s .nd                                                        being                                                           transfers policy
:.-se-s                                                         rr.plem:ented     
- notification of
- period of.                                                    ,ork;.ng group
rural and urban
stay fixed
- rural urban
inter-transfer
ensured after
fixed days
- remotness of
location traded
off with
direction
- Nlon ICTA
teachers sent to
rural areas
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



tDUCATION
2. Strengthen Primary Education Institutions & Procedure
di Stgengthen data base for Managino Primarv Educatton
IAJK                                        PATA                                         ICT        _                   Northern Areas
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to      Action to be taken   Action Prnor to   Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action tobe taken
Sept. 15. 1993        During 1993/94        Sept. IS, 1993      During 1993194        Sept. 15  1993      During 1993/94        Sept. 15. 1993     During 1993/94
fJEM1S functioning    Decision required    iNEf4S is already    Under the GIS          - Computer has    All data to be put  MENIS working in  Strengthen
tn AJl  and is       to e*tend  NEfIS      housed in the        prolect. the bench   been installed       on line              nA                  statistscs dept.
compiling             activity to Scnool  Directorate ot       mtark will be           in Federal                                                   for compiling
provincial           mapping                Education, FATA.    further               Directorate of                                               educational
statist ics on                              Updated facts and   improved/authenti-   Education                                                     statistics
education                                   figures available   cated.
on educacion in                           - More accurate                                              - preparation of
FATA                - establisnment of  data Is                                                        consolidated
GIS cell and          availatle                                                    protect for
remote sensing                                                                     institutional
Ceoll                                                                               trengthening
- Seminar on GtS                                                                   - extensin of
being organized by                                  .nEWIS to NA
P6D Dept.
J. . , v .. . ._



151
HEALTH
1.   Establish Strategic Planning Mechanism
2.   Re-organize PHC Services and Financing
3.   Decentralize Administrative and Financial rowers
4.   Improve Gender Staffing Imbalances
5.   DOH Expanded Participation in Population Programme



NEALTH
1.  Establish Strategic Planning .%1echanism
AJK                                            FATA                                            ICr                               Northern Areas
Action Prior to    I Action to be taken   Action Prior to            Actxon to be taken   Action Prior to    ActLon to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sec. iS, 1993          Duringq 193/94         Sept. 15, 2993         During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1995      | During 1993/94        [Sept. 15, 1993       During 1993/94
Pianning Unxt          Prepare plans for                             Establish a            Two proposals to                                                  Establishplanning
esrabliihed in         building planning                             planning unit at        initiate                                                         cell at
1lealth D:r.ctcrate   :apacity at                                    the Directorate         institutional                                                    Directorate level
District level -                                                     strengtheninr                                                     by expanding
.Jure 1994                                    - Preparation of       instead of                                                        Health and
rclling plans -        eutatlishment cf                                                  population
April 1594             new facil ttes;                                                   planning mechanism
SAP and 2nd                                                      - June 1994
- Preparation of       Fam .i-: HedIIh
Arnual Plans -         prtject
Aprii !-94
-2%id Famil:.
Health Project
appro7ed b4y
CIIEC dated
11.2.!593
- .he matter has
been d:scussed
tu:ih iiealth 
Division of Dev.
Wing ICT and
agreed for
opening of
imprest acccunt



HEALTH
2. Ae-oraanize PHC Services and Financxnn
AJK                                          FATA                                          ICT                             Ijorthern Areas
ActLon Prior to    | Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action PrLor to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. 15S  1993       Durxng 1993/94  _    Sept. 1, 1993         Ouring 1993/54        Sept. IS, 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. 15, 1993      During 19S3/94
meeting held          staff to be           Improvement/Up-       One BHU to be                              Plan incentive for   Training             Working group
between Planning      provided to these    gradation of new    upgraded to RHC                               botter performance   programs for         formed to study
and Development       centres/units.        Basic Health          and two                                    of CH'ds              health auxallary   reorgarization,
and Fir.ance                                tF-iits, Rural        dispensaries to be                                               staff underway.    prepare
Departments to        - Increase in dev.   dealth Centres         upgraded to BHUs.                                                                    reccmmendatiorns -
meet r.ecessary       and non-salary        and providing         Preventive health                                                - Immunization    :May l9C4
sta'fing needs in   recurring budget *   residential              facilities to be                                                 and 1CH services
the constructed       April 1'54.           quarters with         xncreased.                                                       being expanded.    - nctl!y uwcrklng
Basic Health Units  - CDC program ;c        Basic Health          Construction of S crcur
ar.i Rural Health     be broad based -      Units (included       new SH'Js to start.
Cc-r.t:es.            c.lans and             in SA.?P.            - ccns:rut;:.n .
rccesses prepared                         5 res:dences for
.-une  954.         - Pre service        Basic Health Unit
- ::otirational       training program    M:edxcal Officers
campaign for          for para medics       icat III).
female trainees       included in SAP      - "nrrease non-
planAed and                                 salary bucdget by
approved - April                           current vear
1994.                                      before
- Management                               negotiations and
training to FtfC                            next year by June
macagers - details                         l1S4
prepared and                                - Strengthen CDC
approved - June                             program
1994.                                      - Link health
- Strengthen                                facilities
referral system                            - Referral system
plans approved -                            & suppQrt to PHC
June 1594.                                 - Stari traininq
of PHC managers Ln
management



HEALTH
3. Decentra3ize Administrative and Financial Powers
AJx                                           PATA                                          IC?                              N4orthern Areas
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Actiro Prior to  fAction to be taken   Action Prior co    Action to be taken
Sept. IS, 1993        During 2993;94         Sept. IS  1993  -   During 1993/94           Sept. I5. 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993      During 1993/94
CFO recruiting        Establish a Task                             Setup Task Force       - Propctal for       - Implementation                           Formation of
authorxt? for BPS    Force to review                               to study               recrs:u.ent          feasitle oeacuse                           workin9 group to
1-7                   existing system,                             decentralizing         poI:-,  with         solution :nternal                          prepare
May 1994                                    authority from         Federal GCvt.        ta ICTA                                    recomrmendation
- DHO categoty 11                                                  Federation to Area   alread'
officer for                                                        - Report ready         tn:t;ated                                                       - Personnel and
financial ;urpose                                                  April 1994                                                                             financial
authcrities
- Establish Task                                                                      delegated by KAIRA
Force to Study                                                                        tc area
administrati e~                                                                       authorities
setup for FATA;  nd
not part of                                                                           - notifLcatxon of
provincial setup -                                                                    wor)king group
Report of Tasx
Force ready by
April 1994
- Study group
constituted to
revxew
decentralization
of powers to
Agency Surgeons -
June 1994
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             ~    ~~~~                   ~       ~~ ..  .. ..  ..    .     .



HEALTH
4. Improve Gender StaffinQ rmbalances
AJK                                           PATA                                           ICT                              r)orthern Areas
Act:on Pricr to        AC:ion to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior tGo   Action to Oa taken
Sept. IS,  99uring 1993/94                    Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. IS, l9S9    During 1993/94            Sept. 1S. 1993      During 19t3194
'nder current          For fucure                                   Distt. Health Dev.                          At BHU level 2                             Working group to
ins em. 'emale      raOanc;es female                               Centres fDHDC) in                            incharge S.MOS; ail                        draw
a"   if                ataff '  wi.ll                              citLes bordering                             female CHWs tc ne                          recommer.dationaiid
.:a..atiel :s         =.:ntinue to be                              the agencies will                           appointed.                                  pian of acticn -
sre!erred for         C       preference                           train. bHV/nurses/                                                                      Dec. 19;3
recruitment                                                        para medic staff                             - use SAP to
- Prepare plans                              (under Family                               inrtiate hir:r.g of                        - Prepare plan for
-Onl  cne school    for the                                      Health Project).                            CH1Ns, and ISAs                             requiree.ent of
..|rrer.tl  trains    requ:rement of                                                                            (subject to                                :emale health
!,:sa,e heal:h                              - appointment of                             Federal Gov.t.                             Laramedizo
; i  : r;mes::.                               doct:rs at SHUs                             recruitment   1                 a                       an:z
..C---w:tn a                                 - 8DHCs to start                            and availabl.i:t.                           p:an
traLnin,; plan -                             traninon;                                   cf funds)
i  'une '?94                                 - proposed Rs.1500                                                                      - not ifcation o'
p.m. Rural                                                                             working group
Compensatory
Allowance for
female r.O cotmpared
with Rs.1200 p.m.
for male Po                                                                                              Ln
- sp*cial project
unser SAP for
tratning para
medic staff
including nurses
with stipendar
- Develop a plan
for Human Resource
De%.   training
plan - June 1994



HEALTH
s.  DC" Expanded ParticipatLon in Poyulation Programme
AJK                                           FATA                                           ICT                             tlorthern Areas
j Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to         ActLon to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to he taken
Sept. 15. 1953         Dur_ng 1993/94         Sept. 15. 1993        During 1993/94'        Sept. 1'. 1993      During 1993/94       | Sept, 15. 1993      Durirn  199l /94
Collabaration          Expansion of FP                              Extension of                               CHWs 'till initiate                         Joxnt sneetings of
already exist          services in PHC                             contraceptive                               community level                             Population
betw,een H9.alth and    i^:l.z:es                                   supply to selected                         population                                  Ministry and VIA
Population Wi:&re                                                   1J0 SHUs, 5 RHCs,                          programme                                  Health
Departments                                                         6 MCHs (free of                                                                        Directorates
cost under Family                                                                      finalize
- Population                                                       Health Pro)ect)                                                                        modalitles - June
program part cf                                                                                                                                            1994
?fC in a !ir.tee                                                    - 3 day trainino
r.umber c'                                                          :ef _H'..s at BHUs                                                                     - M?a: arc Health
9 fa:;l::ies                                                                                                                                              !::rectra:e tc
- S3  June c4, 1':.                                                                    issue necessary
usage of famLly                                                                       directxves to
planning is                                                                            their Off'ces in
expected to be                                                                         flortherr. Areas to
ach:aved                                                                               implemer.t the
programme.
- Agree on
procedures of
provxding services
at all health care
facilities - Dec.
1993                                                                                                         4-.
a,
Start providing
family planning
ser-vices in
selected healttl
facilities - June
1994
.   _  .  ,. . . . _ _ _ .j



157
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.   Policy Unification
2.   Community Management and Participation
3.   Cost Recovery



R.W.S.S.
1. Policy Unification
AJK                                            FATA                                            ICT                               porthern Areas
| Actic'n Prior to       ActLJn to be taken   Actxon Prior to          Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to te taken
se  . IS. !993        Durina 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993         During 1993/94          Sept. 1S  1993      During 1993/94          Sept. lIS  1993      During 1993/94
l   urniorm           Approval of the         PHEO's Task Force   Recommendations of   - Draft                    Implementation of                            Prepare working
c:s-edure ,or RtXS   uniform  policy tor   has given interim   Task Force                    resolution of        pro)ect sub)ect to                           paper showing
Pr_     e ;v3.*  as been   Xater Suppl-        report to             reviewed and            rural area           capital cost                                 existing schemes
r.::ated ::r          :'rogram                implement             appropriate             Coordination         funding of 11                                under various
Speakers              decisior  taken by    Comsittee on           schemes                                      pr-gram,mes and
Committee's           Dec. 93.                water charoes                                                     make
decision for                                  levied by Union                                                   recommendations
gradual transfer    Uniform policies          Councxils passed                                                  for implementation
of P.1S schemes to   in place by Dec.                                                                           cf unifors. polcy.
user cornrnunit es    a4.
r*artcpatn on i
a.rura.
s     rcnerdte
_  :mplement
uniform poticy !tr
PWS sector wh.ch
transters O&M
responsibiL~ty t
-crmmunities and
increases
commnunity            l
partiOLpAtion in
scheme preparat &tr.
and
~mplementat ion.



R.W.S.S.
2. Community Management and Participation
_             AJK                                          FATA                                         ICT                             Northern Areas
i A:tLon Prior to      Action to be taken   Action Prior to        Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taker
Se;t. 15, 1,13       During 1993/94         Sept. 15. 1993       During 1993/94        Sept. 15. 1993      During 1993/94        Sept. 15. 1993      During 1993/94
[' ,A and DtICEF                             In-service           Strengthen PHED to   Water User's          Limited NGO           L&RD is             Preparation of a.
asststel ,WsS                               training of PHED    support VDOs to        Committees          presence, however    preparing donor    new schemes usir-
prsects    h                                staff started        undertake & manage   organized in         concerned village    assisted             community ed
comiuniti                                                        schemes               most villages       Committees will       projects in         approach.
part.cipaticn                               - Directive                                                    participate in        collaboration
aireay jinzer.)av                          issued to            - Approval of PCI                         implementation 6      with AYRSP with    Tra ning of sta:
establish            of Pak-German                             O&M stage             a community led   on commuritty
community based      Promotion of PHED                                               a-proach            partic:pat:n ;n
organizations        IPhase II),                                                                         AY.RSP-HPDI.
including
increased training
- Revitalization
of multi party
steering committee
.                                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%



3. Cost Recovery
AJK                                           FATA                                           ICT                             Northern Areas
Action Prior to       Action to be taken   Action Prior to         Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken   Action Prior to    Action to be taken
Sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94         sept. IS, 1993        During 1993/94         Sept. IS, 1993       During 1993/94         Sept. 15, 1993       During 199 /94
In the rural                                                                              As in I above        As in I above
desveloFpent
sector. PISS
s1beres ar- run
and mainr.tar..A tv
conur.. t ies
throug' their
,water ::fr.7.:tees.
Gra:ity sche5es
61.0c pur:ring .;nltS
ha,e *. f!sent
tal.ftr. I.1e.. Lr
thr. p.. r.?
cop6-c;t:. c' tr.e
cemmun.ties.
- soff.e cr,ounities
ha.e r.a nta:ned
Ots: ccst reco:ery
syster cut at d-es
nc: ccnzritute
to--arcs the
finances of GOA.'r..
0.



161
ANNEX II
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Social Action Program Project
Supervision Plan
The annual cycle of supervision was described in the "Implementation Chapter" of the Staff
Appraisal Report and again in the "Implementation Plan" annex to this report. This annex
presents a budget for this supervision, along with a few comments on the magnitude of the
requirements.
While the SAPP is a single project, it deals with four sectors in four provinces and four
federal territories along with several other components. This means the supervision of this
project inevitably will be more costly than a normal investment project. And, because of the
decentralized approach to policy formulation and monitoring, it also will be more costly to
supervise than an adjustment operation. Much of the supervision cost can be borne jointly with
that of on-going projects in the SAP sectors. The following budget presents the supervision cost
for both the on-going projects and the marginal costs of the SAP project supervision.
Basic Social Services: Cost of IDA Supervision in Staffweeks
Province/   Education  Education   Heatth  Health    RUSS      RUSS      TOTALS
Area     Project    SAP      Project     SAP      Project     SAP
Sindh         16         2        8          2         5          2        35
Punjab        32         2        8          2        - o -       2        46
Salochistan   16         2        8          2         5          2        35
NWFP        Appraisal    2        8         2         -a -        2        14
Federal
Territory     - o -      1       - o -       1         2          1         5
Federal
Ministry      - o -      I       - 0 -       1        -a-       -0-         2
Sub Total     64        10       32         10        12          9        137
In addition to these provincial/territory supervision requirements are the
following:
Population                                 6 sws
Procurement/disbursement                   2 sws
Participatory Development Fund/
Monitoring and Evaluation/
overall task supervision                12 sws
sub-total                              20 Sws
From table for SAP                        29 sws
Total--Additional for SAP Supervision  4



162
ANNEX III
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
List of Documents Consulted
1.   Towards a Social Action Program for Pakistan: Impediments to Progress and
Options for Reform - World Bank Interim Report (EMENA), October 1991
2.   Progress Report on Provincial Plans - Operationalizing the Social Action Program; Ms.
Shahnaz Wazir Ali, August 1992
3.   Social Action Program: Task Force Guidelines, December 1992 for:
(a) Education Sector
(b) Health Sector
(c) Population Sector
(d) Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Sector
4.   Inventory of Foreign Project Assistance in SAP Sectors, Consultants' Report, January
1993
5.   Social Action Program: Internal Concept Paper, January 1993
6.   SAP: Summary of Sectoral Policy Issues for the Islamabad Capital Territory
Administration (ICTA) - Dr. Moazam Mahmood, April 1993
7.   SAP Project: World Bank Project Preparation Mission National and Provincial
Aide-Memoires, March/April, 1993
8.   SAP Project: Government of Pakistan; Federal & Provincial Operational/Implementation
Plans, March/April, and September/October, 1993
9.   SAP Project: Government of Azad Jammu & Kashmir; Operational/Implementation
Plans, March/April, and September/October, 1993
10.  SAP Project: FATA, FANA and ICT's Operational/Implementation Plans, March/April,
and September/October, 1993
11.  SAP Project: Government of Pakistan, Operational/Implementation Plans for Population,
March/April, and September/October, 1993
12.  SAP Project: World Bank Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, September, 1993



163
13.  SAP Project: World Bank Appraisal Completion Mission Aide-Memoire, November, 1993
14.  SAP: Summary of Key Reforms; Federal & Provincial Governments, P&D Division, and
P&D Departments, May and September, 1993
15.  SAP: Summary of Key Reforms; GOAJK, GONWFP for FATA, GOPakistan for ICT,
and Northern Areas Administration for FANA, May & September, 1993
16.  SAP: Federal &  Provincial Eighth Five-Year Plans (1993-1998); P&D Division,
GOPakistan, and P&D Departments, GOProvinces, 1993
17.  SAP: Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993-1998) for Azad Jammu & Kashmir; GOAJK, February
1993
18.  SAP: Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993-1998) for Population; Ministry of Population Welfare,
GOPakistan, March 1993
19.  SAP: Memorandum  for the Pakistan Consortium, 1993-94; Planning Commission,
Government of Pakistan, April 1993
20.  SAP: Report to the Donors Meeting; Planning Conunission, Government of Pakistan,
September 1993
21.  Assessment of SAP Allocations in the Federal & Provincial Budgets, FY93-94: Shahid
Kardar, August 1993
22.  Federal & Provincial Budget Documents; Budget 1993-94, Government of Pakistan,
Provincial Governments, and Govt. of AJK
23.  Social Action Program: Two-Year Plan, 1993-1995; Government of Pakistan, 1993
24.  Federal Annual Plan, 1993-94 (Blue Book); Government of Pakistan, June 1993
25.  Review of Loan Disbursement and Withdrawal Procedures under SAP; World Bank
Consultants Report (A. F. Fergusons & Co.), October 1993
26.  SAP Project: Review of Local Procurement Procedures; World Bank Consultant's
Report (Navaid A. Nasri), October 1993
27.  SAP Project: Monitoring System in the Provinces; World Bank Consultant's Report (Dr.
Syed Akmal Hussain), October 1993
28.  Pakistan: Population Welfare Program Project - World Bank Project Preparation Mission
Aide-Memoire, May 1993



164
29.  Pakistan: World Bank SAP Project (Population) and Population Program Project Mission
Aide-Memoire, (Volumes I-Ill), November 1993
30.  Population Welfare Program (Federal Activity), 1993-1998; Ministry of Population
Welfare, Government of Pakistan, 1993
31.  Report of the Committee on Social Action Program; Government of Pakistan, undated.
32.  National Rural Support Program (NRSP); Briefing Notes, August 1993
33.  Improving the Efficiency & Effectiveness of Spending in the Social Sectors, and
Increasing Mobilization in the Provinces: A Study of the Canadian High Commission,
October 1993
34.  Prime Minister's Program for Family Planning & Primary Health Care: Paper by the
Health Division, GOPakistan, November 1993
35. World Bank's Health Sector Study: Key Concerns and Solutions, June 25, 1993
36.  Pakistan: Progress Under Economic Adjustment; World Bank Country Economic
Memorandum, March 1993
37.  Balanced Development: A Prescription for Social Action in Pakistan, UNDP Study,
September 1991
38.  Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Reports on:
(a) Pakistan: Population Welfare Program, April 1992
(b) Pakistan: Women in Development, April 1992
(c) Pakistan: Primary Health Care, April 1992
(d) Pakistan: Primary Education, April 1992
39.  Balochistan Primary Education; World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, March 1993
40.  Pakistan: Second Family Health Project; World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, September
1992
41.  Pakistan: Guidelines for Policy Agenda in Health Sector; World Bank Staff Appraisal
Report, August 1993
42.  Pakistan: Primary Health Care Project; World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, March 1993
43.  Operational Plans for 1993/94 dated February, 1994 for the following:
Punjab, Sindh, NWFP, Balochistan. AJK, FATA, FANA, ICT and Population Welfare



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23805R
JS3          Oi               44                 ZBEKISTAN         TAJIKISTAN'q                    TAJIKISTAN             4%
CHINA
TURKMENISTAN
AFGHANISTAN                                                                             f Co.*oI
134'                                                                                                                                   34*
Pes                         JAMMU A.
SLAMABAD        KASHMI
32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
/                                 l   h~~~~             ~          ~          ~      ~ ~~~~Queffo  @                      0
ISLAMIC
REP OF                                    2                                                        PAKISTAN
IRAN
=   ~ ~ ~ ~~~  ^     ,_f            { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Rivers
- ti D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Province Copitol
,_Jw   +                      $                                        @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ National Capital
26'                                                                                                       Province Boundaries          264
t        -~~~~~~~~~~~~.            \                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~ntemnolonrzl Boundaries
-   _              - -                                          _. Hyderabd 
Arabian Sea
24.                                                                                                          0 20 40 60 W 10   2t
Kr  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
42-   .            *'                qr         -     <                   7,2-              7,4               76
JULY 1993



