LI /      ji---  '7 3
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONY
RprtNo. P-6225-PAK
MEMIORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 145.2 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
MARCH 8, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
-    Report No: P-   6225 PAK
This document has a restricted distribution and Type: MOP
their official duties. Its contents may not oth,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 30.5 (January, 1994)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 3G
ACRONYMS USED
ADB         =     Asian Development Bank
AJK         =     Azad Jammu and Kashmir
GDP         =     Gross Domestic Product
GOB         =     Government of Balochistan
GONWFP   =        Government of North-West Frontier Province
GOP         =     Government of Pakistan
GOPUNJAB  =       Government of Punjab
GOS         =     Government of Sindh
IBRD        =     International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
IDA         =     International Development Association
MSU         =     Multi-Donor Support Unit for the SAP
NWFP        =     North-West Frontier Province
RWSS        =     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SAP         =     Social Action Program
SDR         =     Special Drawing Rights



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:            Four Provinces, Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and federally
administered areas and territories of Pakistan; and the
Federal Ministries of Education; Finance and Economic
Affairs; Health; Planning and Development; and Population
Welfare.
Amount:                   SDR 145.2 million (US$ 200.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 35 years maturity
Relending Terms:          Not applicable
Financing Plan:           For the three year period 1993/94 - 95/96
Sources of Funding for the SAP in FY93/94-95196
(Current US$ million)
Total        %
Government's internal resources                3,050        75.9
Existing/expected aid                            552        13.7
Program Assistance                               313
IDA (SAP Project)                              200         5.0
ADB                                            100         2.5
Government of the Netherlands                    13        0.3
Additional Assistance to be Mobilized            105         2.6
Total                                       4,020      100.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Interventions
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 12588-PAK
MAP:           IBRD Reference No. 23805R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 145.2 million, the equivalent of US$
200 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years to help finance Pakistan's Social
Action Program (SAP). Part I of the document discusses Pakistan's development problems and the
Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part 11 of the document describes the proposed credit.
1. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background
2.            Over the past decade and a half, Pakistan has experienced the fastest growth in the
South Asia region, with real GDP increasing on average by 5 to 6 percent per annum. This
performance reflects solid growth in agriculture and industry (especially cotton and textiles), strong
export growth, and access to substantial external financing. However, efforts to translate this
economic progress into social gains, have had only limited success. High population growth (about
3% per annum) has eroded half of the gains in per capita terms, and social indicators remain poor.
By the late 1980s, high fiscal deficits and continued slow progress in remedying shortfalls in social
and physical infrastructure, highlighted the need for major changes in economic and social policies, if
Pakistan was to ensure sustained growth and improve living conditions for its people over the longer
term. To achieve these goals, Pakistan embarked upon a comprehensive stuctural reform program in
1988 aimed primarily at: deregulating and liberalizing the economy to make it more competitive,
providing a stable macro-economic environment, and redressing weak social sector performance.
3.            The reform process remains in midstream. Substantial progress has been made in
opening up the economy, improving the environment for the private sector, and reducing the scope of
public sector activities through an ambitious privatization effort, all of which has helped to maintain
the economy's strong growth performance. More recently, progress is being made in improving social
sector performance through policy reforms and increased expenditures for basic social services
(education, health, population, and water supply and sanitation). On the other hand, the adjustment
effort has been weakened by poor public finance performance. The country has also experienced
considerable political turmoil and numerous changes in Government since starting the reform process.
These political constraints have slowed implementation of the reform program and contributed to the
country's weak fiscal performance. Nevertheless, the main thrust and principal objectives of the
adjustment program are shared by all major political groups and each successive Government has
continued the adjustment effort.
4.            Pakistan continues to grapple with difficult political, social and governance issues
which affect the pace and effectiveness of its economic development effort. Ethnic and domestic
regional rivalries have contributed to political instability and have delayed efforts to reach a consensus
on development policies and programs. Ethnic and tribal conflicts have also contributed to periodic
law and order problems, which have been exacerbated by drugs and corruption. There are also sharp
social and economic inequalities. These in turn have slowed implementation of development projects



- 2 -
and impacted on the location and size of new investment. Government efforts to increase resource
mobilization have long been undermined by the exemption of agriculture incomes from taxation, and
by a political environment which has condoned the non-rayment of taxes and other charges. Resource
constraints are further compounded by the high priority placed on maintaining a large military
establishment, given strained relations with India.
5.           During the past year, political developments became particularly intense, culminating
in the resignation of both President and Prime Minister in July 1993, their replacement by a non-
partisan caretaker Government headed by Prime Minister Moeen Qureshi, and the holding of Federal
and Provincial elections in early October 1993. The caretaker Government--in consultation will key
political groups--moved quickly to expand and accelerate on-going etonomic stabilization and
adjustment efforts and avert a potential financial crisis, marked by a fall in gross external reserves to
less than two weeks of imports. The program received strong international support, including approval
in mid-September of a US$250 million Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) by the Bank and a
SDR 265 million standby arrangement by the Fund. The renewed adjustment effort--with its focus on
strengthening public finances, privatization, and social sector reform--continues and builds upon the
reform initiatives already underway.
6.           The non-partisan nature of the Qureshi regime enabled it to focus more forcefully on
longstanding governance issues, including corruption, drugs, and law and order. The caretaker
Government published lists of major tax evaders, loan defaulters, and those delinquent on utility
payments, without regard to family name and rank in society. The Government also put in place an
expanded effort to curb drug trafficking and continued efforts to address law and order problems. The
regime's efforts were not intended to resolve these issues, but to demonstrate that they could be
addressed and thus facilitate further efforts along these lines Ly the elected Government.
7.           In the October elections, neither of the two main political groups (the PPP led by
Benazir Bhutto and the Muslim League group led by Nawaz Sharif) won an outright majority.
However, the PPP, with an advantage in seats, was able to form the Government with the support of
other small parties and independents. The new Government, headed by Prime Minister Benazir
Bhuno, took office on October 19, 1993. PPP-led coalitions also control both major provinces (Sindh
and Punjab) and participate in the Balochistan Government. The victory of the PPP candidate, Farooq
Leghari, in the Presidential elections in mid-November, has substantially increased prospects for a
more stable political environment. Nevertheless, political uncertainties remain, particularly since the
ruling coalition faces a strong opposition controlling a substantial bloc of votes in the National
Assembly. This could slow politically sensitive elements of the adjustment program.
8.           Since taking office, the Blhutto Government has moved ahead with implementation of
the reform program. It has stressed its commitment to key elements of the orogram, including
prudent macro-economic management, privatization (with due consideration given to improving
transparency and facilitating broader private ownership) and accelerating trade reform. The
Government has also emphasized human development objectives, including the need to strengthen
family planning activities. It has also implemented an agricultural wealth tax and is moving ahead
with the (provincial) taxation of agricultural income, even though much of the PPP's support comes
from landowners. Progress under the ongoing IMF standby has been satisfactory and the Government
has reached agreement with the IMF on its request for an ESAF/EFF arrangement. The three year
US$1.4 billion program was approved by the IMF Board on February 22, 1994. The Government of
Japan has also recently announced its decision to co-finance the PSAL in an amount of US$150
million. While these early efforts reveal a strong commitment to the adjustment program, there



- 3 -
remains a long and difficult policy reform agenda to implement, including sensitive issues which could
upset vested interests.
A. Recent Economic and Social Performance
Macro Economic Developments and Policy Reform
9.           Although growth fell sharply to 3% of GDP in FY93--owing mainly to the impact of
the devastating September 1992 floods and a cotton virus, overall GDP growth under the first phase of
the adjustment program (FY89-93) averaged 5.2% per annum. Real industrial output grew by about
7% p.a. and agriculture expanded by over 4% p.a. over the same period. The strong growth
performance was supported by a large expansion of exports (12% per annum).
10.          Substantial progress has been made in redefining the role of the public and private
sectors. An ambitious privatization program was launched in 1990, with 67 industrial sector units and
two of the four nationalized commercial banks privatized to date. Successful measures were also
taken to deregulate the economy. Investment licensing was virtually abolished, the exchange system
was substantially liberalized, and areas of investment previously closed to the private sector opened up
in power, banking and transport. Trade policy reform measures were also taken, including a reduction
in the maximum tariff from 225% to 92%, as the first phase in an on-going trade reform effort.. T he
financial sector underwent considerable reformn: an auction system for Government securities was
instituted in early 1991, banking regulation and supervision was strengthened, and the banking system
was expanded with the licensing of new banks.
11.          However, reforms aimed at improving the allocation and use of public expenditures,
which are needed to address shortages of human and economic infrastructure, fell short of
expectations. In the initial years of the adjustment program, development spending was kept down in
an effort to reduce the budget deficit. When an increase did take place, especially in FY93, it mainly
went into poorly conceived "prestige projects", leaving little room for the social sectors or other high
priority needs. With respect to current expenditures, allocations for operations and maintenance
continued to be inadequate. Some progress was achieved in controlling the growth of defense
expenditures and reducing subsidies, but interest payments increased.
12.          Implementation was weakest in the area of fiscal policy and few program targets were
realized. Since FY88, fiscal deficits exceeded 7% of GDP and public savings were negative in every
year but one. In FY93, the public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) reached a record high of
9.5% of GDP. Although the yield on direct taxes increased, tax concessions and exemptions coupled
with weak tax administration continued to undermine tax reform. As a result, budget revenues were
no higher as a proportion of GDP in FY92 than in FY88, despite annual discretionary tax measures.
Financing of the deficit added to inflationary pressures; inflation was 9.4% in FY93. Gross fixed
domestic investment and national savings have remained relatively low at about 18% of GDP and 14%
of GDP, respectively, during most of the adjustment period. Pakistan's balance of payments also
remained weak, as strong export growth was insufficient to compensate for the dL .erioration in the
services balance and the sharp decline in workers remittances. In FY93, the current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) deteriorated to 6% of GDP, with gross official reserves falling to US$435
million (equivalent to about 2 weeks of imports) as of end June 1993. Recent trends in key economic
indicators are summarized in Table 1.



- 4 -
13.            Based on preliminary estimates for the first half of FY94, and expectations for the rest
of the fiscal year, economic performance is expected to rebound from last year's setback. GDP
growth, which was initially projected to grow by 7.5% is now expected to grow between 5.5 and 6%.
Continuing problems with the cotton virus are expected to reduce cotton production by about 20%
below initial estimates, which is the main reason for the lower GDP projections. The balance of
payments is expected to improve from last ),;ar, but remains fragile. Although import growth slowed
during the first six months of the current fiscal year, major exports have also declined during the same
period, especially cotton and rice (although non-traditional manufacturing exports have increased).
Remittances are somewhat lower compared with last year. Gross foreign exchange reserves have
increased from their nadir of about I week of gross imports to about 5 weeks (about US$1 billion) as
of the end of December 1993, but remain inadequate. Efforts to strengthen fiscal performance are also
on track, with revenues increasing generally as programmed, and expenditures remaining under
control. Assuming these trends continue during the second part of the fiscal year, the Government
would be able to achieve a significant reduction in the fiscal deficit.
Table 1: Recent Trends in Key Economic Indicators
(In % unless otherwise indicated)
FY88        FY89        FY90       FY91       FY92      FY93
riDP Growth                      7.8         4.8          4.3        5.6        7.7      3.0
Export Growth (volume)           -4.2        12.8         8.9       21.7       17.9     -0.8
Import Growth (volume)          -2.0         3.9          4.2        0.4       11.4      9.6
Consumption Per Capita Growth    6.0         0.3          0.5       -0.4        4.6     -0.7
Inflation Rate                   6.3         10.4         6.0       13.0       9.1       9.4
Total Debt Outst. & Disb/GDP    36.0        39.1         44.0       46.2       46.5     46.8
Total Debt Serv/Exp. Goods & Services 22.9  22.8         24.3       22.2       22.5     24.6
Overall Fiscal Balance/GDP      -8.5        -7.7         -6.5       -8.7       -7.4     -9.5
Current Account Balance/GDP     -4.4         4.8         -4.7       4.3        -3.1     -6.0
Resource Balance/GDP            -8.1        -7.9         -7.8       -6.8       -6.5     -8.2
Gross InvestmentlGDP            18.5         18.9        18.9       19.0       18.6     20.4
Foreign                          155         177         200        230        562       455
Investment (US$ million)
Poverty Issues and Social Sector Performance
14.            Pakistan is a low income country with GNP per capita estimated at US$416 in 1992.
Although poverty levels vary considerably between regions, poor living conditions prevail for a large
part of the population. The poor quality of life is reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which
remain well below other countries at similar stages of development. Social indicators tend to be
substantially worse in rural areas than in urban areas and women and children are particularly
disadvantaged. Maternal and child mortality rates remain high, infectious and communicable diseases
are widespread, and malnutrition affects about half of Pakistan's children. Only about half of eligible
children are enrolled in primary school. About one-fourth of school age girls attend primary school
compared with 96% in low income countries. The literacy rate is about 30%, with female literacy
much lower, especially in rural areas.



15.          Improving social sector performance has long been cited as a key development
objective, but progress has been limited by weak political commitment, inadequate funding and poor
implementation capacity. This now appears to be changing. Government, business, and political
circles are more aware that human development is vital as both an objective and means of
development. They recognize the negative impact which inadequate development of Pakistan's human
resources will have on growth and on Pakistan's capacity to compete effectively in the world
economy. One result has been the Government's decision to develop a Social Action Program (SAP)
as the country's principal policy vehicle for expanding the coverage, quality and effectiveness of basic
social services (including primary education, primary health, family planning and rural water supply
and sanitation). The SAP--which the proposed Social Action Program Project supports--puts in place
policy and institutional measures to improve and better monitor performance, sets targets for increased
funding and serves as a mechanism for strengthening political commitment to social sector goals. The
SAP offers no instant solutions, but will help improve social indicators over time, assuming it
continues to receive the funding, implementation, and political support needed.
B. External Environment
16.           The external environment impacts on Pakistan's development and adjustment efforts
in a number of ways. Pakistan's export market is not well diversified and performance depends
heavily on international market conditions for coccon and cotton-based manufactured goods, which
make up 60% of total exports. Imports of oil and oil products are high and are expected to grow, thus
any sharp increase in international oil prices would have an immediate negative impact on the
economy. Increased reliance on private capital inflows to meet financing requirements also increases
vulnerability to changes in international interest rates. Despite successful deregulation and other
reforms to develop a more liberal private sector environment, Pakistan remains less attractive than
other countries in the region to foreign investment, owing in large part to its poor social and physical
infrastructure, but also to somewhat exaggerated perceptions of political uncertainty and governance
issues. In particular, there is insufficient recognition of the extent of commitment to liberalization
across all major political coalitions.
17.          Export Markets. The environment which Pakistani exporters face in the 1990s is
significantly more competitive than in the 1980s. On the supply side, Pakistan will face stiff
competition not only from countries already well established in cotton and cotton-based and other light
manufactured goods, but also from new entrants. Demand side factors will also make competition in
international markets keen. Pakistan's export market is expected to grow by 3.5% per year into the
21st ce.itury, which is only slightly above the 1980-1990 average and below the 4% effective export
market growth rate of Indonesia, a major trading competitor.
18.          As a result of the GATT agreement, the quantitative export constraints associated with
the Multi-Fiber Arrangement (MFA) will be phased out over a 10 year period beginning in 1995.
Product quotas will be gradually removed over time, with the bulk of them being eliminated towards
the end of the period. The effect on demand for Pakistani textiles and garments will depend on the
producer's ability to compete in both quality and price. Access to domestic raw cotton will continue
to give Pakistan a competitive advantage, but it will only be able to increase its market share if higher
levels of productivity and quality can be achieved. The global trade liberalization therefore needs to
be accompanied by improvements in the domestic incentive system to prepare Pakistani industry for
the more competitive world market.



19.           Terms of Trade. Projected international commodity price trends indicate that
Pakistan's terms of trade are likely to improve from the 1992 trough into the mid-1990s. On the
import side, prices for petroleum (a major import) are expected to average near present levels in
nominal terms. Prices for wheat (also a major import) are expected to increase slightly in nominal
terms in 1994, but decline thereafter. 01 the export side, rice prices continued to decline into 1993,
but are projected to turn upwards in 1994. In 1994, the price of cotton is expected to reverse its two-
year decline in nominal terms and continue to rise into 1995. In the second half of the decade, the
improvement in terms of trade is expected to slow down. Real cotton prices are expected to revert to
their declining trend over the longer termn, while higher petroleum prices increases are probable as the
supply picture tightens.
20.           Remittances. Workers remittances, which represented about 30% of export receipts in
FY91, are a major but declining source of foreign exchange. Approximately two-thirds of the
remittances come from oil producing countries and the remainder from OECD countries. Remittances
are not expected to decline any further in nominal termns, assuming a recovery in oil prices and
economic recovery in OECD countries. Remittances as a source of foreign exchange are expected to
continue to decline in relative terms over the medium termn. However, part of this could show up in
FCA deposits (see below).
21.           Capital Account and Foreign Currencv Deposits. Pakistan's financial vulnerability to
changes in international interest rates has increased recently. Traditionally, Pakistan's balance of
payments has been relatively protected against such changes since it relied heavily on official and
concessional sources of capital rather than private capital for meeting foreign exchange needs.
However, shifting priorities and budget constraints affecting major donors, are expected to limit
Pakistan's access to official and concessional sources in future. This will force Pakistan to rely more
heavily on private capital inflows to meet its financing requiremenits, thereby becoming more
vulnerable to changes in international capital market conditions. In addition, the sharp rise in Foreign
Currency Accounts (FCAs) over the past several years has increased the current account's sensitivity
to changes in international interest rates. FCAs are mostlv short-term and increase the volatility of the
balance of payments.
22.           Attractiveness to Foreign Investment. The deregulation and finanicial sector reforms
have improved the overall investment climate. However, there are still major constraints which limit
Pakistan's attractiveness as a location for foreign investment. The low level of education and skills,
and the severe constraints on basic infrastructure, especially power aind transport bottlenecks, and poor
urban infrastructure, discourage outside investors. Assuming continued progress in addressing a
number of these issues as part of the ongoing adjustment effort, and a less uncertain political
environment, Pakistan's investment climate should improve over the medium term. As prospects for
increased aid flows from official sources decline, Pakistan must increasingly rely on private flows to
meet its financing needs. These needs will have to be met both from increased domestic savings as
well as from higher non-debt creating flows (foreign direct and portfolio investment). Both will
require continued improvement in the policy environment, including strong macroeconomic and policy
reform performance.
23.           Drugs. Over the past decade, Pakistan has become increasingly active in the
international drug trade. Pakistan is a producer of opium (mainly in the tribal areas). Pakistani drug
lords also control the refining, transport and marketing of substantial quantities of heroin, utilizing
Pakistani opium and much larger quantities of opium produced in Afghanistan. Government efforts to
control narcotic trafficking and address increasingly serious problems of domestic drug use have



increased in recent years, but their impact has been limited. The problem is complicated by the
minimal control which the Government has over the tribal areas, the difficulties of effectively
controlling the country's long and isolated border with Afghanistan, and the enormous profitability of
drugs relative to other ways of earning a living in these areas. The drug trade has a negative effect on
Pakistan's international image and contributes to corruption and to other criminal activity.
24.          Summary Assessment. Although Pakistan remains vulnerable to external pressures
and risks, continued implementation of the adjustment program will help to reduce this vulnerability.
On the export side, Pakistan needs to improve competitiveness and increase efTiciency if it is to
capitalize on external market opportunities. This requires further actions to reduce domestic policy
and infrastructure bottlenecks, with a particular emphasis op maintaining macro-economic stability and
carrying out the trade reform program. Implementation ot the reform program should also improve
the environment for attracting private funding. While Pakistan will have to rely increasingly on
private financing as official sources of aid diminish, it can reduce its external vulnerability by
attracting more direct foreign investment and other non-debt creating investment. This will happen to
the extent that Pakistan is able to demonstrate to foreign inves.ors that its policy environment has
improved and that progress is being made in addressing governance concerns.
C. Pakistan's Development Objectives and Policies
Principal Development Issues
25.          Pakistan faces significant medium and longer term development challenges. Its poor
social indicators reflect long years of inadequate attention to basic social services. Rapid population
growth is putting an increasingly heavy burden on the economy. Even with an accelerated effort to
improve basic services, educate women, and strengthen family planning (just getting underway),
Pakistan's population could double in two more decades to about 240 million. The investment
required to catch up with existing large shortfalls in physical and social infrastructure and ,t se same
time cover the basic needs of this rapidly expanding population will be massive. The COu*L.., s heavy
dependence on cotton and cotton based manufactures as the major source of growth and export
earnings leave it highly vulnerable to external shocks. Diversification is essential to reduce this
vulnerability, strergthen the economy's competitiveness and improve growth prospects. The natural
resources base is coming under increasing pressure from rapid population growth, poor management of
water resources, and lack of attention to urban environmental issues. More attention to environmental
issues, especially improving management of Pakistan's vital irrigation and drainage system which
supports 90% of agriculture production is also essential to future growth. The level of investment and
savings in the economy remains far too low to meet requirements for sustained growth. As a
consequence, Pakistan compares unfavorably with other fast growing economies in Asia in terms of
physical infrastructure (basic transport, power and telecommunications) and even more so in human
resources development.
Government's Medium Term Strategy
26.           Since the late 1980s, Pakistan has developed a comprehensive policy reform
framework to address its development challenges. This policy framework has been broadly agreed by
all major political groups. The strategy concentrates on three broad development goals: accelerating
efforts to tackle poverty and human resource development issues; strengthening the enabling
environment for the private sector, and improving management of Pakistan's natural resources and the



environment. The Government's reform program is detailed in several major policy/operational
documents: the Fourth Policy Framework Paper, the Letter of Development Policy for the PSAL, the
Letter of Intent for the ESAF, the Social Action Program, and the National Conservation Strategy
(NCS).
27.            Now that Pakistan has a clearer idea of its development priorities and has a sound
broad strategy in place to tackle them, the main challenge is implementation. In some areas detailed
reforms are already in place or drawn up. For example, tax restructuring reforms are well developed
and preparatoty work for continued privatization is well advanced. In other areas, more work is
needed to develop specific reforms. One such area is agriculture, where efforts to develop the private
sector's role in management of the irrigation system are just getting started. Another area is the
environment. The NCS lays out the issues and suggested approach, but more work is needed to
develop the legislation and institutions to implement it. The Government's principal reform objectives
and ongoing reform initiatives are highlighted below.
28.          Human Resources Development. Developing Pakistan human resources is perhaps the
country's most difficult challenge. Building facilities and increasing access to basic services is one
part of this challenge. The other part is to ensure a decent quality standard for these services. All of
this requires a sustained national commitment over the medium and longer term. The Government's
Social Action Program to improve basic services is one important part of this effort. But the
performance of basic services also depends on the effectiveness of secondary and higher level services
and resource mobilization and financing for the social sectors as a whole. Thus efforts will also have
to focus on broader health and education reform to improve cost effectiveness at all levels of service.
A key element in the Government's program, is the effort to expand basic services for women and
girls, including policy and institutional cbanges to help overcome constraints on finding enough
women teachers and health care workers. The focus on female education and basic health care is also
key to effective family planning.
29.          Private Sector Development. Government efforts to strengthen the enabling
environment for the private sector focus on freeing the economy from remaining controls, continuing
trade and financial sector reforms, and accelerating improvements in basic infrastructure. Trade
reform has moved slowly up to now, but may now accelerate, with the new Government agreeing to
reduce the maximum tariff levels from 92 to 35 percent over three years. In the financial sector,
reforms focus on strengthening the regulatory environment, improving the legal framework for loan
recovery, increasing the share of credit going to the private sector, and supporting development of the
capital market. An improved environment for the private sector also requires substantial investment in
basic infrastructure, especially in energy and transport, including both new capital investment as well
as financing of rehabilitation and increased attention to operations and maintenance. Policy,
institutional, and infrastructure improvements are also needed to maintain strong agriculture growth
(especially strengthening management and maintenance of the irrigation system, improving weak
support services, and correcting inappropriate pricing and marketing policies).
30.          Changing Public and Private Sector Roles. Restructuring the roles of the public and
private sectors in the economy is another key reform objective. The goal is to get the public sector
out of tasks that can be more efficiently performed by the private sector, while facilitating a larger
private sector role in developing and operating basic infrastructure and social services. At the same
time, the Government must ensure that the restructured public sector is able to carry out the key tasks
or services that remain-such as improving social services--in an efficient and cost effective manner.
There is wide public support for privatization and the process has gone well up to now. However the



- 9 -
next phase will more difficult since many of the enterprises are large and may require resolving
complex financial and managerial issues. The next task is to complete the sale or liquidation of public
manufacturing enterprises previously put up for sale but not yet sold, sell the remaining two
nationalized banks, and initiate efforts to sell other financial institutions and other industries recently
approved for privatization. The privatization initiative also covers the sale of the telecommunications
company and partial privatization of the power sector (thermal plants and distribution). However,
given their complexity, privatization of these two enterprises can only be completed over time. The
Government must also establish appropriate regulatory institutions for private utilities to function
properly, a task which is only just getting underway.
31.           Public Finances. Improving public finances remains the centerpiece of the reform
effort. This task is complex and politically difficult to carry out. In essence, the Government's
challenge is to mobilize more revenues by reforming the structure of taxes and strengthening tax
administration to ensure that taxes and other charges are collected, and then utilize the revenues to
reduce the fiscal deficit and increase spending on priority development needs. On tax structure, the
Government's main objectives are to broaden the coverage of direct and indirect taxation and shift
taxation from international trade to domestic income and value added. To do this, the main focus is
on expanding the General Sales Tax, turning it into a true VAT, and implementing taxes on
agriculture income and wealth. On the expenditure side, the main aim is to improve the structure of
current expenditures by containing unproductive expenditures and increasing allocations for O&M.
The allocation for military spending was reduced by almost 1% of GDP in the FY94 budget and the
Government is committed to consider further reductions. However, progress will continue to be linked
to security considerations. The program also aims at increasing development spending as a share of
GDP, with an emphasis on increasing allocations for the social sectors and basic infrastructure.
However, money spent for development purposes must be utilized more effectively through careful
priority setting and improved implementation.
32.          Protecting the Environment. The Government's development agenda includes serious
environmental challenges. As a basically arid country heavily dependent on irrigated agriculture,
growth prospects are closely linked to making progress in watershed management, improving
management of the country's vital irrigation system (to reduce waterlogging and salinity) and
addressing serious urban pollution problems. These urban pollution problems, which irnclude untreated
industrial and other waste, contribute to air, water and marine pollution and raise serious public health
concerns. The Government's National Conservation Strategy was completed in 1992 with external
donor and NGO assistance. It provides a comprehensive analysis of environmental problems and lavs
out a broad strategy for tackling them. Effective implementation of the strategy requires strengthening
Government and private sector commitment to environmental goals, coupled with continued
development of environmental institutions, policies and enforcement mechanisms.
Prospects for Sustained Growth
33.            Pakistan's good growth record underscores the dynamism of its private sector, which
has been strengthened in recent years with the progress made in liberalizing the economy. There is
little reason to doubt the capacity for continued solid growth in the private sector in Pakistan.
However, growth prospects are closely linked to progress in strengthening macro-economic
performance, especially in the fiscal area, and in overcoming social, infrastructure, and governance
constraints. Economic projections under a strong adjustment scenario are shown in Table 2 below.
They are based on the Government's targets set out in the PFP for FY94-96 and assume successful
implementation of the adjustment program, which would reduce public sector borrowing requirements,



- 10 -
free scarce resources for increased private sector investment, aiud improve private sector efficiency, as
tax and regulatory distortions are reduced.
34.             The three-year program aims at achieving an annual GDP growth rate of 7.5%  in
FY94, followed by 6.5% in FYs 95 and 96. Although revised est;mates indicate that the FY94 growth
target will not be achieved, primarily because of a severe cotton virus, FY94 growth is still expected
to be excellent, ranging between 5.5% to 6%. Other targets over the three year period include
reducing the fiscal deficit to 4.3%; lowering the current account deficit to under 2% of GDP; and
increasing gross international reserves to about 10 week of imports. The PFP macro targets are
ambitious and require a sustained fiscal effort both to contain low priority expenditures and raise
revenues. The projections are conservative, and show only a very small increase in direct foreign
investment, reflecting continuing private sector concerns about the political and policy environment.
Hlowever, as discussed earlier, the potential is there for much higher investment.
Table 2: Macroeconomic Projections, FY94-96
FY94       FY95        FY96
GDP Growth Rate                            7.5         6.5        6.5
Exports Growth Rate (volume)               12.0        9.6        7.7
Import Growth Rates (volume)               -7.9        4.5        5.3
Total Consumption per Capita               -1 1        2.2        2.8
Inflation Rate                             8.1         6.5        5.5
Total Debt Outstanding & Disbursed/GDP     48.0       46.1       43.7
Total Debt Service/Export of Goods and Services   21.1  19.3     18.1
Overall Budget Deficit/GDP                 -6.7       -5.3       -4.3
Current Account of Balance of Payments/GDP  -3.0      -2.0       -1.7
Resource Balance/GDP                       -4.3       -3.3       -2.9
Gross Capital Formation/GDP                20.0       21.2       21.9
Direct Foreign Investment                  500        550         600
(US$ millions)
D. Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
Program Focus
35.             The Bank's assistance strategy in Pakistan focuses on two closely linked development
goals: poverty reduction and reducing constraints to sustained growth. To address the poverty
reduction objective, the Bank's approach highlights improving inadequate basic social services and so
improving weak social indicators. To support the growth objective, which will help with the income-
related aspects of poverty reduction, Bank efforts concentrate on: structural reforms, with an emphasis
on public finance issues and improving the enabling environment for the private sector; strengthening
inadequate basic infrastructure; reducing constraints on agriculture productivity; and protecting



- 11 -
Pakistan's natural resources base. Much of Bank assistance, not on3y in the social sectors, but also in
the urban and agricultural/natural resources sectors, has a direct impact on poverty reduction.
36.          The poverty reduction and growth objectives of the program are closely interlinked. A
more supportive enabling environment for the private sector is essential to mect growth objectives. It
also provides the basis for expanding income opportunities for the poor. Similarly, the priority given
to human resource development is important both to improve social indicators--an important objective
in itself--and to have the human capital needed to support sustained growth. The increased focus on
environmental concems is also directly linked to both poverty reduction and growth objectives.
Improving water supply and sanitation, reducing urban pollution and slowing and repairing degradation
of natural resources are needed for sustainable growth and for improving the quality of life and
income potential for the poor. Better management of public expenditures, with emphasis on helping
ensure increased funding for social and physical infrastructure, supports both poverty reduction and
growth objectives.
Lending Program Size and Composition
37.          World Bank and IDA assistance to Pakistan steadily increased over the last decade,
with average annual commitments growing from about US$225 million in the early 1980s to US$640
million during FY85-87. During the period FY88-91, the annual average commitment level increased
to about US$730 million, owing largely to substantial adjustment lending. In FY92, commitments fell
below US$400 million reflecting delays in reaching agreement on new adjustment lending. New
commitments in FY93 (US$428.9 million) also fell below programmed levels owing mainly to poor
fiscal performance which delayed agreement on adjustment lending, and slow progress in finalizing a
large power development loan.
38.          Planned base case IBRD/IDA lending for FY94-96 is estimated in the US$1.8 to 2.2
billion range, including IDA lending of US$750 to US$1.0 billion equivalent, with about 6 operations
programmed annually. IBRD lending at the base case level is linked to overall satisfactory, but less
than exemplary, progress in carrying out the adjustment effort. In particular, we would be looking at
how well fiscal reforms are doing, progress in increasing development spending in priority sectors, and
the status of efforts to increase private sector involvement and investment in key sectors such as
energy and irrigation and drainage. The actual level of lending in any given year would also depend
on the status of project preparation and other sectoral reforms. IDA lending is earmarked primarily
for projects and programs which address poverty concerns and which improve social sector
performance. Continued IDA lending at the currently programmed level assumes further progress in
improving social sector performance and addressing underlying poverty issues. If the Government is
able to make excellent progress in the adjustment program over the next one to two years, we would
consider moving into the high case, with the programmed lending level increasing to around US$2.7
billion on a three year basis.
39.          Should the adjustment effort and reform program, including essential social sector
reforms, slow down significantly or stall and there appear little immediate chance of putting it back on
track, IBRD lending would be reduced sharply, putting total lending into the low case, ie. with IBRD
and IDA lending of about US$400 million per annum. IDA lending would be maintained at
programmed levels in the low case scenario, unless, as noted above, satisfactory progress is not made
in addressing social sector and poverty concems.



- 12 -
40.           The contenit of our lendinig program has shifted substantially since the late 1980s.
Dturing the FY80-88 period, 70% of total Baank and IDA commitments were allocated to agriculture
(including irrigation) and infrastructture (mainly energy), wvith the remaining commitments divided
between industry (about 17%) and the social and urban sectors (about 6% each). Sinice FY88, the
composition of lending has shiited sharply to reflect the support for adjustinent and the mujch higher
priority being given to the social sectors. As a result, adjustment lendinig hias accounted for about 20%
of commitments, with lending to the social sectors increasing almost threefold to 16%. To make room
for these changes, commitments tor agriculture and infrastructure have been lower than in the past,
and lending for industry has fallen more sharply to about 5% of total lending during the last five
years.
41.           Over the next threce to lbur years, the share of lendinig to the social sectors is
programmed to increase even fuirther to over 20%. Lendinig to infrastructure is expected to absorb
between 35 to 40%, reflectinig the higlh capital and ioreign exchanige costs, especially in the power
sector. Another 25% is programmed for agricuilture (includinlg protection of natural resources), with
the remaining 10 to 15%  of new comm11itmeints planned for industry/finance and/or further adjustment
lending.
Priority Areas of Bank Assistance Strategy
42.           To achieve the twin goals of poverty reduction and sustained growth, the assistance
strategy and work program concentrate on four priority areas: strengthening social sector performance;
overcoming infrastructure constraints; improving agriculture productivity and strengthening
management of natural resources; and supporting adjustment (with emphasis on improving the
enabling environment for the private sector and improving management of public expenditures).
43.           Social Sectors. Our strategy in the social sectors emphasizes: (i) improving the quality
and coverage of basic social services; (ii) improving the overall efficiency of the health and education
sectors; and (iii) developing new approaches to expand local community participation in improving
social services. The present focus on strengthening basic services (including family planning), aims at
both improving social indicators and increasing productivity and earning capacity. Programs and
projects in the social sectors incorporate a heavy emphasis on women's issues, since improving the
status of women and strengthening their role in development is key to slowing population growth and
making progress in poverty reduction. An important component of the Bank's program in the social
sectors over the past two years has been to assist the Government in developing its Social Action
Program (SAP). Technical assistance for the SAP is provided through IDA lending and through a
multi-donor support unit set up at the Bank's Resident Mission. Bank financial support for the SAP is
significant. It includes both ongoing and planned projects to support improvements in the four basic
service areas (primary education, primary health, family planning and rural water supply and
sanitation) as well as the proposed sector investment operation to support the SAP as a whole. The
processing and timing of future assistance to the social sectors, will be closely tied to satisfactory
progress in meeting SAP expenditure targels and progress in carrying out policy/institutional reforms
to improve the quality and effectiveness of basic social services.
44.           In addition to the proposed SAP operation, future assistance to the social sectors
includes a project to strengthen primary education in NWFP, a project to strengthen the Government's
family planning activities, possible assistance for nutrition, and a project to support reforms in
secondary education. Since we already have ongoing primary education projects in the other three



- 13 -
provinces, the NWFP primary education project will complete a first rounld of support for primary
education covering all four provinces.
45.          Infrastructure. Pakistan's infrastructure development requirements exceed the
financing capacity of the public sector. For this reason, and to improve efficiency, an important goal
for the Bank is to assist Pakistan in developing a variety of meclhanisms to expand private sector
participation in and funding of infrastructure. These have included establislhment of a Private Sector
Energy Development Fund (PSEDF) as a vehicle for facilitating private sector energy projects; support
for joint venture arrangements in the oil and gas subsector; use of the Bank's guarantee authority
(ECO) to attract commercial bank financing in the energy sector (Hub project); and support for the
corporatization and eventual privatization of parts of the national pow er authority (WAPDA). Piogress
in developing these initiatives has been slower than expected. As a result, the expected large
expansion in private investment in energy has not yet materialized. In particular, finalization of the
Hub project, for which the Board approved an ECO arrangement in December 1991, has been delayed.
This has happened owing to the large number of parties involved, tne very large size of the project,
and the complexity of the operational and financial agrcements required, particularly in the context of
developing a new project financing concept. However, final arrangements are being made and the
project is now expected to reach financial closure before the end of FY94. Preparation of other
private sector power projects are well advanced, and once financial arrangements for Hub are
completed, private investment in power is expected to move ahead much faster.
46.           Lending for infrastructure in the next few years is expected to concentrate on support
to the energy sector. We expect to present a Private Sector Energy and Infrastructure Development
Fund project later this year. It would include additional financing for the Hub project and the next
eligible energy project; widen the coverage of the Fund from energy to infrastructure in general; and
support institutional improvements to encourage private investment in infrastructure. Other planned
operations in energy include: a large Power Development Project to finance a time-slice of WAPDA's
investment program and support WAPDA's privatization strategy; a major run-of-the river hydro
project (Ghazi Barotha); and continued support for restructuring institutions in the oil and gas
subsector and promoting private sector participation. The Power Development Project is well
advanced, but Board presentation has been delayed pending amendment of WAPDA's legal framework
to permit its corporatization and eventual partial privatization. Processing of the US$2.5 billion Ghazi
Barotha project, is expected to be supported in two phases, with an initial small lending operation to
support preliminary works, followed by a larger operation to support the main project. Bank financing
for Ghazi Barotha would be linked to environmental acceptability, agreement on a satisfactory
financing plan, including substantial support from other external donors, and progress in further
improving WAPDA's financial and operational performance. Future lending in the oil and gas
subsector would be linked to progress in strengthening sector institutions and increasing private sector
participation.
47.          In addition to assistance to the energy sector, we also plan to provide support to the
Government in restructuring the legal and institutional framework for the telecommunications sector to
facilitate privatization and provide limited support for other infrastructure development, including
transport and urban infrastructure. Lending for urban infrastructure would focus mainly on improving
urban services (especially water supply and sewage) and upgrading basic services for low income
groups.
48.           Agriculture and Natural Resources Management. In agriculture, the focus of our
policy dialogue is on reshaping public and private sector roles. For the public sector, the main



- 14 -
objectives are to improve capacity to efficiently carry out large public investment programs in
irrigation and drainage, strengthen support services in research and extension, and improve
management of watersheds and water resources. Bank efforts to support conservation and
environmental protection goals focus on: policy and legal reform; strengthening of Pakistan's
environmental institutions; and financing specific interventions to reduce environmental damage. With
respect to the private sector, recently completed economic and sector work (ESW) on irrigation and
drainage recommends a fundamental shift in the management of the irrigation and drainage system to
reduce the need for public financing and give the private sector a greater stake in the efficient
management of the system. The objective is to move towards a demand based system of allocating
water, involving commercialization of the system, with the private sector, including particularly fanner
organizations, to gradually take over responsibility for financing and managing operations and
maintenance of all irrigation systems at the canal command level and below. The public sector would
retain responsibility for operation of all main canals.
49.           The Bank's assistance program in agriculture/natural resources management in coming
years would emphasize sector investment and project lending to support: (i) development of national
programs to overcome irrigation and drainage problems and initiate the shift towards market oriented
private sector management of the irrigation system; (ii) further policy reforms in pricing, marketing
and institutional development; (iii) improvement of research and extension; and iv) improving natural
resources management in Baluchistan and forest management in the Punjab. The principal policy
trigger for high levels of lending in agriculture, especially for irrigation and drainage, would be linked
to continuing progress in improving public expenditure performnance (including better cost recovery
and improving implementation of the investment program) and progress in developing the private
sector's role in the sector, especially in terms of management of the irrigation and drainage system.
The Bank has also been working closely with the Government in developing a priority action plan for
implementing Pakistan's National Conservation Strategy, which forms the basis for Pakistan's
Environmental Action Plan. An Environmental Management Study planned for FY95 will develop a
more elaborate Bank strategy for addressing environmental issues, with lending to be linked to
institutional and policy goals.
s0.           Structural Adiustment. Bank support of Pakistan's ongoing adjustment effort focuses
on two main areas of reform: policy and institutional changes aimed at strengthening the enabling
environment for the private sector; and steps to improve management of public expenditures, as a key
element in strengthening macro-economic performance.
(i)    Continued efforts to complete Pakistan's financial sector reforms and revamp the
industrial incentive regime are needed to further improve the environment for private
sector development and increase Pakistan's attractiveness to foreign investment. A
proposed Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation project, currently under
preparation, would build on the policy reforms introduced under the earlier Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL). It would support further policy and institutional
reforms to strengthen financial institutions, and provide term resources to help meet
private sector financing needs. Industrial incentive policies and trade reform would be
taken up as part of the Bank's ongoing dialogue on adjustment issues. We are also
preparing a Private Sector Assessment, which would develop an agenda and
framework for further policy and institutional changes needed to strengthen private
sector goals and investment prospects.



- is -
(ii)   The Bank continues to work closely with the Government (in cooperation with the
IMF) in strengthening macro economic management. The focus of the Bank has been
on improving the allocation and utilization of public expenditures, with emphasis on
increasing the level of development spending, strengthening mechanisms for setting
expenditure priorities; ensuring adequate allocations for operations and maintenance;
and supporting steps to improve public administration and cost effectiveness. Over the
past four years, the Bank has undertaken an annual review of the draft investment
budget as input into the Government's budget preparation process, with emphasis on
reviewing priorities and the level of sectoral and specific project financing. We have
also increasingly focused on sector and subsector expenditure programming issues as
part of preparatory work for new lending operations and increasingly made use of
sector investment lending as a vehicle for reaching agreement on broader expenditure
needs. Planned lending and ESW work will continue the focus on public expenditure
issues. The recently approved Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) also focuses on
public expenditure issues. It supports Government efforts to: improve the prioritizing,
planning and control of development expenditures; reduce duplication and eliminate
public sector functions no longer required (as recommended by the Government's
Economy Commission); and move ahead with its privatization initiative. Further
adjustment lending would depend on progress in implementing the PSAL and
strengthening macro-economic performance.
Country Dialogue and Economic and Sector Work Program
51.          The Bank has been engaged in an active country dialogue on sector policy issues and
broad structural reforms to support its assistance strategy. Since the start of the reform program in the
late 1980s, this dialogue and supporting ESW has focused heavily on redefining the roles of the public
and private sectors (including privatization issues), public expenditure issues, and reformns in trade and
the financial sector. The Bank also continues to work closely with the Government and the IMF on
macro-economic issues. Bank policy discussions and related ESW have also covered agriculture sector
issues, especially institutional and policy constraints which undermine productivity and growth. More
recently the policy dialogue in this sector has focused on strengthening management of the country's
irrigation system, including the need for sharply expanding private sector participation in the operation
and maintenance of the system. Substantial analysis of social sector issues has also been carried out,
including work on population, women, poverty and health and education reform issues. This analysis
has supported a significal1t expansion of lending to the social sectors, and helped lay the policy and
institutional basis for the Government's Social Action Program.
52.          ESW priorities for the next few years reflect the broad themes of the country
assistance strategy. In addition to monitoring the Government's ongoing adjustment effort, the ESW
program will focus on: (i) public expenditure issues, including review of the public investment
program and federal/provincial fiscal issues; (ii) studies on private sector development issues, including
the private sector assessment, analysis of the private sector's role in the provision of basic
infrastructure, an energy options study, and work on policy and institutional issues in agriculture; (iii)
continued work on environmental issues to develop options for implementing the Government's
environmental strategy; and (iv) further analytical work on human resources development and poverty
issues, including a poverty assessment. The poverty assessment, currently under preparation, will
expand and update the initial poverty sector work completed in FY91. It will take an indepth look at
the poverty profile and develop key inputs for designing a comprehensive povertv reduction strategy.



- 16 -
53.          The ESW program also supports a variety of mechanisms to enhance the discussion
and dissemination of economic and sector work and expand Pakistani involvement and participation in
analytical work which the Bank is undertaking. A recent seminar organized by the Bank focused on
management of the irrigation system and how to expand private sector participation. Two other
workshops or seminars are planned in the near future. One will discuss poverty related issues and
research topics as part of the preparation work for the Poverty Assessment. The other will focus on
private sector issues to help lay the basis for the Private Sector Assessm,' it.
Portfolio Management
54.          As of December 31, 1993, the loan and credit portfolio consisted of 47 operations for
a total lending commitment of US$4.6 billion. The overall status of the portfolio has shown an
improving trend, as the number of problem projects has declined from 24% of the portfolio in FY92
to 14% in FY93. Disbursement performance declined slightly in FY93 given a decline in
disbursements under adjustment operations, with disbursements under investment operations continuing
to show improvement over the past few years. Nevertheless, implementation and disbursement
performance continues to suffer from systemic implementation constraints. Six operations remain in
the problem project category. Systemic implementation bottlenecks fall into three main categories:
financing and expenditure issues, namely inadequate counterpart funding, delays in release of funds,
and poor cost recovery and inadequate funding for operations and maintenance; institutional issues,
such as insufficient delegation of authority to project managers and too rapid turnover of key project
staff; and procedural bottlenecks, including delays in the appointment of project staff and consultants,
slow processing of project documentation by the Government, procurement constraints, and problems
with Special Accounts. These type of problems have affected all externally funded assistance
programs, with total committed but undisbursed aid totaling about US$9 billion.
55.          To address these issues, the Bank, in close coordination with other donors, has
increasingly emphasized implementation issues in its country dialogue. This emphasis has included
the holding of annual Country Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPR) starting in FY90, discussion of
implementation issues at successive meetings of the Pakistan Consortium, and a concerted effort to
clean up the portfolio by closing out or restructuring projects suffering long delays or facing major
problems. The FY93 CPPR reached agreement on a Plan of Action focused specifically on key
generic implementation issues, with emphasis on reducing project funding problems, improving project
management, reducing delays in effectiveness, and speeding up appointment of key staff and
consultants. This Action Plan is reviewed by the Resident Mission at regular intervals with the federal
and provincial governments. The Resident Mission has also taken on an enhanced role in project
supervision and follow-up of CPPR understandings, with local higher level staff assigned full
supervision responsibility for a number of projects to facilitate a more intensive supervision effort.
56.          As a result of these efforts, the Government has taken a number of steps to address
longer-term project management issues. A three-year rolling investment program has been prepared
and will be updated annually to help plan project financing requirements over the medium term.
Annual core investment budgets are being prepared to help ensure adequate allocations for priority
projects. If institutionalized, these initiatives should reduce counterpart funding problems, although
delayed release of funds is still likely given tight budget constraints. Provincial water charges have
been increased by 25% to provide increased funds for O&M, although budgetary allocations still
remain inadequate. Revised procedures for the operation of Special Accounts have been put into
effect to facilitate a more rapid flow of project funds. The Government is also taking steps to reduce
procurement delays. Standard Bidding Documents have been developed. In addition, the Government



- 17 -
is initiating a national procurement reform program to identify and develop specific legal and
administrative changes required for a more efficient and transparent procurement system throughout
Pakistan. The program is being supported through an IDF grant. A Project Management System is
being established in the Economic Affairs Division of the federal government and with provincial
governments to improve monitoring and support of project implementation management.  The
Government is also undertaking a review of its overall project portfolio to identify projects which no
longer fit its development priorities and which need to be restructured or cancelled.
57.          Increased Bank and Government attention to portfolio management issues is beginning
to pay off, but continued close attention to implementation issues is needed. To ensure continued
improvement and reduce future problems, the Bank's portfolio management strategy focuses on: (i)
improving quality upon entry, through enhanced borrower participation during preparation, upfront
agreement on policy and institutional reforms, and preparation of detailed implementation plans; (ii)
minimizing project start-up delays by advancing the Government's approval process for new projects
and holding project launch workshops to intensify Government commitment and minimize initial
implementation problems; and (iii) a continued emphasis on increasing the effectiveness of
supervision, including further intensive supervision of problem projects, tightened management of
closing dates, holding mid-term reviews, and an ac.;ivist approach to reformulating or redesigning
projects when necessary and without waiting for problems to reach crisis proportions. All problem
projects have time-bound action plans which are closely monitored.
58.          Beneficiary participation in project preparation and implementation has been
considerably expanded. Close work with community groups is a feature of the ongoing Balochistan
Primary Education Project. The Northern Pakistan Resources Management project incorporates a
strong community participation element, with the Agha Khan Rural Support Program providing
support in project design and in community organization. The proposed Punjab Forestry Project is
using local sociologists to work directly with villages to assess range and scrub forest rehabilitation
needs. Preparatory work for the Balochistan Minor Irrigation Project builds on and expands earlier
community participation efforts to ensure that there is full community involvement in the design and
implementation of local irrigation schemes. The proposed NWFP Primary Education Project makes
use of parental and community groups to work out solutions for improving primary education at the
local level, including education for girls and more local control over quality. The Pakistan Irrigation
and Drainage Review highlights the importance of beneficiary participation for sustainable irrigation
and drainage investments. Future operations in these subsectors would redefine the role of
beneficiaries, NGOs and the Government.
IFC
59.          Since 1958, IFC has made commitments in Pakistan totalling US$360.5 million, of
which US$252.8 million has been repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$107.6
million, US$90.6 million represents loans and US$17.0 million equity. Over the past few years, IFC
has been expanding its operations in Pakistan, reflecting progress in developing a more open and more
supportive environment for private sector led growth. Recent investments have focused on the general
manufacturing and textile sectors, where Pakistan enjoys a comparative advantage, and in capital
markets. In FY93, IFC investments almost quadrupled compared with FY92, with projects in
infrastructure, construction material, the value added end of the textile sector, and hotels and small
businesses through a bank credit line. IFC has become an important catalyst for private sector
financing in Pakistan and has developed a solid and well diversified pipeline of new projects. As joint
ventures with overseas technical partners will play a key role in generating increased value-added for



- 18 -
Pakistan, IFC investments will utilize this approach to the extent possible. In the near term,
investments under preparation would provide continued support for infrastructure (oil and gas and
private power generation) and aim at strengthening the capital market activity, with a focus on
developing more sophisticated financial institutions and a corporate bond market. Preparatory work
has been completed for the establishment of a credit rating agency, the provision of a credit line to six
leasing companies, and establishment of a full service investment bank. Preparatory efforts continue
with respect to developing commercial paper and convertible instruments. To support energy sector
development, IFC and the Bank are working with the Government to standardize criteria for setting up
private sector power projects, with two gas-based generation projects and one oil fired facility under
preparation. Work is also urderway to develop two oil and gas projects, one for gas compression in
the Sui gas field and the other a new company to provide the fuel oil pipeline for the Hub Power
project.
MIGA
60.          MIGA has been active in Pakistan since 1991, with coverage issued up to US$150
million, mainly for investments in banking, but also including a small number of investments in
manufacturing and telecommunications. MIGA is also exploring the possibility of providing
investment insurance services to Pakistanis seeking to invest abroad. MIGA has also been active in
investment promotion, including sponsorship of an Investment Promotion Conference in late 1991. In
addition, the Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) has completed a study of the foreign
investment environment and is assisting Pakistan in the development of its foreign investment
promotion institution.
Cooperation with Other Institutions
61.          The Bank maintains a close working relationship with all major bilateral and
multilateral development assistance programs in Pakistan. There are no major issues or disagreements
on lending and policy matters. Cooperation with the IMF has been extensive in the context of
adjustment program preparation and implementation, with Bank staff participating in all major Fund
missions. Cooperation with ADB and Japan, the other two largest providers of development assistance
to Pakistan, has also been excellent. Both ADB and Japan participate in Bank missions when
appropriate either for supervision or project preparation and Bank staff visit Manila and Tokyo for
coordination purposes. Close contact is also maintained with other assistance agencies, with the
Resident Mission taking the lead in exchanging information and ensuring adequate coordination
through periodic coordination meetings in Islamabad. Among the other aid agencies or bilateral
donors working closely with the Bank, including cofinanciers, are UNDP, the Netherlands, the UK,
Canada, and Germany. The Bank has also worked closely with USAID, although US assistance to
Pakistan will now end this year. Given the high priority which all donors give to improving social
sector performance, cooperation with other donors has been particularly intense during preparation of
the Government's Social Action Program. The Multi-donor Support Unit for the SAP is funded with
support of UNDP, ODA and Japan, with contributions from other donors being processed. Staff from
USAID, ADB, and the Netherlands have participated in preparation and appraisal of the proposed
Social Action Program Project.
62.          As chair of the Pakistan Consortium, the Bank is actively involved in reviewing the
macroeconomic and sectoral policy framework for donor assistance. The annual Consortium meeting
in Paris is an important means for continuing to secure high levels of external assistance and as a
vehicle for a two-way exchange on development prospects and problems. Over the past few years



- 19 -
several bilateral assistance programs have been curtailed, given changing priorities and policies as well
as competition from other countries and regions for ever tighter aid budgets. As a result aid
indications given at the Consortium have declined somewhat to around US$2.5 billion. In today's
more competitive aid environment, the Consortium remains a useful vehicle for putting forward
Pakistan's case, for coordinating and focusing the donor community on key policy issues, and for
communicating donor views to the Government.
External Financing Requirements
63.          To help achieve its development goals, Pakistan will require sustained external
support. During FY94-96, Pakistan's external financing needs are estimated at about US$4.0 billion
p.a., with gross disbursements from official source remaining constant at about US$2.5 billion per
annum excluding IMF purchases. Prospects for raising additional aid from official sources are not
favorable, although the large stock of committed but undisbursed official aid (US$9 billion at end
FY93) suggest that official disbursements should not decline over the medium-term. Therefore,
private capital sources, would be required on a significantly larger scale than in the past. As extemal
financing requirements expand over the medium to longer term, Pakistan will have to rely increasingly
on the international private capital markets, which underscores the importance of improving
creditworthiness.
Creditworthiness and IBRD Exposure Indicators
64.          Pakistan is not a severely indebted country, but by FY93 total civilian public and
publically guaranteed debt had increased to US$24.4 billion, or 46.8% of GDP. The debt service ratio
reached at about 23% of exports of goods and services in FY88, and has increased only marginally
since then to 24.6% of GDP in FY93, mainly as a result of strong export performance. Assuming
satisfactory progress under the adjustment program, creditworthiness would strengthen steadily, with
total debt as a percentage of GDP falling below 45%, and the debt service ratio falling below 20% by
FY96.
65.          Pakistan remains prompt in servicing IBRD and IDA debt. Nevertheless, the level of
new IBRD commitments will be linked closely to improvements in macroeconomic policies. IBRD
debt service indicators would increase in the short to medium term as ongoing loans are disbursed
more quickly and as loans disbursed in the late 1980s become due. Debt service to preferred creditors
as a ratio of total public debt service has increased to about 48%, and is expected to continue to
exceed guidelines. This reflects the fact that official bilateral flows have declined significantly, while
flows from multilateral institutions, especially the IMF, have risen significantly. IBRD debt service as
a share of exports will remain over 2.5% in the medium term, but decline to 2.3% by the end of the
decade.
E. Agenda for Board Consideration
66.          There is broad agreement between Pakistan and the Bank on the country's principal
development goals and the Bank's strategy and program. The Government has indicated that it would
like the Bank to move faster with additional fast disbursing support for the adjustment program, but
this would be reviewed in light of progress in implementing the PSAL and in strengthening
macroeconomic performance. The principal policy objectives and performance indicators are
summarized in the matrix on page 22.



- 20 -
67.           Implementation of the proposed lending program is linked to progress in carrying out
reforms in three basic areas:
(i)    Structural Reforms. Continued progress in strengthening macro-economic
performance, especially fiscal, and completing the structural reform agenda, remains
critical to strengthening creditworthiness and providing the policy environment for
private sector development. With a well developed reform program under
implementation, progress will depend heavily on maintaining the political support
needed for timely implementation of the refortn agenda. A key reform objective is
raising adequate resources to finance priority development programs and projects,
while improving the management and utilization of public resources. Satisfactory
progress in this area remains crucial to effective implementation of the Bank's
program. We expect public expenditure issues to continue to dominate the country
dialogue in the short a; I medium term. One result will be the continued heavy use of
sector investment operations as the principal lending vehicle for achieving broad
sector-wide expenditure and public sector management related reforms.
(ii)   Social Sector Agenda. Support for Government efforts to address poverty and human
resources development goals remains the highest priority for the Bank. However, the
Bank's ability to move ahead with the high level of support proposed depends heavily
on the effectiveness of Government efforts to strengthen sector institutions, increase
funding and improve overall absorptive capacity. This in turn depends heavily on
sustained and active political commitment to social sector goals. The Social Action
Program provides a strong framework for securing this political commitment as well as
needed funding and implementation reforms. The timing and coverage of additional
Bank support for the social sectors will be closely linked to progress in carrying out
the SAP.
(iii)   Public and Private Sector Roles. The speed and effectiveness of Government efforts to
redefine public and private sector roles in the economy and in economic development--
a key objective of the reform effort--will also have a major impact on the
implementation of the Bank's program. This redefinition of roles is a common thread
running through policy and institutional reform efforts in energy, transport, irrigation
and drainage, agriculture support services, and the environmental sector. Bank
lending in these sectors will emphasize increasing private sector participation in areas
where the private sector has a comparative advantage, strengthening public institutions
where public involvement is essential to achieve development goals, and development
of appropriate regulatory institutions to ensure cost effective private involvement,
especially in public utilities.
68.          Country progress in addressing Pakistan's development and adjustment challenges will
be monitored in various ways. With respect to macro-economic performance, key criteria include
fiscal, monetary, and balance of payments indicators. Satisfactory implementation of the public
investment program will be assessed in line with agreements reached tnder the PSAL. We will also
assess improvements in project implementation, in line with our CPPR Action Program, including the
rate of disbursement of project aid and progress in resolving generic implementation issues.
Strengthening the role of the private sector will be monitored by progress in carrying out trade and
financial sector reform and improving the incentive regime as well as by changes in the level



- 21 -
MAIN OBJECTIVES AND INSTRUMENTS OF COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
POLICY OBJECTIVES                       ACTION PRIORITIES                                 IBRD/IDA SUPPORT
Strengthen human resources    - Implement Social Action Program (SAP') to      - Proposed SAPl'roject.
development and slow             improve basic health. education, water supply  - IProject and sector investment lending in
population growth.               and population services. Emphasis on increasing  population, primary education, and nutrition.
access, with focus on women: and strengthening    - 'I'cchnical Assistance to SAP through Multi-Donor
implcmentation capacity, quality and cost        Support Jnit based in Resident Mission.
effectiveness through institutional/policy refonns.   - tSW. including Poverty Assessment (FY95) to
refine Bank S ategy.
Expedite public and private   - Ixpand investment in basic infrastructure.        P I'roposed Power Sector Development Project to
sector efforts to meet basic    especially power, with increased emphasis on      support WAPDA restructuring/privatization.
infrastructuire requirements.    demand side management and further            - Completion of 1IUB Power project financing/
rationalization of pricing policies.             ECO.
Inerease private sector participation in financing    - Proposed replenishment of Private Sector Energy
and implementing projects in basic infrastructure.  Development Fund and expansion to include other
- Follow through with privatization of power and    infrastructure.
telecommunications including establishing     - Ghazi Barotha Hydro Power project.
regulatory frameworks.                        - Punjab Urban Environment Project.
- Further develop mechanisms to facilitate private    - Karachi Water Loss Prevention project.
sector investment in basic infrastructure.
- Improve urban infrastructure, including
upgrading basic services for low income groups.
Improve management of         - Develop private sector, including farmer       - ESW on management ofin igation and drainage;
natural resources and            organization, role in financing, operation and   support for enhanced private sector role.
strengthen agriculture           maintenance of irrigation system.             - Sector investment lending in drainage and
productivity.                 - Strengthen research and extension institutions.   irrigation.
- Strengthen public sector capacity to cany out  - Baluchistan Natural Resource Conservation
large investments in irrigation and drainage.    Project (FY94); Proposed Punjab Forestry Project
- Develop federal/provincial capacitv to monitor  - Lending for agriculture support services.
and enforce environmental regulations.        - Environmental Management Study (FY95).
- Support implementation of National
Conservation Strategy.
Strengthen enabling           - Strengthen macroeconomic management.           - Implementation of PSAL supported program.
environment for Private       - Follow through on privatization of industry.    - On-going policy dialogue in coordination with
Sector.                       - Carry out trade reform as spelled out in PFP.     IMF to strengthen macro framework and overall
- Further financialbanking sector reforms.         investment climate.
- Further reduce bureaucratic and regulatory     - Proposed Financial Sector Deepening and
bottlenecks to private investment.               Intermediation Project
- Private Sector Assessment (FY95) and sector
work in trade and industry.
Improve allocation of public  - Prepare annual core investment program.        - Monitoring ofpublic investment program as part
expenditures in linc with     - UJpdate 3-year rolling investment program.        of PSAL.
development priorities.       - Contain non-productive expenditures, including  - ESW on public expenditure issues (including
defense.                                         annual review of investment budget).
- Increase allocations for priority sectors, including   - Sector investment operations in social,
the social sectors, operations and maintenance.  irrigation/drainage and power sectors, with focus
on expenditure programming.



- 22 -
of domestic and foreign private sector investment. Progress in privatization will be measured using
the Government's targets for privatization as also agreed in connection with the PSAL.
69.          With respect to poverty reduction, changes in social indicators will take time to
materialize. Progress will be monitored through implementation of the Social Action Program, which
will include an institutional arrangement for monitoring, with targets and indicators spelled out in
advance. More specifically, progress will be monitored in terms of Government spending on health,
education and family planning as well as improvement in specific indicators such as enrollment ratios,
especially for females. Progress in health and education would also be monitored in respect to quality
of service, including policy and other changes to increase staff effectiveness and adequate provision of
material and supplies. Progress in meeting environmental challenges will be measured in terms of
developing an adequate legal framework, particularly the establishment of environmental quality
standards; implementing environmental assessment procedures for new investment; and effective
enforcement. Over the medium term progress will be measured by improvements in air and water
quality and the reduction in the area of waterlogged and saline soils.
II. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Background
70.          The Social Action Program (SAP) is the name Pakistan has given to its overall efforts
to improve basic social services over the five year period 1993/94-1997/98. The Government's Social
Action Program, and the proposed SAP Project which would support it, address Pakistan's relative
weakness in basic social services, which has become a major shortcoming in, and constraint on,
Pakistan's development accomplishments. Although health indicators and educational attainments have
improved over the past twenty years, they generally remain below expected levels for countries of
comparable income, especially for women and girls. For instance, roughly half of all school-age
children in Pakistan and about 40% of the girls are enrolled in primary school. Yet the South Asia
region as a whole has made faster progress: comparable figures for neighboring India are 97% for all
children and 83% for girls, while those for Bangladesh are 73% for all children and 68% for girls. For
low-income countries as a whole, these averages approach 100%.' Because of high female mortality,
the female proportion of Pakistan's population is among the lowest in the world. Not surprisingly,
Pakistan's total fertility rate is 5.7 compared with 3.8 for low-income countries as a whole and 3.9 for
India. As a result, its population includes a relatively high proportion of dependent children, whose
needs--if met--would absorb substantial resources.
Project Objectives
71.          The Government of Pakistan, like IDA and many donors, believes that a broad-based
effort to improve the most basic social services is now needed. It has therefore embarked on a Social
1/    Gross Enrollment Rates at the primary level are dcfined to be the numb er of children of all
ages enrolled in primary school divided by the population of children of primary-school age.
For some countries the GER may exceed 100% because some pupils are younger or older than
the country's standard primary age.



- 23 -
Action Program to improve and expand primary education, primary health care, family planning, and
rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS). These investments in basic social services will boost
economic productivity, reduce poverty, and promote smaller, healthier, and better educated families.
Returns on investments that reach women will be especially high. The proposed SAP Project would
strengthen the implementation, design, and level of effort of Pakistan's entire Social Action Program.
Monitorable targets for achievement for each of the SAP sectors have been agreed. To help ensure that
gains achieved will be sustainable, the SAP Project will help build and institutionalize political
commitment. establish adequate financing for recurrent as well as development costs, and encourage
greater community and user responsibility for basic social services.
Project Description
72.           The proposed SAP Project would provide a multi-sector investment and maintenance
credit to strengthen implementation of Pakistan's Social Action Program (SAP). The Project would
reinforce existing social sector programs and projects, whether or not aid-financed, by focusing on a
few core problems that impair performance throughout the social sectors. It would help finance the
first three years (1993/94-1995/96) of the Social Action Program. For planning and monitoring, the
SAP is divided into constituent sub-programs. The main ones cover three basic social services --
primary education, primary health care, or rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) -- in each of
Pakistan's four provinces plus the national population program. Others cover selected federally
administered basic health and education programs, and basic services in areas directly administered by
the federal Government. The Project would also provide funds to improve monitoring and management
and to help non-government organizations promote community involvement in basic social services.
Project funds would be needed to finance a part of all expenses incurred to deliver the target services,
including salaries, operating expenses, supplies, goods, civil works and maintenance expenses.
73.           The SAP Project would take a broad-based, "umbrella" approach to complement
existing programs and more narrowly focused projects because many of Pakistan's problems in the
social services are not sector-specific but endemic--common across services and areas of the country.
These problems fall into three categories: (I) implementation of social services has been deficient; (2)
design of social services has been flawed; and (3) levels of effort in social services have been too low.
Underlying all three sets of problems are political considerations--insufficient political commitment at
provincial and national levels and inappropriate political interference, particularly at local levels. Weak
institutions in the social sectors reflect past political neglect. Until now, sector- and province-specific
government programs and donor projects have addressed these core problems piecemeal, often with
disappointing results. This Project would instead simplify the process of policy reform by cutting
across sectors and provinces to identify a few core problems that impede the social sectors as a whole.
It would then concentrate attention, resources, and political will on these core problems, thereby
improving the "implementation climate" for all programs and projects. The proposed Project would
thus complement and undergird other IDA or donor projects--present or future--that focus more
narrowly but in greater depth on one sector in one or two provinces.
Improving Implementation
74.           Existing basic social services tend to operate inefficiently. In particular, they suffer
from poor planning and budgeting techniques, bureaucratic delays in release and expenditure of
allocated funds, recruitment bans and excessive staff turnover, over-centralized management of
dispersed front-line services, and insufficient beneficiary participation. As a result, sector-specific,
province-specific projects often disburse more slowly and achieve less than planned. The SAP Project



- 24 -
will complement such projects by addressing implementation problems common to all the basic social
services. Solutions to many of the implementation problems must involve not just the sectoral
ministries, but also the finance and planning ministries at provincial and federal levels. Preparation for
the SAP Project has already led to up-front actions that relieve implementation problems, thereby
strengthening existing projects. For instance, in contrast to history, the Government is now protecting
social-sector budgets in its new fiscal retrenchment program and has instituted new mechanisms to
release social sector funds on time to line agencies. It has hired thousands more teachers and health
workers despite overall bans on recruitment.
Improving Program Design
75.          Social services in Pakistan ought to focus more intensively and consistently on basic or
primary levels of social services, and the basic services ought to focus more on quality and on access
for the poor, especially for women and girls. The Social Action Program will shift the focus to basic
services. The SAP Project would lay particular emphasis on quality and access, by increasing attention
to inputs like books and medicines and by encouraging Pakistan to adopt approaches that have worked
in other countries. Some progress has already occurred, for instance in dusigning basic services to
involve beneficiaries more and to include more female providers to serve other women and girls. The
SAP Project will also highlight sector-specific design issues, such as including more family planning
in health services. It thus reinforces sector-specific projects.
Improving Level of Effort
76.          As implementation capacity expands and design improves, Government expenditure on
basic social services should increase. The SAP Project builds visibility for the social services as a
whole and focuses attention on this central level-of-effort issue. The Project has already helped
Government develop plans that are a "reach", but realistic. Total expenditures on the basic social
services will rise from about 1.7% of GDP in 1991/92 to about 2.6% in 1997/98 -- a substantial
increase, though still well short of what many low-income countries spend. The Government's share of
incremental costs will rise from about 46% in 1993/94 to 59% in 1995/96 and about 69% in 1997/98.
Building Political Will
77.          One important underlying cause of all the weaknesses in Pakistan's basic social
services had been lack of political will to change. The SAP Project has helped to build political
commitment, by its very scope and by its reliance on annual assessments to determine funding.
Pakistan's three recent Governments all gave or give high priority to the SAP and have taken
important steps to fund and implement it.
Implementation of the Project
78.          The SAP Project emphasizes a continuing policy dialogue, phased funding, and
competition for resources among provinces and sectors based on performance. The SAP Project has
been appraised for 1993/94-1995/96, with a focus on 1993/94 because the Government prepares
detailed operational plans year by year. Disbursements can be made to any sub-program only after the
Bank and the Government reach agreement on each year's operational plans (including budgets and
implementation plans) through annual assessments. In effect, sub-programs compete for funds. The
annual budgets cover both development (investment) budgets and recurrent budgets. The
implementation plans cover policies, identifying problems and specifying prior actions and measurable



- 25 -
targets for progress in each year. The assessment therefore amounts to an expenditure review,
addressing performance of programs and of projects, policies, and proposed expenditure programs and
drawing on IDA's and other donors' experience from other social-sector projects that treat specific
sectors in more detail. Once agreement is reached, IDA expects to reimburse a share of the
expenditures for that year, subject to the normal understanding that performance will be adequate. If
performance of a sub-program proves weak, failure to spend may reduce the current year's
disbursements. The next year's agreement will reflect performance on programs and on projects
financed by donors as well as new plans (again with prior actions and targets). Proceeding "bottom
up", IDA will help the Government determine core problems impeding progress in social services as a
whole and focus on them. The feasibility of the annual-agreement process was demonstrated during
appraisal, when Government and IDA agreed on the 1993/94 program, including actions on policy and
budgets that have been taken.
79.          The SAP also includes US$6 million to strengthen the Government's monitoring and
management capacity and conduct studies to improve service effectiveness. Finally, US$5 million will
be allocated as a first step to help non-Government organizations promote innovation in basic service
delivery and active community involvement in services funded by the Government under SAP. An
additional $5 million will be made available if the program warrants. A Multidonor Support Unit
(MSU) managed by the World Bank has been established to help the Government develop the SAP
and to coordinate among donors. The Secretary of Planning will carry the main responsibility for
implementing the SAP -- and the SAP Project -- at the federal level, assisted by a SAP Secretariat.
The Chairman, Planning and Development, (P&D), and the Additional Chief Secretaries (P&D) will
be similarly responsible at the provincial level, also assisted by SAP Cells to help with implementation
and coordination. The Secretaries of Economic Affairs and Finance are also involved and committed.
The Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission will hold quarterly reviews of the SAP.
Preliminary Accomplishments
80.          During the appraisal of the SAP project, the parties initialed the first annual
agreement, for 1993/94. Because performance is good and the fiscal year is more than half over,
retroactive financing of up to 20% is proposed. During the policy dialogue leading to this first annual
agreement, reinforced by the dialogue for related operations, Pakistan has already moved in several
difficult areas. Steps taken include:
(a) Improvements in Level of Effort and Implementation
*     In every province, far better annual operational plans have been developed for primary
education, health, and RWSS, with higher levels of effort and greater realism. Similar
progress has been made on the national population program.
*     Total Government budgets for basic social services are up sharply. For instance, the
1993/94 population budget will exceed the previous year's by over 40%. Expenditures
have been substantially increased for inputs, such as books and medicines, critical to
improve quality of services.
*     The Government has moved to resolve the long-standing problem of funding delays: it
has instituted at both federal and provincial levels new mechanisms to protect SAP
funds and ensure their timely release to the provinces.



- 26 -
Steps have been taken to reduce political interference in the location of schools. All
provinces have agreed that sites for new schools will be selected according to where
the children are, not where local leaders may prefer to build. Three of the four
provinces have already submitted lists of sites selected according to the new criteria.
*      Monitoring and evaluation have been strengthened. All provinces have established MIS
systems for education, with plans for expansion down to district level.
(b) Improvements in Program Design
o     To improve female access, basic service programs are being designed to recruit, train,
and post more women teachers and health workers in rural areas. Several provinces
have relaxed age and qualification requirements for women and have decided to
provide incentive payments for women who wvork in rural areas. In the Punjab, all new
schools will 'iave female/male teachers in the ratio 70/30. Provinces are also promoting
women to more senior posts for the first time.
Steps have been taken to increase school enrollment of girls. Historically girls' and
boys' schools have been separate, and often girls had no school. Now all provinces are
shifting towards co-education or, where resistance to co-education remains, are giving
priority to construction of girls' schools (which boys may be allowed to attend).
*      5Communities--and particularly parents--are becoming more involved in social services,
especially in education and RWSS. In Balochistan, for instance, parents' committees
have been formed to help oversee public schools, and this year some 100 communities
without schools have built their own and found women to teach--women who will be
trained and paid by Government. Throughout the country, more communities are
participating in RWSS programs. Several provinces and areas are preparing policies,
reorganizing Government agencies, and operating pilot projects to shift responsibility
for operation and maintenance of RWSS to communities. Communities have set up
f"users' committees" to work with Government and NGOs to develop more
participatory approaches. Greatest progress has been made in Balochistan, Sindh, and
most federal areas. In Balochistan, for example, under a new policy, new RWSS
programs will involve village organizations and town water associations; communities
will cover operation and maintenance costs of simple rural schemes, with a subsidy to
poor communities; user charges will be set for more complex rural schemes and for
towns.
*      Family planning services are being expanded rapidly. All provinces have agreed to
train basic health workers in family planning, and the training is under way. Some 800
health facilities in the Punjab now have workers trained in family planning. To
complement these efforts and build demand for family planning, the Ministry for
Population Welfare is instituting a community-based outreach program meant to
provide at least one village-level worker for each of Pakistan's 12,000 villages by mid-
1997. Recruitment for the first 3,000 villages is to be completed by July 1994. Finally,
to promote efficiency as the population program expands, the MPW has decided to
decentralize management to the provinces.



- 27 -
(c) Stronger Political Comnmitment
The SAP has attracted political commitment and public attention to social services.
Pakistan's three recent Governments all gave, and give, high priority to the SAP. To
fulfill the po:ential of the SAP, this level of commitment must be sustained for the
next several years. The SAP Project is already helping to accomplish this, by its very
scope, by its reliance on a continuing policy dialogue and annual agreements to
determine funding, and by its emphasis on cooperation among donors.
Project Costs, Financing and Sustainability
81.          The SAP Project, covering the first three years of the five-year SAP will cost about $4
billion (development and recurrent costs), including increments of about $1.5 billion over comparable
earlier expenditures. The Government expects to contribute about $3 billion of the total (about 76%)
and to use $552 million more in existing or expected donor assistance. It seeks funding for the
remaining gap of $418 million. IDA has reached agreement with the Government on the framework of
this three-year program . The SAP Project would provide $200 million. 5% of the total cost and about
48% of the gap. The Government is exploring contributions from other donors, with whom IDA is
cooperating closely; if performance continues to be good, several donors have indicated willingness to
consider additional contributions. The financing for the first two years is obtained. IDA is working
with other donors, (including ADB and the Netherlands) and the Government to close any remaining
gap. The three-year SAP program should be seen, however, in the context of the five-year SAP. The
full program will cost about $7.7 billion, including increments of about $3.4 billion over comparable
earlier expenditures. The Government expects to contribute $5.9 billion and to use $1.1 billion more in
existing or expected donor assistance. It seeks funding for a total gap of $0.7 billion for the five-year
period. The Government has undertaken to increase its share of incremental cost financing from 46%
in 1993/94 to 59% in 1995/96 and 69% in 1997/98, which IDA judges to be well within feasible
limits even under a disciplined macroeconomic program. Increased beneficiary participation will also
gradually promote cost recovery and so ease the financial burden on the Government. The GOP will
make the funds required to implement the SAP available in a timely manner to the implementing
agencies; it will protect these funds from diversion to lower priority uses.
Retroactive Financing
82.          The SAP program as agreed with the Government started on July 1, 1993. As
performance has been good so far, retroactive financing of up to $40 million (20% of the IDA credit)
is proposed to reimburse expenditure incurred after July 1, 1993 (but no more than 12 months before
credit signing) on goods and services, including salaries and operating expenses.
Specific Agreements with the Government
83.          During negotiations, the federal, provincial and AJK governments provided signed
letters conveying the 1993/94 operational plans of the governments participating in the SAP and
committing them to carry out the programs as agreed. The Governments provided assurances on the
following:
(a)    The federal and provincial governments participating in the SAP will prepare annual
operational plans setting forth, inter alia, proposed subprograms to be carried out in
each successive year, will agree with IDA each year on their expenditure and reform



- 28 -
content, and will participate in an annual assessment of each past year's
implementation of the SAP and each successive year's plans.
(b)    The Federal and Provincial Governments will carry out quarterly reviews of the
implementation of the SAP and furnish IDA with progress reports: and will participate
with IDA and other donors in an annual review of each past year's performance as
part of the process of reaching agreement in each successive year.
(c)    To protect the priority of basic social services in the SAP sectors, the GOP and the
governments of AJK, the provinces and the federal territories will not ban recruitment
of staff to deliver these services.
(d)    The Government will pass on to selected NGOs grants on terms or conditions agreed
with IDA.
(e)    The Government also reached agreement that the overall level of spending on the SAP
will rise to the levels agreed with IDA within the framework of the SAP (Tables 3.1,
3.2 and 3.3); in no case will these levels be allowed to fall below 2.05% of GDP in
1993/94, 2.15% in 1994/95 and 2.3% in 1995/96; and that within that total
expenditure, that the Government's own contribution will rise to agreed target levels
(Table 3.2 and 3.3): 1.6% of GDP in 1993/94, 1.7% of GDP in 1994/95 and 1.8% of
GDP in 1995/96 (para3.7).
Lessons From Experience
84.          The SAP Project is innovative but reflects experience. The first lesson is that most
earlier donor projects have focused on key needs in a given sector but were often frustrated by the
broader implementation problems described earlier. Recent sector-level operations have therefore
tended to move away from partial approaches toward strengthening programs at the provincial level as
a whole, and those operations have worked better. The SAP Project takes the program approach a step
further. It supports programs in all four basic services as a whole, province by province, and aims at
improving the overall implementation environment as well as addressing important sector-level issues.
It provides a framework for reaching consensus within Government and among donors on core reforms
affecting the whole program as well as its individual components. Once carried out, the reformns
introduced under the SAP Project should increase the Government's implementation capacity in the
social sectors, enabling it to comply more readily with legal covenants under IDA projects and
speeding implementation of all social-sector projects.
85.          Second, other projects have sometimes had disappointing results because they did not
focus sufficiently on basic services. The SAP Project focuses deliberately on the basics.
86.          Third, projects have run into difficulty when they were too complex. The SAP Project
is in one sense complex because it supports all four sectors in the different provinces and areas. It
simplifies, however, by providing one framework for annual assessments, by focusing annually on key
reforms that are timely and feasible, and by adjusting to promote other reforms as the SAP proceeds.
It manages the remaining complexity by subdividing the work into more tractab'e sub-programs that
are sector-specific and province-specific. It also strengthens the monitoring and implementation
capacity of the federal and provincial governments. Nonetheless, complexity remains a concern.



- 29 -
87.          Fourth, some projects have had difficulty for lack of Government follow-through on
commitments to carry out agreed reforms. As discussed in the next section, the SAP project is
designed to require and strengthen such follow-through, but Government commitment also remains a
concern.
Risks
88.          The main risk is that so large and comprehensive a Project could over-strain the
management capacities of the Government and the supervisory resources of IDA. The SAP and the
Project address this risk in five ways. First, the Project focuses on a few core issues. Second, the cell
structure means that work done through the SAP and the Project will reinforce GOP and donor work
on province- and sector-specific activities, and vice versa. For instance, IDA can send dual-purpose
supervisory missions. Third, the SAP effort is building the Government's capacity to plan, budget, and
implement. Fourth, the Multi-donor Support Unit (MSU) is already assisting the Government with the
SAP and improving coordination and monitoring. Finally, the Project has a carefully designed
implementation plan.
89.          A second risk is that the intended reforms will not be achieved or will be seriously
delaved. This risk is addressed by unusually intensive monitoring through the MSU and by the phased
annual release of funds based on annual agreements reflecting performance and identifying prior
actions and monitorable targets. Moreover, the Project draws on lessons from past and existing
projects supported by IDA and other donors, who were closely involved in Project preparations.
90.          A third risk is that the SAP Project will undermine existing donor- and IDA-supported
projects by providing a softer option with weaker conditionality than those projects require. This risk
is addressed by treating existing or future aid as "above the line" when defining the annual funding
gap that the SAP Project will help fill, thus removing the temptation to substitute Project funds for
other aid. The risk is also addressed by including performance of other aid projects in annual
assessments of programs. The MSU promotes donor coordination that also helps prevent such
problems.
91.          A fourth risk is that Government commitment will weaken. This risk too is addressed
by phased funding and by insistence on annual agreements, with monitorable targets. It is also
addressed by the broad scope and multi-ministerial team-building emphasis of the Project. And it is
addressed by giving oversight responsibilities to coordinating committees that include the highest
levels of the federal and provincial governments.
92.          A fifth risk is that the SAP, and particularly its recurrent costs, will be financially
unsustainable because it depends too heavily on donors. The Project would finance recurrent as well as
development costs because recurrent costs are the main costs of basic social services. These costs are
properly investments in human capital, in any event. Moreover, the Government will assume a rising
share of total as well as recurring costs as the SAP proceeds. Although SAP expenditures will rise to
2.6% of GDP by 1997/98, this level is well below levels of effort for basic social services in
comparable low-income countries and should be sustainable by the GOP, even within a stringent fiscal
policy. The Project will also emphasize the need for more beneficiary contributions and cost recovery,
especially in RWSS. Over time, donor financing of incremental SAP costs will fall, from 53% in
1993/94 to 41% in 1995/96 and to 30% by 1997/98. This is only slightly higher than the share of
costs for basic services that donors covered before the SAP began. If this Project does well, there
could be a subsequent one with a further decline in the share financed by donors.



- 30 -
Environmental Aspects
93.          No detailed environmental analysis of the project was carried out, since the project
does not involve activities likely to endanger the environment. Rather, as the project helps to slow
population growth, it should ease pressures on the environment.
Consistency with Country Assistance Strategy and IDA Rationale
94.          The proposed SAP Project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
described in Part I of this Memorandum. Poverty reduction and reducing constraints to sustained
growth are the twin goals of the Bank's assistance strategy. The SAP program, with its emphasis on
improving basic social services and the poor's access to these services, provides a key vehicle for
helping achieve the Bank's goals. The proposed SAP Project--along with efforts to sustain the
economic policy improvements--therefore take the highest priority in IDA's work on Pakistan today
and fully support World Bank policy on use of IDA funds. As the poor are disproportionately
disadvantaged by the lack of adequate basic social services, the proposed SAP project, with its
concentration on basic social services, would provide significant benefits for the poor and help redress
the existing bias against the poor.
Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Interventions
95.          The Project is designed explicitly to reduce poverty and misery by attacking core
problems in implementation, design, and level of effort that now impede or prevent access to social
services particularly for the rural poor, who constitute the majority of Pakistan's population and who
disproportionately lack social services. The Project would especially help women and girls.
Benefits
96.          The SAP Project would help Pakistan's Social Action Program redress the generic
weaknesses of basic social services in Pakistan, by focusing on core problems that now impair
performance of those services. It would help expand the Government's implementation capacity in the
social sectors and could pave the way for greater donor involvement, either through traditional projects
that address key needs in a sector or through operations that provide "program support" but treat the
sector in more depth than the SAP Project would. The SAP Project would thus help improve the
quality of basic services and increase access, particularly for women and the poor. The emphasis on
basic services and on greater community participation in their design and delivery would mean that
services are better run and better used, and communities would be more likely to contribute to their
costs. In addition, popular political support for Government prograrms would be likely to grow,
enhancing Government commitment to investments in social services. As a result, the proposed
Project would promote productivity, reduce poverty, and encourage smaller, healthier, and better
educated families. It would also help slow Pakistan's exceptionally rapid population growth.
97.          Gains in the four basic social services will be mutually reinforcing. Healthy and well
nourished children are better able to learn. The most effective way to improve children's health is to
educate their mothers, while providing better health care. Satisfactory rural water supply and sanitation
reduce the high risk of diarrheal and other water-borne diseases, and thus complement basic health
services. Demand for, and use of, family planning services rises when women and girls are better
educated and when children receive health care that increases their chances of survival to adulthood.
Finally, improvements in health and learning promote greater economic productivity.



- 31 -
Recommendation
98.          I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 8, 1994



- 32 -
Schedule A
Page I of 2
Costs of the Social Action Program
(Current US$ million and Rs million)
In Current US Dollars (Million)   In Current Rupees (Million)
Three-       Five-                  Three-       Five-
Starting    Year         Year        Starting    Year         Year
Year      Program     Program        Year     Program      Program
(1993/94)  (FY94-96)   (FY94-98)    (1993/94)  (FY94-96)   (FY94-98)
PUNJAB                               532        1.789       3.457        1618       S7.242      112.832
Education                         362        1,259       2,434        11,023     40,276       79,455
Health                             79         260          532         2,412      8,314       17,353
RWSS                               90         270          491         2,750      8,652       16,024
S1NDH                                237         782         1.471        7 204     25.031       47.998
Educaion                           175         578         1,096        5,335     18,497       35,760
Health                              36         105          190         1,096      3,345        6,204
RWSS                                25         100          185          773       3,189        6,034
NWFP                                 157         594         1,156        4,790     19,00        37.729
Education                           99         378          736         3,024     12,088       24,016
Health                              19          99          182          579       3,156        5,956
RWSS                                39         117          238         1,188      3,758        7,757
BALOCHISTAN                          116         364          689         3.517     11.6S        22,
Education                           57         168          315         1,736      5,375       10,280
Health                              23         107          218          694       3,436        7,123
RWSS                                36          89          156         1,087      2,849        5,100
PROVINCIAL SUB-TOTAL                1.041      3,529         6.773       31.695    112.934      221.063
Education                          694       2,382        4,581        21,117     76,236      149,512
Health                             157         570         1,122        4,781     18,250       36,636
RWSS                               190         576         1,070        5,798     18,447       34,915
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR                  28         104          207          837       3,319        6,772
Education                          17          65          130          524       2,076        4,236
Health                              5          20           41          164        652         1,330
RWSS                                5          18           37          149        591         1,207
FEDERAL SUB-TOTAL                     88         387          751         2667      1.3745
Other Federal Areas                 36         137          275         1,108      4,393        8,964
Education                         19          79           166          563      2,522        5,408
Health                             7          26           49           201        845         1,608
RWSS                               11          32           60          341       1,027        1,947
Population                         35         173          350         1,054      5,533       11,425
Communicable Disease Control       16          66           116         475       2,099        3,773
Paricipatozy Development Program    0           5            5            0         160          163
SAP Monitoring & Evaluation         1           6            6           30         192          196
NATIONAL TOTAL                     _1.56        4.020        7.731       35.200    128.630      252.356



- 33 -
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
Sources of Funding for the SAP in FY93/94-95/96
(Current US$ million)
Total       %
Government's internal resources             3,050       75.9
Existing/expected aid                         552       13.7
Program Assistance                            313
IDA (SAP Project)                           200        5.0
ADB                                         100        2.5
Government of the Netherlands                 13        0.3
Additional Assistance to be Mobilized         105        2.6
Total                                    4,020      100.0



- 34 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SOCIAI, ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
Allocation and Disbursement of the Proposed IDA Credit
Amount of the
Credit Allocated      % of
(Expressed in SDR   Expenditures
Categorv                            Eauivalent)           To be Financed
(1) Sub Programs for FY94
Balochistan                      5,400,000            13.2% during FY94
NWFP                              3,700,000            6.1% during FY94
Punjab                           17,300,000           17.3% during FY94
Sindh                            7,000,000             5.5% during FY94
AJK                                800,000             5.3% during FY94
FATA                              1,900,000           14.7% during FY94
FANA                              1,500,000           25.9% during FY94
ICT                                400,000            10.2% during FY94
Government of Pakistan's         3,000,000            100% of foreign expenditure
Population Program                                    17.5% of local expenditure during FY94
(2) Vaccines, medicines, supplies and                     100% foreign expenditure,
Pesitcides for the Communicable  2,100,000            100% of local expenditure (ex factory cost)
Disease Control Program for FY94                      and 60% of local expenditure for
other items procured locally
(3) Grants for the                      0                 100%
Participation Development
Program in FY94
(4) Consultants for Monitoring
and Evaluation in FY94             100,000             100%
(5) Operating Cost for
Monitoring & Evaluation
Cost in FY94                       200,000             100%
(6) Equipment in FY94                  100,000            100% foreign expenditure; 100%/o of local
expenditure (ex factory cost) and 60% of local
expenditure for other items procured locally
(7) Unallocated                     101,700,0002
Total                               145,200,000
2/   These funds represents expected disbursements on the FY95 and FY96 annuam programs and will be
allocated in the course of reaching detailed agreement with the Govemment on these programs



- 35 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
1993/94      1994/95     1995/96
Annual Disbursements         50            80          70
Cumulative Disbursements      50          130        200



- 36 -
Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT
Timetable for Key Processing Events
(a) Time taken to Prepare                              12 months
(b) Prepared by                                       Government of Pakistan, Government of AJK,
Balochistan, NWFP, Punjab and Sindh
(c) First IDA Mission                                 September, 1992
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure                       September 8, 1993
(e) Negotiation                                       February 14 to February 18, 1994
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness                     April 15,1994
(f) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs                    1)    PCR No. 6827 for Primary Education dated
June 19, 1987 and PPAR No. 8859 dated
June 29, 1990;
2)    PCR No. 6252 for Education 11 dated June
16, 1986 and PPAR No. 8859 dated June
29, 1990;
3)    PCR No. 9262 for Population, Health and
Nutrition dated December 28, 1990
4)    PCR NO 8212 for Vocational Training
dated December 11, 1989 and PPAR No.
8859 dated June 29, 1990.



- 37 -
Annex 1
Page I of I
Pakistan's Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
FY91           FY92            FY93            FY94 a/
Portfolio Performance
No. of Projects under Implementation           59              57              59               49
Average implementation period (years) 1/      4.8             5.1             4.6              I.1
Average Ratings
Development Objectives 2/                   1.51            1.65            1.62             1.57
Overall Status 3/                           2.05           2.07             1.98             1.98
Percent of projects rated 3 4/
Development objectives                        3              12              8                 6
Overall status                               20             23              14                12
Canceled during FY                              0               0              0                 0
Disbursement Ratio (%) 5/                    15.2            16.9            17.5               22
Disbursement lag (%)                           33             29              26                29
Memorandum Item: % completed
projects rated unsatisfactory 6/                                              -                0
Portfolio Management
Supervision resources (total US$millions)      na             2.4             3.1              3.2
Average supervision (US$thousands/project)     na              42             52                61
Supervision Resources by Location (in %)
Percent headquarters                         75              73             73                73
Percent resident mission                     25             27              27                27
Supervision resources by rating category
(US$thousands/project)
Projects rated I or 2                        na             37              45                54
Projects rated 3 or 4                        na             48              61                71
Memorandum item: date of next CPPR                                                            4/94
a/      Annualized based on actual data as of December 31, 1993.
1/     This is the average age of a project in the Bank's portfolio.
2/      Extent to which the project will meet its development objectives. A rating of "I" means that all development
objectives are expected to be achieved; "2," some of the minor objectives may not be achieved but major objectives
are expected to be met: "3," major project objectives will probably be achieved only in part, and the continued
justification of the project is uncertain; and "4," major objectives will probably not be achieved, and the project
appears to be not longer justified (Annex D2 of OD13.05).
3/      Assessment of overall performance of the project based on the ratings given to individual aspects of project
implementation (e.g., management, availability of funds, compliance with legal covenants, etc, and to development
objectives. A rating of "I" means no significant problems; "2," moderate problems; "3," major problems but
appropriate actions are being taken to address the problems; and "4," major problems, but the problems are not
being adequately addressed or are caused by exogenous factors with no readily available solution. The overall
status rating is not given a better rating than that given to project development objectives (Annex D2 of OD 13.05).
4/      The portfolio had no projects rated "4" in FY91-94.
5/      Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the beginning of the
year (investment projects only).
6/      For FY94 only: from the OED Database.



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Pakistan Bank Group Fact Sheet
IBRD/IDA LENDING PROGRAM, FY91-97
PAST             CURRENT             PLANNED
FY91     FY92        FY93    FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97
Commitments (US$m)                677.1    324.2      428.9  600-700  600-700  600-700  600-700
Sector (/O)
Agric.(Incl.Nat Res.Protection)    15         9         19        5        35       30        20
Industiy & Finance                 12        0          0         0        30        15        0
Energy                             32       55          0        45         S       25        35
Public Sector Management            0         0         0        30         0        0         0
Other Infras. incl.Urban Devt.     33         0        45         5         0        15       25
Social Sectors                      6       36         36        20        30        15       20
TOTAL                             100       100        100      100       100       100      100
Lending Instrument (%)
Adjustment Loans                    4         0         0        30         0       25         0
Specific Inv. Loans & Others       96       100        100       70       100       75       100
TOTAL                             100       100        100      100       100       100       100
Disbursements (US$m)              536.7    663.7      536.5      630       675       700       700
Adjustment loans                 111.2    165.2       23.7      130       125       100       100
Specific investment loans &
others                          425.5    498.5       512.8      S00       550       600      600
Repayments (US$)                  103.0    149.0      178.0    143.0    161.0    168.0    203.0
Interest (US$)                    160.0    189.0      186.0    202.0    217.0    239.0    253.0



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
PAKISTAN: IFC and MIGA Program, FY91-93
PAST
FY91     FY92        FY93
IFC
Approvals (US$m)                 61.8      16.3      129.9
Sector (%)
Agri-business                     0.0       0.0        0.0
Capital Markets                  19.6      10.7       19.8
Chem-Fertilizer                  80.0       0.0        0.0
Infrastructure                    0.0       0.0       10.4
Manufacturing                     0.4      89.3       58.3
Oil-Mining                        0.0       0.0        0.0
Tourism                           0.0       0.0       11.5
TOTAL                           100.0    100.0       100.0
Investment Instrument (%)
Loans                            82.5      86.8       89.8
Equity                           17.5      13.2       10.2
Quasi-equity                      0.0       0.0        0.0
TOTAL                           100.0    100.0       100.0
MIGA guarantees (US$)              9.0      42.8       81.4
MIGA commitments (US$)                                 17.0



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page I of 2
Parstan: Priority Poverty Indicators
Me Semare iea*wuur                  Nat
25.50       1.20      rt                                   hhme
Unatof            YeS                s     a          Sout         U,.       incoMW
Indicator                                 nuaastw              age         age        (NW)         Asia _iome             gq-
POVERTY
Upperpoveatylim                           lowian. m                           ..      2,916           _           _           _
Heaount Wn                               %tpop,                                         3l    .. 31
Lower povety line                        lowr.                   __ .. r                              -                       *-
Headcount fnxes                          %ofpop                  .           _           ..         ..           _           _
GNP per capita                              USS                 110         130         400         320         350        1.610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unsied urban wags.                        lol                     ..         .. c
Unskilled mns_                                                                          192
Rural teams oftrad                                               .. 
CnAUiepriceindex                          1987-100               17         43          143
Lowe income                                                      ___
Food                                         *                   _                     145           _           _           _
Urban
Rwal
SOCAL INDICATORS
Public cxpendinanbasic socsalvics         %ofGDP                  ..          _           2
Gross nrdo matsatios
Prinwy                                 %schoolagep*p            40          40           47          95         113         100
Malo                                        '                  59          57           61         106         122         106
Female                                       *                 20          22           32          82         106          98
Mortali
infanmortality                         toLlivebihls            149         134          97          92          70          40
Under 5 motality                             '                   _                     138         128          98          53
Inmmiization
Mesles                                  %argrop                                         s o 50      57          73          70
DPT                                                              . _                    43          75          81          74
Child malnutition (und.5)                                                     -          40           _
Life expotsac
ToWl                                       yean                46           so          59          59          63          67
FenaJa/is                                  raio               0.95        0.96    S    OG         1.01        0.95         1.08
Total fertility rno                    bitthsperwoman           7.0         7.0         5.7         4.2          3.7         3.5
Maenl moralty mro                      100,000 live bir                       ..        270           _           -           _
Population growth rate                      Infant mortality rate                       Primary enrolHment
(pervert)                              (ScthL oflie ) birthst
6 +                                      250                                          120+
S                                         0                                           100 
4                                                                                      t0
150
3           Le                            10MX60i     
0~~~6
2  -4
1        ~                                 O                                           o       -.1
inid60s    mid70s       asm                mid60s    nid7a           ran                mid60s   mid70a        nma
okid;
LObW,



-41 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Pakistan: Resources And Expeditures
M   aw   ,qwJ.ecerw.ag             y4wN~
Unis4f            yw.         yews       uSeaM        Seed        La        Lus%WW
Jndi&totor                     n~~~~~~~Waswe        q"ae                  (au#         Asial    iuwne        gowl
HUKAN RESOURCES
Population (mre-1991)                     Mau"on                33         71          116       1,152       3,127        774
Age dependency ratio                       rati*              0."         0.94        0.88        0.73        0.66        0.71
Urban                                    %o*fpop.             23.S        26.4        33.0        26.0        40.1        53.9
population gpvwh rate                    Annual%               2.6         3.1         3.1         2.1         1.9         1.7
Urban                                                         3.8         4.3         6.1         2.2         5.2         3.1
Labor fore. (I -44)                      tmillions              17          22          35         420       1.448        302
Agpicultue                             %ofiabor font            60          57           .
Industry                                                        is          17           .
Female                                       *9                             10           32233                             32
Female per 100 malea
Urban                                    numnber               76          87           .
Rural                                       *94                            96           -
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                    thou. Sq. kin          796         796        796        5,133      38,828      23,99
Density                                pop~. pr sq. km        66.0        89.0       137.0       215.0        77.0        31.0
Agricultu-al land                      % o land ram           31.5        32.2        33.4        58.9        47.4        41.8
Change in agriculurzl land               samual                2.2         1.1         0.3         0.0         0.0         0.0
Apiculturul land under irrigWa io                             47.3        S4.9        62.0        26.2        13.7        12.6
Forests and woodland                    thou. sq. Im            21          28         35         809        9,197       5,396
Defor-st*zion (net)                      a~mi                  5.5         1.4         1.2          ..          -
INCOME
Household income
Shame of top 20% ofbhouseholds         % Of incomeo            45          42         46
Share ofbottong 400%9ofhousebold                               1a          21          19
Share ofbottom 20% of household             *6                              8           8 
EXPENDIT'URE
Food                                     %ofGDP                  ..       46.1        28.1        36.2
Staples                                                         -        16.0         9.3
Meal. fish, milk. dzese, eW                                              14 .0.       8.4
Cereal mrporza                       thou menctuoime         1,591       1,39        2,048       5,596      36,0O&     44,418
Food aid incemeals                           -                   .          94        428        2.408       6,669       4,047
Food production per capita              1979-41-100             8S         94         103         113         122         101
Fertilizer consumption                     kg/b                4.0        28.0        82.         57.5        47.5       94.2
Share ofagricultur in GDP                %of0DP               37.2        29.9        22.8        28.6        28.7
Housing                                  % oEODP                 .         9.4        12.4 
Average household size              persons per household       ..6                      ..
ueban                                                          ..6
Fixed invesuneit housing                 %of GDP                 ..        2.0         1.7-
Fuel and power                           %ofGDP                  ..        3.8         3.7           ..-
EnerD consumption per capita           kg of oil equiv.        135         137        233         207         350        1,249
Households with elecuticity
urban                                 %of households            ...                     ..
Rural                                                                      ...-
Transport and conuuunlstlon              %ofGDP                  .         1.6        10.0
Fixed inveunen ftrnsport equipment           -                   .         1.6         1.7
Total mad length                            km                  ...                111,237
IN,vESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Acoes to health cam                      %ofpop                  .....
Populatio per physician                   person                 .       4,300       2.96        2.459
Populaton per nurse                                          9,909       6,600       3,042          ..       1-4           o
Population per hospital bed                                      .       1,900       1.769       1,4         108           0
Access to safe wate                      % ofpop.               ..        25.0        56.0        70.3        70.6
Urban                                                           .        75.0        20.0        76.5        79.3
Rural                                                          ..         5.0        45.0        66.9        62.8
Oral rehydyrazon therpy (uiidv.5)        %ofcases               ...                    42           189        32
Education
Gross eniollrnert ratio
SeconeAy                             % ofschool.agopop.         12          I S        20          39          44          56
Female                                      -                              7           14         3 1         37      
pupil-teacher ratio: primary          pupils perteache          42          40         41          59          39          2 5
pupil-teacher ratio: secoondary                                 20          18          19         23          20
pupils ra%hing grade 4                  %ofoohort               ..          57         51I
Repeater raze: primarY                %o pop.o (age 15.)
liliteacy                            %o.. (P1+                              76         65          54          39
Female                              %offemn. (age 13.)          -           ..79                  62          52
Ne~wspsr circulation                    per thou pop.           35                      I 18
Source: World Bank Internationul Eacoasies Department, April 1993



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
Pakistan: Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimated          Projected
1989     1990     1991    1992     1993     1994      1995      1996
National Accounts (% of GDP at
current market prices)
Gross Domestic Product                100.0    100.0    100.0  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture a/                    23.9      23.1     22.8   23.4      22.4       --       --        -
Industry a/                       22.3      22.3     22.9   22.7      23.1
Services a/                       43.6      43.3     43.2   42.9      44.0       -         -        -
Consumption                           88.4      86.5     87.8   87.9      87.8     82.7      81.6     81.1
Gross Investment                       18.9     18.9     19.0   18.6      20.4     21.6      21.7     21.7
Private Investment                 12.6     12.3     12.2   11.4      11.8     12.5      13.2     13.7
Government Investment              6.3       6.6      6.8    7.2       8.6      9.1       8.5      8.0
Exports GNFS b/                        14.5     14.8     16.3   16.9      15.9     17.9      18.6     18.9
Imports GNFS b/                       21.8      20.2     23.2   23.4      24.1     22.2     21.9      21.7
Gross Domestic Savings c/              11.6     13.5     12.2   12.1      12.2     17.3      18.4     18.9
Gross National Savings                 14.6     16.6     14.9   15.7      14.4     18.7      19.7     20.1
Memorandum items:
Gross Domestic Product (million
US$ at current prices)        40171.0  40041.1  45625.2 48876.2  52288.6  54022.9  58840.5  64601.4
Gross National Product per capita
(US$, Atlas method)              373       382      384    407       421      440       452      470
Gross Domestic Product
at market prices (% growth)     4.8%     4.3%      5.6%    7.8%     2.6%     7.5%     6.5%      6.5%
Gross Domestic Income (% growth)   4.3%    4.5%     2.1%    7.0%     2.9%      7.3%     6.4%     6.5%
Real annual per capita growth
rates (/0, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross Domestic Product
at market prices                1.6%      1.1%     2.4%    4.6%    -0.2%     4.3%     3.3%      3.3%
Total Consumption                 0.5%    -0.3%    -0.4%    4.6%    -0.7%    -1.1%      2.2%     2. %
Private Consumption              -2.3%     0.9%     0.1%    4.3%    -1.6%      1.2%     1.7%     1.7%
a/      At factor costs; as percent of GDP in market prices.
b/      "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services".
c/      Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.



- 43 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Pakistan: Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimated            Projected
1989    1990    1991   1992          1993      1994    1995         1996
Balance of Payments (US$million)
Exports (GNFS) b/                      5577.0   6217.0   7450.0  8268.0   8316.2   9653.8  10934.8  12191.8
Merchandise f.o.b.                   4634.0   4927.0   5902.0  6762.0   6752.0   7981.9   9139.5   10248.4
Imports (GNFS) b/                      8736.0   9351.0  10563.0 11438.0  12592.7  11986.5  12889.8  14040.3
Merchandise f.o.b.                   7837.0   8053.0   9094.0  9874.0  10941.7  10204.5  10976.2  11978.9
Resource balance                      -3159.0  03134.0  -3113.0  -3194.2  -4276.6  -2332.7   -1954.9  -1848.6
Net current transfers (including
official current transfers)           2100.0   2210.0   2292.0  2961.0   2395.0   2115.0   2174.0   2149.0
Current account balance (after
official capital grants)             -1347.0  -1352.0  -1544.0  -1257.0  -3031.0  -1474.4  -1027.2   -908.6
Net private foreign direct investment   177.0    200.0    230.0   562.0    455.0    501.0    551.0    606.0
MLT Loans (net)                         937.1    803.7    786.7  2242.9   1751.0   1488.0   1198.0   1065.0
Officiai                             1260.0    996.6   1114.0  1694.9   1868.0   1523.0   1418.8    960.5
Private                              -322.9   -192.3   -327.3   548.0   -117.3    -35.0   -220.3         104.6
Other capital (net, incl.errors & omissions)   232.8    348.5    533.2 -1417.8    174,0    199.5    207.2    215.1
Change in reserves c/ (-: increase)       0.1      -0.2     -6.0  -130.0    651.0   -713.9   -929.2   -977.5
Memorandum items:
Resource balance (% of GDP at
current market prices)                -7.9%      -7.8%    -6.8%   -6.5%     -8.2%     -4.3%     -3.3%     -2.9%
Real annual growth rates (current US$)
Merchandise exports (f.o.b.)          6.2%      6.3%     19.8%   14.6%     -0.1%     18.2%     14.5%     12.1%
Merchandise imports (c.i.f.)         29.7%      2.8%     12.9%    8.6%     10.8%     -6.7%     7.6%      9.1%
Public Finance (% of GDP at current market prices)
Current revenues                       18.0%     18.5%     15.5%   17.8%     18.0%     18.4%     18.5%    19.6%
Current expenditures                   20.1%     19.5%     18.6%   18.7%     20.3%     19.5%     16.7%    16.8%
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)    -1.1%  -0.3%  -3.0%   -0.9%    -2.3%    +0.9%     +1.8%     +2.8%
Capital expenditure                     6.3%      6.6%      6.5%    5.6%      6.0%      6.2%     5.5%      5.0%
Foreign financing                       2.4%      2.8%      2.2%    1.2%      1.5%      2.3%      1.9o%    1.2%
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)      39.0%     39.1%     36.6%   37.2%     37.7%    37.4%     37.2%     37.1%
Growth of M2 (%)                        7.4%     11.6%     11.6%   20.6%     13.6%     15.3%    12.9%     12.1%
Private sector credit growth/total
credit growth (%)                    119.3%    139.1%    402.3%   55.8%    123.2%    170.8%    181.4%    189.9%
Price Indices (1992=100)
Merchandise export price index             --       --        -    100.0    101.4    105.1       108.6    112.5
Merchandise import price index                                -    100.0    100.5    103.9    106.9        110.6
Merchandise terms of trade index           --       --        -    100.0    100.9    101.1       101.6    101.7
Real exchange rate (US$QLCU d/)            --       --        -    100.0    100.2       93.7      93.7      93.7
Real interest rates                        -                  --      --        --        -         - 
Consumer price index (% growth rate)   10.4%      6.0%     12.7%    9.6%      9.3%     8.0%      6.5%      5.5%
GDP deflator (% growth rate)            8.7%      6.7%     12.8%   10.1%      9.6%     8.0%      6.5%      5.5%
b/      "GNFS" = "goods and nonfactor services".
c/      Includes use of IMF resources.
dl      "LCU" denotes "local currency units". An increase in the index denotes appreciation.



- 44 -
Annex 5
Plage I of I
Pakistan: Key Exposure Indicators
Actual              Estimated            Projected
1989    1990    1991    1992         1993      1994    1995         1996
Total Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
(TDO) (US$million) a/                 15699.0  17616.0  21067.0 22722.0  24455.7  25943.8  27141.2  28206.4
Net Disbursements (US$million) a/      1056.0   1207.0   1039.0  1850.0   1853.0   1764.0   1517.0   1261.0
Total Debt Service (TDS) (US$million) a/  1733.3   2007.0   2079.1  2209.7   2451.2   2367.0   2445.2   2550.6
Debt and Debt Service Indicators (%)
TDO/XGS b/                            206.2    213.1    224.6   231.6    245.9    231.5    213.9    200.2
TDO/GDP                                39.1     44.0      46.2    46.5      46.9      48.0      46.1      43.7
TDS/XGS                                22.8     24.3      22.2    22.5      24.6      21.1      19.3      18.1
ConcessionalfrDO                       68.7     64.5      55.2    56.7      57.4      58.2      59.3      59.3
IBRD Exposure Indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                       9.5      9.3      11.9    14.5      12.8      13.9      15.5      15.4
Preferred creditor/public DS           26.7     34.2      39.9    32.8      44.9      48.2      51.5      58.1
IBRD DS/XGS                             2.2      2.4       2.7     3.0       2.8       2.7       2.6       2.5
IFC (US$million)
Loans                                  8.78    46.08      41.2   14.38      33.0   40.1 d/
Equity and quasi-equity c/              0.7      4.1       9.9      1.2      4.8    8.1 d/
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$million)             --        -       9.0    42.8      81.4   17.0 e/
a/      Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
b/      "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c/      Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
d/      As of December 31, 1993.
et      As of March 1, 1994.



- 45 -
Annex 6
Page I of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Pakistan
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(as of December 31, 1993)
Undisbursed a/     Last ARPP
Amount in USS million   relative to     superv. rating
(less cancellations)   appraisal
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                   projection DevelapmentOverall
credit no.   year        Borrower                Purpose                 IBRD    IDA  Undisbursed (USSmillion) objectives  status
57 Loans and 75 credits have been fully disbursed                             2225.75  1963.78
Cr. 1243-PAK   1982  Republic of Pakistan  Balochistan Agricultural Dev.            14.00      0.78        0           1        2
Cr. 1375-PAK   1983  Republic of Pakistan  Fourth Drainage                          33.74      6.62        0           2        1
Cr. 1532-PAK   1985  Republic of Pakistan  Left Bank Outfall - Stage I             150.00    124.94     69.00          2        2
Cr. 1602-PAK   1985  Republic of Pakistan  Secondary Primary Education              52.50     14.42        0           2        2
Ln. 2556-PAK   1985  Republic of Pakistan  Fifth l APDA Power              100.0               4.05        0           2        2
Cr. 1652-PAK   1986  Republic of Pakistan  Karachi Special Development              70.00     16.20        0           2        3
Cr. 1670-PAK   1986  Republic of Pakistan  Second Vocational Training               40.20     26.79     16.91          3        3
Ln. 2743-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  Telecommunications V            100.0               2.78        0           1        2
Cr. 1755-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  Third Technical Assistance                7.00      3.68      2.18          1        2
Cr. 1762-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  Agric. Extension & Adaptive 11           42.10     14.62      6.05          2        2
Cr. 1821-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  Third Primary Education                 145.00     74.92     61.48          2        2
Ln. 2792-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  WAPDA VYI-P%Nr Plant Efficiency    70.00            6.64      6.48         2         2
Ln. 2814-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  Fourth Highways                152.00              44.15     35.62          1        2
Ln. 2839-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  SMdll Industries III            54.00              36.47     36.00         2         3
Ln. 2842-PAK   1987  Republic of Pakistan  Refinery Energy Conservation    21.00              16.56     15.83          1        2
Ln. 2884-PAK   1988  Republic of Pakistan  Cement Industry Modernization  96.00                1.23        0           1        2
Cr. 1888-PAK   1988  Republic of Pakistan  Second Irrigation Systems Rehab          79.50     40.40     36.89          2        2
Cr. 1895-PAK   1988  Republic of Pakistan  Punjab Urban Development                 90.00     47.54     40.94         2         2
Cr. 1936-PAK   1988  Republic of Pakistan  National Oilseed Development             20.00     13.10      9.41          3        3
Ln. 2973-PAK   1988  Republic of Pakistan  National Oilseed Development   31.40               31.40     31.40         3         3
Ln. 2982-PAK   1988  Republic of Pakistan  Private Sector Energy Development  150.00         132.49    121.28          1        2
Cr. 1982-PAK   1989  Republic of Pakistan  Industrial Investment Credit III          2.00      0.26       .20         2         2
Ln. 3019-PAK   1989  Republic of Pakistan  Industrial Investment Credit III  148.00           20.16     20.10          2        2
Cr. 1987-PAK   1989  Republic of Pakistan  Karachi Water & Sanitation nI           125.00     71.68     59.05          1        2
Ln. 3107-PAK   1989  Republic of Pakistan  Energy Sector Loan II         250.00               17.04     16.75         2         2
Cr. 2004-PAK   1989  Republic of Pakistan  Private Tubewell Development             34.40      4.18      1.60          1        1
Ln. 3147-PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Power Trans. Ext. & Reinforce.  162.00            106.28     91.39          1        2
Cr. 20-8-PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Rural Electrification                    37.00     27.86     18.97          3        3
Ln. 3 148-PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Rural Electrification         123.00             121.04    104.92          3        3
Cr. 2102-PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Sindh Primary Education                 112.50     87.82     55.11          2        2
Cr. 2153-PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Agriculture Credit                        1.50      1.45      1.48          3        3
Ln. 3226-PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Agriculture Credit             148.50              84.15     73.00          3        3
Cr. 2154-PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Agriculture Research 11                  57.30     56.64     24.78          2        2
Ln. 324 1.PAK   1990  Republic of Pakistan  Transport Sector Investment   184.00             119.83     39.46         2         2
Ln. 2884.1-PAK 1991  Republic of Pakistan  Cement Industry Modernization   56.40              35.81     33.22          1        2
Ln. 3107-1-PAK 1991  Republic of Pakistan  Energy Sector Loan lI Suppl.    28.00              18.78     18.61          2        2
Ln. 3252-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Corp. Restruct. & Systems Expan.   130.00          60.90     33.86          2        2
Ln. 3252-1-PAK 1991  Republic of Pakistan  Corp. Restructuring Suppl.     60.00               60.00     49.98         2         2
Cr. 2228-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation         136.70    123.20     12.75          1        2
Ln. 3318-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Microenterprise                26.00               22.70     i0.22          1        2
Cr. 2240-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Famil) Health                            45.00     41.90      7.03          1        2
Cr. 2245-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Third On-Farm Water Management           47.30     21.05     20.37         2         2



- 46 -                                                          Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
Undisbursed    Last ARPP
Amount In USS million     relative to    superv. rating
(less cancellations)     appraisal
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                   projection DevelopmentOverall
credit no.   year        Borrower                Purpose                 IBRD    IDA  Undisbursed (USSmillion) objectives  status
Ln. 3327-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Third On-Farm Management        36.30              36.30      7.19          2        2
Cr. 2257-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Second SCARP Transition                  20.00     18.64      4.83          1        2
Ln. 3335-PAK   1991  Republic of Pakistan  Karachi Port Modernization      91.40              72.12     50.30          1        2
Cr. 2354-PAK   1992  Republic of Pakistan  Punjab Middle Schooling                 115.00    111.49      8.50          1        2
Cr. 2383-PAK   1992  Republic of Pakistan  Env. Prot. & Resourse Conservation       29.20     29.64      2.64          1        1
Ln. 3500-PAK   1992  Republic of Pakistan  Domestic Energy Resources      180.00             180.00     93.96          1        2
Cr. 1987-1-PAK 1993  Republic of Pakistan  Karachi Water & Sanitation 11            91.90     91.96     74.26          1
Cr. 2410-PAK   1993  Republic of Pakistan  East. Sadiqia South Irrigation           54.20     52.73      4.92          1        1
Cr. 2464-PAK   1993  Republic of Pakistan  Family Health 11                         48.00     48.45      3.94          1        1
Cr. 2468-PAK   1993  Republic of Pakistan  1992 Flood Damage Restoration            100.0    100.82      9.00          1        1
Cr. 2482-PAK   1993  Republic of Pakistan  Balochistan Primary                     106.00    105.81         0        NR       NR
Cr. 2512-PAK   1993  Republic of Pakistan  North Pakistan Resources Mgt.            28.80     28.25         0          1        1
Cr. 2542-PAK   1994  Republic of Pakistan  Public Sector Adjustment                100.00     52.05         0        NR       NR
Ln. 3645-PAK   1994  Republic of Pakistan  Public Sector Adjustment       150.00              76.96        0         NR       NR
Cr. 2558-PAK   1994  Republic of Pakistan  Sindh Special Development                46.80     46.80         0        NR       NR
Total                                              4773.75 4046.42?   2814.53   1441.86
of which has been repaid                            1050.97   199.36
Total now outstanding                              3722.78  3847.06
Amount sold                                          33.09
of which has been repaid                              33.09
Total undisbursed                                                      2814.53
a/   Disbursement lag: Difference between actual disbursements and estimated disbursements from original appraisal projections.
b/   IDA Credits beginning with the 6th Replenishment are denominated in SDRs, and are shown in US$ equivalents at the time of negotiations. Disbursed
amounts are computed at the exchange rate applicable at the date of this statement.



- 47-
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
The Status of Bank Group Operations in Pakistan
Statement of IFC Investments
(as of December 31, 1993)
Amount ($mfillions)
Date            Borrower                       Purpose                 Loan         Equity      Total
1958        Steel Corp. of Pakistan     Iron & Steel                     0.63                     0.63
1959        Adamjee Industries Ltd.     Textiles                         0.75                     0.75
1961/65     Gharibwal Cement Ltd.       Cement                           4.76        0.42         5.18
1963/64/75   PICIC                      DFC                                          3.00         3.00
87/89/92
1965/80/82   Packages Limited           Paper Products                  17.00         1.24       18.24
87/88/91
1965        Crescent Jute               Textiles                         1.83        0.11         1.94
1967        Pakistan Paper Corp.        Paper                            4.83        2.02         6.85
1969/89     Datvood Hercules            Fertili-er                      18.30        2.92        21.22
1979        Fauji Foundation            Polyp,.. ylene Bags              1.78                     1.78
1979        Attock Refinery Ltd.        Chemicals & Petrochemicals       7.50        0.86         8.36
1979        Milkpak Ltd.                Food Processing                  1.90        0.40         2.30
1979/82     Pakistan Oilfields Ltd.     Chemicals & Petrochemicals       7.00         1.18        8.18
1980        Premier Board               Particle Board                   2.70                     2.70
1981        Habib Arkady Ltd.           Food & Food Processing           3.15        0.16         3.31
1982        Asbestos Cement Ird. Ltd.    Cement & Construction Material    4.02      0.51         4.53
1983/85     Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.     Chemicals & Petrochemicals      25.30         1.56       26.86
1985        NDLC                        Leasing                          5.49        0.37         5.86
1986/92     Mari Gas Company Ltd.       Chemicals & Petrochemicals      44.48                    44.48
1987/89     Anglo-Suisse                Chemicals & Petrochemicals                   6.80         6.80
1988        Fecto Cement                Cement & Construction Material   18.58                   18.58
1988        Millat Tractors             Tractors                         4.90                     4.90
1989        Shams Textiles              Textiles & Fibers                2.76                     2.76
1989        Suraj Cotton                Textiles & Fibers                2.76                     2.76
1989        Hala Spinning               Textile Spinning                 3.26        0.66         3.92
1990        Pakistan Suzuki             Automotive                      18.17                    18.17
1990        Rupali Polyster             Synthetic Textiles              22.38        2.00        24.38
1990        FIIB                        Capital Markets                               1.57        1.57
1990        Housing Finance Corp.       Capital Markets                  5.:3        0.49         6.02
1991        Engro Chemicals Pak. Ltd.    Chemicals & Petrochemicals     36.20        8.50        44.70
1991        PILCO                       Capital Markets                  5.00                     5.00
1991        Prudential Discount Guarantee  Capital Markets                           0.40         0.40
1991        ElM, The Fund               Capital Markets                              0.78         0.78
1991        EIL                         Capital Markets                              0.24         0.24
1992        J.S. Stock Brokerage        Capital Markets                              0.86         0.86
1992        Rupafil Limited             Synthetic Textiles              14.38        0.34        14.72
1993        Sarah Textiles              Textiles                         6.00         1.50        7.50
1993        Central Securities Depositor   Capital Markets                           0.25         0.25
1993        Muslim Commercial Bank      Capital Markets                 15.00                    15.00
1993        Pakistan Services Limited   Tourism                         12.00        3.00        15.00
1994        Crescent Greenwood Ltd.     Textiles                        16.10        3.10
1994        Fauji Cement                Cement                          24.00        5.00
Total Gross Commitrnents                                   --
358.44       50.24       360.48
Less Cancellations, Termination Exchanges
Adjustments, Prepayments and Sales
Writeoffs and Sales                                      267.83        33.24      252.87
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          90.61        17.00       107.61
Total Undisbursed                                          85.82        12.25        98.07



IBRD 23805R
36                           64                                                                              74'             74.    38'
bZBEKISTAN TAJIKISTAN                            TAJIKISTAN
CHINA
TURKMENISTAN
AFGHANISTAN
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
_                                                      C        Pes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hawor   JAMMU A)
ISIAMIC                                                                       X   4         S
RERIF                                                                                          PAKISTAN
;    Rivers
*  Province Capitals
f   National Capital
26                                    '                                                               Province Boundaries
l    Intemotional Boundaries
,  -;                 f  _            G        "          Hyderabad
Arabian Seac
24t                                                                                                      0, 2,0, 40 60, so Too   24-
6r               64                                                                                        7       76
JULY 1993



