Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2593 PAK
                       Development Credit Agreement
                      (Social Action Program Project)
                                  between
                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated April 4, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2593 PAK
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1994, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN (the Borrower) acting by its President and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Asian
Development Bank a loan (the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $100,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Asian Development Bank;
    (C)   the Borrower has obtained from the Government of the
Netherlands a debt relief grant (the Netherlands Debt Relief
Grant) in an amount equivalent to Dfl. 6,250,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the Netherlands Debt Relief Grant Agreement)
dated December 7, 1993 entered into between the Borrower and
the Government of the Netherlands;
Page  2
    (D)   the Government of the Netherlands (the Netherlands)
intends to make available for the benefit of the Borrower a
grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount in Dutch Guilders
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be administered by the Association
on behalf of the Netherlands for purposes of assisting in
financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement to be entered into between the Association and the
Netherlands (the Netherlands Trust Fund Agreement) and an
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Association (the Netherlands Grant Agreement);
    (E)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant be
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made;
    (F)   the relevant activities under Parts A(ii), A(iii),
A(iv) and D(1)(b) of the Project will be carried out by the
Province of Balochistan, the Province of Punjab, the Province
of Sindh, the North West Frontier Province (the Provinces),
Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), and the Federally Administered
Tribal Areas (FATA), respectively, with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to the Provinces, AJK and FATA a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Provinces, AJK and FATA;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
    (b)   "Sindh" means the Province of Sindh, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
    (c)   "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
    (d)   "Balochistan" means the Province of Balochistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
    (e)   "AJK" means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir or
any successor thereto;
    (f)   "Provinces" mean Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and Balochistan
collectively, and "Province" means each and any of the
Provinces individually;
Page  3
    (g)   "FATA" means the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of
the Borrower administered through its Ministry of States and
Frontier Regions and the Governor of NWFP;
    (h)   "FANA" means the Federally Administered Northern Areas
of the Borrower within the administrative jurisdiction of its
Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas (as hereinafter
defined);
    (i)   "ICT" means the Islamabad capital territory, an
administrative unit of the Borrower within the administrative
jurisdiction of its Ministry of Interior;
    (j)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Provinces, AJK and FATA of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
    (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (l)   "Project Sectors" mean collectively the primary
education sector, the primary health sector, the population
welfare sector and the rural water supply and sanitation sector
of each Province, AJK, FATA, FANA or ICT, as the case may be,
and "Project Sector" means each and any Project Sector
individually;
    (m)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's, AJK's,
FATA's or a Province's fiscal year, as the case may be,
covering the period July 1 through June 30;
    (n)   "Social Action Program" or "SAP" means the five-year
Social Action Program of the Borrower, including also, inter
alia, such Program for each Province, AJK, FATA, FANA and ICT,
satisfactory to the Association, which has been prepared within
the overall framework of the Borrower's Eighth Five-Year Plan
covering FY94 through FY98, with the objective of expanding and
improving the coverage and delivery of services in the Project
Sectors;
    (o)   "Sub-program" means individually the program of the
Borrower, each Province, AJK, FATA, FANA or ICT, as the case
may be, in respect of each of the Project Sectors for each of
the Fiscal Years 94, 95 and 96, which has been, or shall be, as
the case may be, formulated within the framework of the Social
Action Program, and which shall be reflected in an operational
plan, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth, inter
alia, the activities to be carried out, the policy reforms and
other measures to be implemented, the expenditures to be
undertaken and the financing to be provided under such program
in and for each such Project Sector during each such Fiscal
Year, and "Sub-programs" mean all and every such Sub-programs
collectively;
    (p)   "Grants" mean collectively grants made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit for
the purposes of the Participatory Development Program set forth
in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "Grant" means
each and every such Grant individually;
    (q)   "Federal SAP Secretariat" means the secretariat
established by the Borrower, inter alia, for the purposes of
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of
SAP to the extent that SAP, including the relevant Sub-
programs, is to be carried out by the Borrower on its own
behalf; and
    (r)   "SAP Cells" mean collectively the cells established by
the Borrower, the Provinces, AJK and FATA, inter alia, for the
purposes of monitoring and evaluating progress in implementing
Page  4
SAP to the extent that SAP, including the relevant Sub-
programs, is to be carried out by the Borrower (on behalf of
FANA and ICT), the Provinces, AJK and FATA, respectively, and
"SAP Cell" means each and every such cell individually.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred forty five million two
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 145,200,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Netherlands Grant may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and the account established for the purpose of the Netherlands
Grant in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Parts A, B and D of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals
made by the relevant beneficiary under a Grant to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Grant
activities in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit
Account is requested.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part C of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
Page  5
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August
1 commencing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1 1/4%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be two and one-half percent (2 1/2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out or cause to be carried out Parts
                A(i), B, C, and D (except D(1)(b)) of the
                Project) with due diligence and efficiency and in
                conformity with appropriate administrative,
                financial, education, health, population and
                rural water supply and sanitation practices and
                shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required
                for such Parts of the Project; and
          (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                other obligations under the Development Credit
                Agreement, shall cause the Provinces, AJK and
                FATA to perform all their obligations set forth
                in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to
                be taken all action, including the provision of
                funds, facilities, services and other resources,
Page  6
                necessary or appropriate to enable the Provinces,
                AJK and FATA to perform such obligations, and
                shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                which would prevent or interfere with such
                performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall make available to the Provinces, AJK
and FATA a portion of the proceeds of the Credit for purposes
of the respective Parts of the Project to be carried out by
them.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A(ii), A(iii) and A(iv) and
D(1)(b) of the Project shall be respectively carried out by the
Provinces, AJK and FATA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
    Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all such measures
as may be necessary or required, satisfactory to the
Association, for the purpose of increasing the overall level of
expenditures for the Social Action Program in each Fiscal Year
during the implementation of the Project to such target levels
as agreed within the framework of the Social Action Program,
acceptable to the Association, except under circumstances
acceptable to the Association, provided, however, that even
under these circumstances such levels shall not fall below
2.05% of the Borrower's Gross Domestic Product in FY94, 2.15%
in FY95 and 2.30% in FY96.
    (b)   In achieving such expenditure increases, the Borrower
shall ensure that the financing of the Social Action Program in
each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project from
its own resources increases to meet the levels of its target
contribution formulated in the context of the financing plan of
the Social Action Program, acceptable to the Association,
except under circumstances acceptable to the Association,
provided, however, that even under these circumstances, such
levels shall not fall below 1.6% of the Borrowers' Gross
Domestic Product in FY94, 1.7% in FY95 and 1.8% in FY96.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that no bans on
recruitment of field staff are imposed in respect of the
Project Sectors of the Borrower, FANA and ICT.
    Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) by March 31 of each
Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project or such
later date as may be acceptable to the Association, provide or
cause to be provided to the Association, for its assessment and
review, each proposed Sub-program to be carried out by the
Borrower, whether on its own behalf or on behalf of FANA or
ICT, as the case may be, in the next following Fiscal Year;
    (b)   by June 30 of each such Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project, or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Association, provide to the Association for
its approval each such Sub-program modified in a manner
satisfactory to the Association taking into account its
comments and recommendations; and
    (c)   carry out or cause to be carried out each such Sub-
program in form and substance as approved by the Association
and in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Page  7
    Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through the Federal SAP
Secretariat or the relevant SAP Cell and not later than 60 days
after the end of each quarter of each Fiscal Year of Project
implementation, furnish to the Association, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, a progress report on
the implementation of each Sub-program for which the Borrower
is responsible, whether in its own behalf or on behalf of FANA
or ICT, as the case may be, during such quarter.
    Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, with the participation of
the Association, the Provinces, AJK and FATA, carry out, no
later than June 30 of each Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project, an annual review of the Project
for purposes, inter alia, of (i) monitoring and evaluating
progress made to date under the SAP and the Sub-programs
carried out in the current Fiscal Year; (ii) obtaining the
approval of the Association in respect of the eligibility of
Sub-programs for financing by the Association in the following
Fiscal Year, including the amounts to be allocated in respect
of such approved Sub-programs; and (iii) obtaining the approval
of the Association in respect of the expenditure program and
the financing plan for the SAP in the following fiscal year and
the Borrower's contribution relating thereto.
    Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the Netherlands Grant
shall be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions of the Association.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the respective
activities under Parts A(i), B, C, and D (except D(1)(b)) of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than nine months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                thereof as the Association shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or the account established for the
purpose of the Netherlands Grant were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  8
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Any Province, AJK or FATA shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
any Province, AJK or FATA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The ADB Loan Agreement and the Netherlands Grant
Agreement shall have each failed to become effective by June
15, 1994 or such later date as the Association may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
    (d)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)    The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                       proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                       Borrower for the financing of the Project
                       shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                       terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                       the terms thereof, or
                (B)    any such loan shall have become due and
                       payable prior to the agreed maturity
                       thereof.
         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                Project are available to the Borrower from other
                sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                the obligations of the Borrower under this
                Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  9
    (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
    (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of that
Section; and
    (c)   any event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Provinces, AJK and
FATA, and is legally binding upon the Provinces, AJK and FATA
in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.03. The provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in the Economic
Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of
            Pakistan
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad, Pakistan
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                ECONOMIC                       ECDIV-05-634
                Islamabad
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
Page  10
                Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                       By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                       Amount             Amount
                       of the             of the
                       Credit           Netherlands
                     Allocated             Grant              % of
                     (Expressed          (Expressed       Expenditures
                       in SDR                in               to be
Category             Equivalent)      US$ Equivalent)        Financed
(1)  Goods,         Such amount as     Such amount as      Such
     works,         may be             may be              percentage as
     consultants'   allocated by       allocated by        may be de-
     services and   the Association    the Association     termined by
     operating      from time to       from time to        the Associa-
     costs under    time to sub-       time to sub-        tion from
     approved       categories (a)     categories (a)      time to time
     Sub-programs   through (f)        and (b) hereof      for sub-
     for:           hereof                                 categories (a)
                                                           through (f)
                                                           hereof
   (a) Balochistan  5,400,000 for      1,200,000 for       13.2% during
                    FY94               FY94, provided      FY94
                                       such funds are
                                       utilized for
                                       the education
                                       sector only
   (b) NWFP         3,700,000 for      800,000 for         6.1% during
                    FY94               FY94, provided      FY94
Page  11
                                       such funds are
                                       utilized for
                                       the education
                                       sector only
   (c) Punjab       17,300,000 for         --              17.3% during
                    FY94                                   FY94
   (d) Sindh        7,000,000 for          --              5.5% during
                    FY94                                   FY94
   (e) AJK          800,000 for            --              5.3% during
                    FY94                                   FY94
   (f) FATA         1,900,000 for          --              14.7% during
                    FY94                                   FY94
   (g) Borrower     3,000,000 for          --              100% of foreign
                    FY94                                   expenditures
                                                           and 17.5% of
                                                           local expendi-
                                                           tures during
                                                           FY94
   (h) FANA         1,500,000 for          --              25.9% during
                    FY94                                   FY94
   (i) ICT          400,000 for            --              10.2% during
                    FY94                                   FY94
(2) Vaccines,       2,100,000              --              100% of foreign
    medicines,                                             expenditures,
    supplies and                                           100% of local
    pesticides                                             expenditures
    under Part B                                           (ex-factory
    of the Project                                         cost) and 60%
                                                           of local
                                                           expenditures
                                                           for other items
                                                           procured locally
(3) Goods and         -0-                  --              100%
    services
    under Grants
(4) Consultants'   100,000                 --              100%
    services
    under Part D
    of the Project
(5) Operating      200,000                 --              100%
    costs under
    Part D of
    the Project
(6) Equipment      100,000                 --              100% of foreign
    under Part D                                           expenditures,
    of the                                                 100% of local
    Project                                                expendtures
                                                           (ex-factory cost)
                                                           and 60% of local
                                                           expenditures for
                                                           other items
                                                           procured locally
(7) Unallocated    101,700,000         8,000,000
                   ___________        __________
     TOTAL         145,200,000        10,000,000
                   ===========        ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  12
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "Operating Costs" appearing in Category 5 of
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule means the office and
training costs of staff appointed by the Borrower, the
Provinces, AJK or FATA, as the case may be, after July 1, 1993
in the Federal SAP Secretariat or the SAP Cells, as the case
may be, and the salaries, allowances and office costs of staff
appointed by the Borrower after the date of this Agreement for
the purposes of the household survey to be carried out under
Part D.2 of the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
    (a)   in respect of a Sub-program, unless such Sub-program
has been approved by the Association in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement or
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, as the case may be;
    (b)   in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been made
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
    (c)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 29,000,000
may be made out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (5) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1993; and
    (d)   in respect of payments made for expenditures for goods
and services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower,
the Provinces, AJK and FATA in: (i) making effective use of
existing operating facilities in the Project Sectors so as to
reach disadvantaged groups, particularly women, through
improved service delivery to all areas; (ii) initiating the
rehabilitation and subsequent use of currently run-down or
unused facilities; (iii) ensuring better and faster
implementation of on-going and planned social sector investment
programs; (iv) promoting beneficiary participation in the
design and implementation of social service programs; and (v)
establishing procedures and institutional capacity, and
providing commensurate resources, to expand service delivery
capacity and enhance the quality of such services.
    The Project, which is a three-year time slice of the Social
Action Program, consists of the following parts, subject to
Page  13
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Sub-programs
    The financing of Sub-programs of (i) the Borrower (including
those to be carried out on behalf of FANA and ICT), (ii) the
Provinces, (iii) AJK, and (iv) FATA.
Part B:   Communicable Disease Control Program
    Acquisition and distribution of vaccines, medicines,
supplies and pesticides needed to control communicable
diseases.
Part C:   Participatory Development Program
    The financing of Grants to develop and test innovative
approaches to improving the quality and coverage of service
delivery in the Project Sectors with focus, inter alia, on
involving communities in such service delivery.
Part D:   Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.  Strengthening of (a) the Federal SAP Secretariat, and (b)
the SAP Cells, all through the provision of technical
assistance and equipment.
2.  Designing and implementation of a household survey to
monitor the progress of the Social Action Program including the
Project.
3.  Designing and implementation of a management information
system relating to the Project Sectors.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  14
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association, except in FANA
and FATA where force account procedures, acceptable to the
Association, may be applied.
2.  Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part C, (i) goods
to be financed under approved Sub-programs under Part A of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less
per contract, (ii) vaccines, medicines, supplies and pesticides
under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, and (iii) equipment under
Part D of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
3.  Goods to be financed under approved Sub-programs under Part
A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or
less per contract, vaccines, medicines, supplies and pesticides
under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or less per contract, and equipment under Part D of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $500,000 under each such Part of the Project, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.  Goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grants made under Part C of the Project shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors, such as, time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them.
5.  Vaccines, medicines and supplies to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit under Part B of the Project may be
procured through the United Nations International Children's
Emergency Fund (UNICEF) under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association, and contraceptives for the population welfare
sector Sub-program of the Borrower to be financed out of theproceeds of the Credit 
under Part A (i) of the Project may be
procured through the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract awarded under Part A
hereof, and each contract for goods, works, equipment,
vaccines, medicines, supplies and pesticides estimated to cost
Page  15
the equivalent of $200,000 or more per contract, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower, the Provinces, AJK and FATA
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower, the Provinces, AJK
and FATA shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to
the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment
of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Modifications of the General Conditions
    For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
    (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (2)   The words "the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set
forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:
          "or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (b) of
    Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement, the
    Association shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit:
    (i) have received no applications permitted under sub-
    paragraph (a) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any
    such applications, the Association may, by notice to the
    Borrower, terminate the right to submit such applications or
    to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may
Page  16
    be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit.
    Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of
    the Credit shall be cancelled."
                                SCHEDULE 5
               Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Grants
1.  Grants under Part C of the Project shall satisfy the
following criteria:
    (a)   the purposes for which such grants may be made shall be
to develop and test (i) innovative approaches to improving the
quality of social services; (ii) effective mechanisms for their
delivery; and (iii) practical strategies for rapid expansion of
their coverage (the "Grant activities");
    (b)   such grants may be made to government agencies, non-
governmental organizations, academic and research institutions,
foundations, community organizations and private institutions
(the "beneficiaries") to be selected based on the following,
among other, criteria: (i) demonstrated effectiveness in
organizing and delivering community-based services on a
substantial scale and in diverse settings; (ii) need for, and
ability to make effective use of, additional funding; (iii)
potential for replicability of the program on a larger scale;
(iv) capacity for working in partnership with government social
sector institutions; and (v) willingness to test and analyze
the effectiveness of different innovations;
    (c)   the work program for a Grant activity shall not exceed
two and a half years;
    (d)   the cost of a Grant activity shall not be less than the
equivalent of $100,000; and
    (e)   proposals for such grants shall have technical merits
and the activities to be financed out of such grants shall have
a geographic coverage, all satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
2.  No expenditures for goods or services required for a Grant
activity shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit unless the Grant for such Grant activity shall have
been approved by the Association and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Association shall have received the application
and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule
in respect of such activity.
3.  (a)   When presenting a Grant to the Association for
approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association an
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together
with (i) a description and appraisal of the Grant activity,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
    (b)   Applications made pursuant to the provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the
Association on or before June 30, 1995.
4.  Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the beneficiaries or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and the Borrower, including the
right to:
    (a)   require the beneficiary to carry out and operate the
grant activity with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
Page  17
    (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in
accordance with the provisions of Part C.4 of Section I of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the grant
activity;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such
goods, works, plants and construction included in the grant
activity, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
    (d)   require that: (i) the beneficiary shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the beneficiary to replace or repair
such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the
grant activity; and
    (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such
beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with
the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category 3 set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Grant activities under Part C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Page  18
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Category, and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Category for Part C of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Part C of the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Category for Part C of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
Page  19
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
