CREDIT NUMBER   2 593    PAK
Proj ect Agreement
(Social Action Program Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
and
PROVINCE OF SINDH
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
and
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
and
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS
Dated                 4L, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2 693 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                           , 1994, among the
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)   and
PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN acting by its Governor (Balochistan) and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB acting by its Governor (Punjab) and PROVINCE OF
SINDH acting by its Governor (Sindh) and NORTH WEST FRONTIER
PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP) and AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
acting by its President (AJK) and the FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL
AREAS acting by the Governor of NWFP (FATA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
forty five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
145,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Balochistan, Punjab, Sindh and NWFP (the Provinces), AJK and FATA
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Provinces, AJK and FATA, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Provinces, AJK and FATA declare their
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out their respective activities under Parts A(ii), A(iii) and A(iv)


﻿- 2 -
and D(1)(b) of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, education,
health, population and water utility practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such activities.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and their respective activities under Parts A(ii), A(iii)
and A(iv) and D(1)(b) of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of their respective activities under Parts
A(ii), A(iii) and A(iv) and D(1)(b) of the Project, the performance
of their obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of their respective activities under
Parts A(ii), A(iii) and A(iv) and D(1)(b) of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
the Provinces, AJK and FATA of their respective obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall ensure that no
bans on recruitment of field staff are imposed in respect of the
Project Sectors.
Section 2.06. The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall:
(a)   by  March   15  of   each  Fiscal   Year  during   the
implementation of the Project, or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Association, provide or cause to be provided to
the Association, for its assessment and review, each proposed Sub-


﻿- 3 -
program to be carried out by the Provinces, AJK and FATA in the next
following Fiscal Year;
(b)   by June 30 of each such Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project, or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Association, provide to the Association for its
approval each such Sub-program modified in a manner satisfactory to
the   Association   taking   into   account   its   comments   and
recommendations; and
(c)   carry out or cause to be carried out each such Sub-
program in form and substance as approved by the Association and in
a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.07. The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall, through their
respective SAP Cells and not later than 60 days after the end of
each quarter of each Fiscal Year of Project implementation, furnish
to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, a progress report on the implementation of SAP and each
Sub-program for which the Provinces, AJK and FATA are respectively
responsible during such quarter.
Section 2.08.   The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall cooperate
with the Borrower and the Association in carrying out the annual
reviews of the SAP, the Sub-programs and the Project pursuant to
Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall maintain
or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of their respective activities
under Parts A(ii), A(iii) and A(iv) and D(1)(b) of the Project of
the departments or agencies of the Provinces, AJK and FATA
responsible for carrying out such activities.
(b)   The Provinces, AJK and FATA shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association.
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces, AJK and FATA thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the Development    Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)    the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Provinces, AJK and FATA of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Balochistan:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Balochistan
Quetta, Pakistan
Cable address:                 Telex:
DEVELOPMENT               7875 BLNSE PK
Quetta, Pakistan


﻿-6-
For Punjab:
The Chairman
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:                 Telex:
DEVELOPMENT               82-04-4868
Lahore                    Punjab Secretariat
Pakistan                  Lahore, Pakistan
For Sindh:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sindh
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:                 Telex:
DEVELOPMENT SINDH         952-23950
Karachi, Pakistan
For NWFP:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Cable address:                 Telex:
DEVELOPMENT               952-52371
Peshawar, Pakistan
For AJK:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Muzaffarabad, Azad Jammu and Kashmir


﻿-7-
For FATA:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Provinces, AJK and FATA may be taken or
executed: (a) on behalf of Balochistan, Sindh, NWFP, AJK and FATA,
by their respective Additional Chief Secretary (Development),
Planning and Development Department; and (b) on behalf of Punjab, by
the Chairman of its Planning and Development Board, or such other
person or persons as the Provinces, AJK and FATA shall designate in
writing, and the Provinces, AJK and FATA shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 11j              SE1q     tj
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
PROVINCE OF SINDH
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS
Byiv
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of' the international
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


