MEXICO: NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Management Plan
E-401
Introduction
1. The Mexico Natural Disaster Management Project will provide resources for
post-disaster emergency recovery and reconstruction financed by FONDEN and
executed either through SCT, CNA, SEMARNAP, SEDESOL, SAGAR, SEP
and SS orfideicomisos mixios estatales (FMEs). To be eligible for Bank-
financing, works must be initiated within 15 days prior to and 180 days
following the declaration of emergency by the Secretary of Interior (SEGOB).
The project will also finance policy and institutional reforms aimed at reducing
vulnerability of infrastructure and communities to natural events, and capacity
building activities to strengthen the capacities of environmental and sectoral
implementing agencies to manage environmental issues.
2. Because the emergency recovery and reconstruction subprojects that the
project will finance will be defined and carried out after an emergency has
occurred, such subprojects are deemed analogous to emergency recovery
projects under Bank OP 8.50 for environmental purposes (see OP 4.01, para.
13).
3. For purposes of environmental assessment (EA), the project is classified as
category B because no eligible subprojects are expected to have significant
adverse environmental impacts. All studies and capacity building activities will
be environmental assessment category C.
4. This environmental management plan (EMP) was prepared on the basis of a
review of Mexican environmental laws and regulations and extensive
consultations with federal environmental authorities and the executing agencies,
including initial consultations with local NGOs and executing agencies on
proposed environmental assessment procedures, public consultation measures,
and actions to protect cultural property under the project. It describes Mexico's
environmental regulations and institutional arrangements for EA, especially as
they apply to emergency recovery and reconstruction subprojects not normally
subject to prior review by the Bank; assesses institutional capacity to carry out
EA; and provides a negative list of subprojects that the project will not finance
and a positive list of subprojects that it can. This EMP also outlines proposed
EA arrangements for each type of subproject financed by the project, describes
how cultural property will be treated and how public consultation will occur,
sets out the procedures for reporting and Bank supervision and monitoring, and
outlines contemplated capacity development activities.
Mexican environmental law
5. The Mexican Environmental Law (Ley General del Equilibrio Ecol6gico y la
Protecci6n al Ambiente or LGEEPA) was enacted in 1988 and last modified in
1996. It requires an executing agency or responsible party (federal entity, state
or municipal government, or contractor) to obtain an environmental permit.
This permit may require the responsible party to submit an environmental



impact assessment report to the National Ecology Institute (INE) for works and
activities that fall under federal jurisdiction and that may have negative
environmental impacts. The law provides for environmental assessment
procedures which vary by type of works and their environmental impacts. A
full environmental impact assessment "manifeslaci6n de impacto ambiental"
(MIA) is required for activities with the most significant environmental impacts.
A preventive report (informepreventivo) is required for activities carried out
within an urban development or ecological zoning plan or as part of an
approved development program, and for activities located in approved industrial
parks or for which environmental standards exist. For other activities, such as
those implemented following natural disasters, notification to SEMARNAP is
required (article 8 of the regulations).
6. The federal environmental law sets minimum standards that state or
municipal governments must adhere to. The federal law therefore establishes
minimum standards for environmental compliance in Mexico. Moreover, even
when regulated activities do not fall -xplicitly under federal jurisdiction,
SEMARNAP may issue a recommendation for environmental management to
the relevant state or municipal authority (federal law article 5, paragraph
XVIII). Thus, all levels of governme nt in Mexico must apply minimum
standards of environmental management.
7. In emergencies, when speed of response is critical, Mexican law permits
executing agencies to initiate works without prior consultation with
environmental authorities. However, within three days of initiating works,
executing agencies are required to inform SEMARNAP that works have started,
and within twenty days of initiating wvorks they must provide SEMARNAP with
a descriptive report on the types of works and associated mitigation and
compensation measures that will be undertaken (article 7 and 8 of regulations).
Mexican environmental regulations and sectoral guidelines
8. Mexico issued new environmental regulations in May 2000 reflecting
experiences gained through environmental impact assessments. The new
regulations give greater emphasis to the sound management of natural resources
(for example, forests, wild lands and arid zones), refine the types of
environmental impacts to be taken into account (for example, significant,
synergetic, cumulative and residual risks), provide for the issuance of sectoral
guidelines, provide more mechanisms for public consultation, citizen
participation and complaint, introduce new measures to ensure compliance with
environmental regulations (for example, liability insurance), simplify
environmental assessment procedures, and include specific guidance on
environmental permitting requiremenis in emergency situations.
9. In accordance with the new environmental regulations, eleven sectoral
guidelines for environmental assessment have been released for public comment
and are expected to be enacted soon (xeference
www.ine.gob.mx/dgoeia/impacto/guias.html). They provide details on
information required for informe preventivos and MLAs, including data
requirements, applicable regulations, types of impacts to be considered and the
like. Once they are enacted, the guidelines should help improve the quality of



environmental impact assessments. The eleven guidelines cover the following
sectors:
Energy (electricity generation, transmission and transportation):
Hydro, thermo and geoelectric
Wind and nuclear energy
Substations and transmission lines
Fishing and aquaculture:
Seeding and repopulation of water bodies
Production units at water bodies
Farms, labs and seed production centers
Water works:
Treatment, potable water, and desalting plants
Water infrastructure
Tourism:
Hotels, condominiums, marinas, decks
Beach restoration, ecotourism
Maritime and river works
Restaurants and the like
Wildlife exhibition centers, golf courses
Agriculture and cattle raising:
All crops and cattle raising activities that will result in land use change of
forest soil
Cattle raising infrastructure
Industry:
Production infrastructure
Risk activities and installations
Access infrastructure
Petroleum:
Marine infrastructure and activities
Land infrastructure and seismological activities
Ducts, warehouses, refining, petrochemical and other related industrial plants
Forestry:
Access roads
Production, warehouses, sanitary installations and camps
Water treatment plants
Mining:
Infrastructure, residue deposits, complementary works, leaching areas
Explosive storage
Surface mining
Roads and other communication infrastructure:
Roads and motorways
Rail and ports infrastructure



Airports and heliports
Hazardous waste:
Infrastructure construction
Reception and transfer centers
Storage of explosives
Provision for protected areas under Mexican law
10.     Works carried out in federa.l protected areas require SEMARNAP's
prior review regarding environmental impacts and authorization to proceed.
Management plans are one of the principal instruments for managing works in
these areas. Presently 21 out of 127 federal protected areas have management
plans. In protected areas where management plans exist, federal environmental
procedures require preparation of infrormes preventivos before works can be
undertaken. Activities that are exerr pt from environmental assessment
requirements include production for one's own consumption and domestic use
by settled communities, and activities necessary for conservation, maintenance
and enforcement. (article 5 S, regulations).
Provisions for cultural property
11.     Mexico has a rich cultural heritage and archeological, artistic and
historic sites are distributed widely throughout the country. Natural disasters
and subsequent reconstruction work may therefore uncover buried cultural
property, requiring the use of "chance find" procedures to ensure that qualified
personnel make decisions on the management of sites and materials. Natural
disasters may also damage cultural property (separate earthquakes striking
Oaxaca and Puebla in 1999 damaged important archeological sites and colonial
buildings), which requires properly planned and supervised stabilization or
restoration measures.
12.     Cultural property is highly v'alued in Mexico, and protected by national
law, institutions and practices. The federal law on archeological, artistic and
historic monuments and sites defines archeological, artistic and historic property
(articles 27 and 28) and specifies the authority and responsibilities of cultural
heritage agencies when sites or materials of cultural significance are discovered
during construction.
13.     The law grants responsibility to the National Institute of Anthropology
and History (INAH) for archeological and historic property, and to the National
Council of Fine Arts and Culture and the National Institute of Fine Arts and
Literature for artistic property. INAH1 and the National Institute of Fine Arts
and Literature both fall under the Ministry of Public Education. INAH has
offices in every state, and has over 400 researchers devoted to rescue activities.
14.     The law requires any party finding cultural property to report the
discovery to a local civil authority, which in turn must report the find to INAH
within 24 hours. The law further establishes INAH as the sole entity authorized
to excavate and research discoveries of cultural property (article 30), and
empowers INAH to suspend any works or activities carried out by
unnauthorized persons (article 32). [NAH may also impose fines and even



cause violators to be placed in preventive detention. Mexico's existing legal
and regulatory framework is therefore consistent with the Bank's guidance on
cultural heritage.
15.    The project will support FONDEN's programs to restore cultural
property damaged by natural disasters. Moreover, SEMARNAP would be
encouraged to help strengthen the synergies between measures to protect the
environment and those to protect cultural heritage by incorporating Mexican law
and regulations covering cultural property in the guidelines that it will develop
for handling environmental issues during emergencies (paragraph 48).
Public consultation
16.    The environmental law is based on the assumption that the federal
government will share responsibility with civil society in the planning,
execution, evaluation and enforcement of environmental and natural resource
policies. The new regulations for environmental assessment emphasize the
law's provisions related to public participation and the right to information.
They require that a list of all permit requests be published and that INE's
analysis of MIAs be made publicly available. The law also gives rights to any
member of the public to request public consultations on projects for which a
MIA is submitted to SEMARNAP.
17.    Once a project's sponsor submits an environmental impact assessment
(informe preventivo or manifestaci6n de impacto ambiental) and all the required
information to INE, a notification of the action is published in the official
ecological newsletter (Gaceta Ecol6gica, article 31 of the environmental law
and article 37 of the regulations).
18.    The project's sponsor submits a copy of the MIA to INE for public
consultation, containing all the information originally included in the report,
plus any additional information requested by INE. The project's sponsor must
disclose all information that is not protected by intellectual or commercial
rights.
19.    Any member of the public may obtain a copy of the MIA. If INE or
another interested party regards information excluded from the report as
relevant for public consultation, INE will ask the sponsor to justify its claim
regarding intellectual or commercial rights or else to include the information in
the copy of the report. INE has established an information center where people
can obtain information on the environmental aspects of projects, in accordance
with article 5, paragraph XVII of the environmental law. Any person or entity
who believes that the works or activities underway, covered by a MIA, exceed
the limits or conditions allowed for under the law or the environmental technical
norms (normas tecnicas ecol6gicas) is entitled to ask for a public consultation.
20.    INE will evaluate the environmental impact assessment and will
respond in no more than 30 working days. In the meantime, INE can demand
the suspension or closure of the activities or works when there is a risk of
environmental damage or risk to public health. However, public consultation is
at lINE's discretion, and therefore is not mandatory for all investments.



Institutional arrangements and capacity to implement environmental
protection procedures
21.    SEMARNAP consists of a series of subministries (such as Planning,
Natural Resources and Fisheries) and a series of autonomous agencies (such as
INE, PROFEPA, CNA, the National Fisheries Institute and the Mexican
Institute of Water Technology). For environmental impact assessments,
SEMARNAP evaluates environmental impacts of proposed activities; issues
authorizations; formulates, publishe; and disseminates guidelines for the
presentation of the diverse environrrental assessment documents required by the
regulations; conducts public consultations and hearings as required; and
supervises and enforces the regulations and corresponding resolutions.
SEMARNAP has over 30,000 staff, sixty percent of whom are based in state
delegations.
22.    INE is responsible for reviewing environmental impact assessments
and issuing permits for activities falling under federal jurisdiction. INE is an
autonomous agency attached to SEMARNAP. It has about 1,500 staff, of which
about 200 are assigned to state delegations. Many of these staff are university-
trained professionals. INE formulates, publishes and disseminates guidelines
for the presentation of various environmental assessment documents. fNE has
analyzed informes preventivos and inanifestaciones for 6,978 projects between
1990 and April 2000. About 96 percent of them were preventive reports and
environmental impact assessments ot'the then "general" type. About 73 percent
were approved, but only I percent without conditions. All the "specific" MIA's
were conditioned by the permit process, and 83 percent were rejected in the first
instance. During 1999, INE subjected about 1,050 projects to environmental
assessment. By June 2000 NE had subjected 700 new projects to
environmental assessment. Many of the projects were in forestry, roads,
communications and water works, sectors often affected by natural disasters.
23.    PROFEPA is responsible for overseeing and enforcing Mexican
environmental law and its regulations. PROFEPA has about 3,100 staff, of
which about 1,500 are based in its state delegations. Through its state offices it
carries out site inspections and penalizes the project sponsors in accordance
with the law. The percentage of serious violations that were sanctioned
declined from 26 percent in 1992 (when PROFEPA was established), to 2.1
percent in 1995 and to 1.6 percent in 1998. This may be interpreted as evidence
of increasing compliance with environmental regulations in Mexico.
24.     SEMARNAP, INE and PRCFEPA have central offices in-Mexico City
as well as state level offices. During the past few years, as part of the
decentralization process, government has been delegating increasing
responsibilities to state offices, which are developing capacity to carry them out.
Recently, it was decided to decentralize all activities related to environmental
impact assessments to regional offices, while retaining regulatory functions in
the central office. Many professional staff will move from the central to
regional offices in correspondence with the shift in responsibilities. A training
workshop to disseminate the new env[ronmental regulations and sectoral
guidelines was recently held for regional staff from SEMARNAP and state and



local government officials from 20 states. Funding for five additional training
programs (with 100 participants each) has been included in the 2001 budget.
25.    SEMARNAP has adequate capacity to ensure that executing agencies
comply with Mexico's federal environmental laws and regulations. It has many
years of experience and a large professional staff working in diverse aspects of
environmental management. Reinforcing this view, an ongoing Bank OED
study finds that SEMARNAP's environmental review and enforcement process
is generally operating satisfactorily (its agencies have benefited from
considerable Bank technical assistance through the Mexico Environmental
Management Project, Northern Border Environment Project, and Water
Resources Management Project). The study points out that the Bank's annual
reviews of Mexican environmental assessment have found a steady increase in
their quality and effectiveness.
Capacity assessment of implementing agencies for environmental
management
26.    The types of works most likely to be damaged in natural disasters
include roads and bridges, water works, community infrastructure, and farm
infrastructure. During project preparation, the Task Team assessed the capacity
and historical record of the various federal implementing agencies likely to be
involved with reconstructing works (directly or subcontracted) damaged through
a natural disaster.              'I
27.    For SCT, works typically include repair of roads and repair and
replacement of bridges following original alignments. Generally, SCT
incorporated improved design standards in the new works to improve their
safety (for example, for road drainage and bridges). For CNA, works typically
involved restoring potable water services, repairing sewage disposal facilities,
and repairing and improving flood control infrastructure and canals. In general,
SEDESOL coordinates and finances housing reconstruction, rather than
constructing housing itself. Typically, it finances self-construction housing kits,
or arranges for construction of housing estates in collaboration with state and
municipal authorities. SEDESOL's primary role is to identify beneficiaries and
ensure their participation in all pertinent decisions, and to assure that new
housing sites are suitable and safe. SAGAR, working through FIRCO and local
authorities, focuses on developing small watering points and other nonfarm
infrastructure to combat effects of drought, frost and floods. SAGAR also
informs farmers and promotes the use of species that are resistant to adverse
weather conditions. SEMARNAP focuses on sustainable natural resource
management. In collaboration with other federal, state and local entities, it acts
to prevent and fight forest fires. It also helps restore forests and protected areas
that have been damaged by natural disasters, removing debris, planting trees and
taking other restorative measures. SEP oversees and finances the repair and
reconstruction of public educational institutions by local authorities, with the
intention of restoring the quality of educational services. Through the National
Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) and the National Institute of Fine
Arts and Literature (INBA), it also finances repair and reconstruction of cultural
monuments. Finally, SSA, which does not execute works itself, contracts and
oversees reconstruction of health infrastructure, including clinics and public
hospitals. It also monitors the state of public health in stricken areas.



28.     Clearly, the complexity of the environmental issues to be addressed
varies greatly. Thus, CNA and SC1 generally deal with more complex
environmental issues than the other implementing agencies because they deal
with larger and more complex strucmures. In fact, the environmental
management capacity of the various agencies corresponds closely with their
direct environmental responsibilities, and the agencies have adequate capacity to
ensure environmental compliance. Both CNA and SCT have dedicated
environmental units (dealing with environmental impacts both under normal and
disaster conditions), while other agencies rely upon more general technical staff
or outsourcing for environmental expertise. In all cases, the executing agency
staff are aware of the requirements cf the environmental law and their
obligations to comply with environmental regulations. They are also keen to
receive additional training and information concerning environmental issues
related to disaster episodes. Local althorities responsible for disaster
management express similar views.
29.     The vast majority of reconstruction activities following natural
disasters involves restoration of small infrastructure at its original site, which
cause minor environmental impacts and are not controversial (similar to
environmental category C). Occasionally, it is decided to expand capacity (for
example, water treatment), relocate infrastructure (either to improve its
resilience or to provide community services such as houses, schools and
clinics), or undertake work in protecled areas. These activities may affect the
environment (similar to category B). The negative list below excludes category
A activities for financing under the project.
Environmental assessment procedures for subprojects financed by the
Bank
Negative list
30.     The project will not finance any subproject which will be classified as
category A under the Bank's EA policy, or subprojects which are implemented
in violation of Mexico's environmental laws and environmental impact
assessment procedures, or Mexico's laws on treatment of cultural heritage.
Specifically, subprojects involving the, following activities will be excluded
from financing:
Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening.
Activities affecting natural protected areas recognized by federal, state or
municipal governments (or buffer zones thereof), other than as required to
mitigate damage caused by a natural disaster.
Land reclamation (such as drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to
create land).
Land clearance and leveling (when affecting critical natural habitats and
natural land contours, natural habitats for this purpose being those water or
land areas where most of the original plant and animal species are still
present), except for clearing of debris resulting from an emergency. (For



more details on critical natural habitats, Bank Operating Policy (OP) 4.04
can be consulted at www.worldbank.org).
Hazardous waste management and disposal as well as manufacture,
transport and use of pesticides and other hazardous and/or toxic materials
(except small amounts of solvents, degreasing materials, paints, fuels, and
the like used during construction).
River training (such as realignment, contraction or deepening of an existing
river channel, or excavation of a new river channel).
Activities involving industrial plants (large-scale) and industrial estates.
New road construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads ("major"
means changing the road category, such as from seasonal to all-weather or
secondary to primary; adding new lanes; or changing road surface).
New irrigation, drainage and flood control works.
(a) Activities which, when being carried out, will affect, or involve the use
of, water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which
flow through or are bordered by countries other than Mexico, in such a
manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water
flowing to or bordering said countries; and (b) activities involving the
installation or construction of facilities which, when operated after their
construction or installation, will affect, or involve the use of, water of rivers
or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are
bordered by countries other than Mexico, in such a manner as to in any way
adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering
said countries (unless such bordering countries have formally expressed in
writing to the Bank and to the Guarantor their no-objection to the activities
referred to in (a) or (b) herein).
Activities relating to forestry production.
Development of new, or expansion of existing, ports and harbors.
Aquaculture and mariculture activities.
River basin development activities.
Development of new, or expansion of existing, thermal power and
hydropower facilities.
Positive list
31.     Subprojects for the following activities will be eligible for financing
under the project:
Repair or reconstruction of streets, roads, bridges, ports or harbors damaged
by the natural disaster in question.



Re-establishment of telecommunications infrastructure damaged by the
natural disaster in question.
Re-establishment of urban or nLral solid waste, water supply and sanitation
(including urban drainage) infrastructure damaged by the natural disaster in
question.
Repair, re-equipment, reconstruction or construction of homes, schools,
clinics, hospitals or other comm.unity structures following a natural disaster.
Repair of works of cultural significance damaged by the natural disaster.
Removal and disposal of debris resulting from the natural disaster in
question (but only if such removal and disposal is not an end in itself but
constitutes an integral part of an infrastructure repair, reconstruction or re-
establishment activity included .n the project).
Restoration of the productive assets, danaged by the natural disaster, of
uninsured low-income producenr.
Replacement, with similar speci -s, of vegetation destroyed by the natural
disaster.
Restoration and mitigation activ ties in response to damage caused by a
natural disaster to federal, state, or municipal natural protected areas or their
buffer zones.
Policy and institutional developrient activities related to reduction of risks
arising from natural forces and institutional capacity development.
Environmental review procedures
32.     Because of the need for rapid response following a natural disaster,
FONDEN-financed subprojects initiated within a pcriod extending from 15 days
prior to and 180 days following the declaration of an emergency by SEGOB are
exempt from the requirements of the Bank's OP 4.01 regarding (a) ex-ante
environmental screening and Bank prior review, and (b) ex-ante public
consultation. They are subject to the normal environmental review and public
consultation procedures prescribed by, the competent authorities (at federal, state
or local levels) under Mexican law.
33.     The exemption from Bank prior review cited in paragraph 32 does not
apply to subprojects that take place in protected areas which lack official
management plans, or where major works, major re-siting, or significant
capacity expansion is contemplated (paragraph 36).
34.     All prevention studies and capacity building will be Bank
environmental assessment category C activities. They are not subject to any
special environmental review or reporting requirements.



35.    Evidence for the adequate application of these procedures will be
required by the Bank through selected prior review (paragraph 36) and ex-post
monitoring and supervision (paragraphs 41-46).
Prior review requirements
36.    All subprojects meeting the following criteria will be subject to prior
review by the Bank:
Works subprojects costing more than US$3.0 million
Activities to mitigate natural disaster damage in a protected area (and buffer
zones) included in the federal, state or municipal system of protected areas
for which an official management plan has not been issued, unless the
activity is specifically exempted from permitting requirements under federal
environmental regulations.
Costing more than US$2.0 million, and involving reestablishment or
reconstruction of infrastructure at a site different from the site originally
occupied by the infrastructure before it was damaged by the natural disaster
in question.
Costing more than US$1.0 million, and involving repair, reestablishment or
reconstruction of infrastructure in such a way that the resulting
infrastructure will have a production output capacity greater than 10 percent
(such as in the case of a water treatment plant, using a measurement of
treated water volume per unit of time), and/or a service capacity greater than
10 percent (such as in the case of a school or clinic, using as measurement
the number of classrooms or beds) than the original infrastructure.
Reporting
37.    On a monthly basis BANOBRAS will inform SEMARNAP and
competent state environmental authorities of all FONDEN-financed activities
supported by the loan for which contracts have been awarded.
38.    SEMARNAP and state environmental authorities will designate
specific staff to liaise with BANOBRAS concerning information on FONDEN-
financed activities.
39.    SEMARNAP will disclose through its electronic media the
environmental information for FONDEN-financed activities drawn from the
"under 20 day after work initiation" reports and such other relevant
environmental reports filed by executing agencies in compliance with
environmental regulations.
40.    SEMARNAP will produce and give the Bank through BANOBRAS an
annual report while the project is under implementation, showing as a minimum
on a state and national basis. (a) number of reconstruction subprojects that were
reported under Article 8 of the regulations; with sectoral breakdown, (b) number
of subprojects for which an informe preventivo was prepared or a MIA was
carried out, with a breakdown by sector and by the type of study (in forme



preventivo, specific or regional MIA); (c) percentage rejected or withdrawn on
environmental grounds with sectoral breakdown; (d) results of PROFEPA's
supervision and control activities, including the number by sector of subprojects
visited, and the degree of compliance (fines, closures, etc.) under existing
environmental regulations and standards, including Article 8 of the Reglamento;
(e) results from public disclosure, including number and sectoral breakdown,
those with public comments, those :ubject to public hearings, resulting
additional environmental measures, etc. The report will also include
information on positive environmertal impacts of the project, including use of
improved construction and other risk avoidance practices, better land use,
reforestation and revegetation and similar measures following a disaster to
reduce vulnerability to natural evenims. Finally, the report will evaluate the
extent to which emergencies in Mexico are precipitated or exacerbated by
inappropriate environmental practices and propose remediation measures to be
undertaken.
Monitoring and supervision
41.     As a continuation to pre-Board consultations with interested and
affected parties, a workshop will rev iew this EMP with executing agencies and
other stakeholders. These will include representatives from the executing
agencies, the various state fideicomisos, and local NGOs. This EMP will also
be placed in Spanish on the Bank's Mexico Website.
42.     Two routine supervision missions will be planned each year, in the
spring and fall. Each mission will focus on (a) FONDEN performance, (b) INE
and PROFEPA performance in applving the environmental assessment
procedures, (c) executing agencies' performance in addressing environmental
issues in design and implementation of subprojects, (d) progress with prevention
and capacity building activities; (e) procurement and financial management
issues; and (f) environmental and social impacts of subprojects, both
individually and cumulatively, and the adequacy of safeguard procedures agreed
for the project. Mission members will be drawn from Mexican or Washington-
based Bank staff or consultants with appropriate skills. Since the Mexico field
office has procurement and financial management specialists on its staff, these
issues will be dealt with on an ongoing basis, leaving only special issues to be
addressed during supervision missions. Specialists will visit selected sites of
subprojects to assess the environmental and social impacts of subprojects and
the adequacy of safeguard procedures agreed for the project. They will also
evaluate the extent to which the emergency was precipitated or exacerbated by
inappropriate environmental practices and propose remediation measures to be
included in the project.
43.     Climatological disasters normally occur seasonally, with floods and
hurricanes occurring during July-December, and droughts and forest fires
occurring during January-June. Therefore, the skill mix of environmental field
staff will vary depending on the season. The fall supervision mission will focus
on response to fires and droughts, and general institutional performance in
applying this EMP under the project. The spring mission will focus on response
to floods and hurricanes, and budgetary issues for the forthcoming Mexican
fiscal year. Effects of episodic geological events (major earthquake or volcanic
eruption) will be reviewed in the fielcl as needed.



44.    The midterm review will consider especially (a) any changes which
should be introduced into the project's EMP or resettlement framework to better
mitigate emergencies arising from inappropriate environmental practices and
apply the Bank's safeguard policies during project execution, (b) ways to
modify the EMP's prior review triggers to reflect the magnitude of the
anticipated environmental and social impacts from the proposed interventions,
rather than to reflect size alone; and (c) the adequacy of the eligibility period
used to define expenditures to be in included under the project (paragraph 1).
46.    The implementation completion report will, among other aspects,
evaluate the effectiveness of executing agencies in addressing environmental
and social issues, and draw lessons for improvements in design and
implementation of similar projects. It will also include an analysis of the
adequacy of the instruments used to apply Bank safeguard policies during
project execution.
Capacity development
47.    While SEMARNAP and its agencies have adequate staff and capacity,
continuing efforts will be needed to build the environmental assessment review
and enforcement capacity of the state offices,of INE and PROFEPA, to ensure
they can carry out their new responsibilities. SEMARNAP's senior
management has named natural disaster prevention and mitigation a high
priority for the Ministry, and has committed to provide up to US$1.5 million per
year of additional resources to meet this objective and ensure that Bank-
financed subprojects are implemented in compliance with Mexican
environmental law and its regulations. It will obtain these resources either by
reallocating SEMARNAP resources or from SHCP as part of its budgets for
2001 and subsequent years. Moreover, SEMARNAP has expressed interest in
benefiting from the capacity building component of the project. It has already
requested assistance to develop risk maps showing areas of forest fire risk. It
has also indicated a need for additional computer equipment for use by its
environmental assessment staff in state offices, and field equipment for use by
its forestry and fisheries inspectorates. It is expected that SEMARNAP will
define other needs to deal with the special environmental issues associated with
disaster management, especially with risk mapping. Mapping initiatives will be
facilitated by ongoing actions to conform SEDESOL's land use zoning program
with SEMARNAP's ecological zoning program, thereby providing a better basis
for environmental assessment and siting decisions for structures.
48.    The possibility of developing a special guide outlining procedures for
handling environmental and social issues arising from natural disasters and
defining works to be subject to hazard and impact assessment and related
procedures is under consideration. This guide will also specify procedures to be
followed for "chance find" cultural property. Training courses associated with
this guide will include the agencies that participate at the technical committees
of the various fideicomisos that manage FONDEN resources in all states of the
country.



APPENDIX 1
Table 1: Environmental screening: Objectives and actions
Design phase review                                       Implementation phase monitoring
Objective:                                                Objective:
Ensure that the project will not have negative environmental  Ensure that the conditions of environmental
impacts                                                   permit are met by the executing agency
Whiat wiii be done?                                       What will be done?
- Review environmental impacts submissions                - Monitor implementation of permit conditions,
- Identifv mitigation measures, if any, to be undertaken during    including mitigation measures, during subproject
construction                                              execution
- Issue environmental permit with or without conditions, or
reject submission
Who is responsible?
[NE staff in state and central offices                    Who is responsible?
PROFEPA



APPENDIX 2
Table 1. Public complaints processed by PROFEPA during 1999.
Affected resource                             Total complaints                       Percent
Forest                                                            1559                                 29
Air                                                                948                                 17
Flora                                                              758                                 14
Fauna                                                              717                                 13
Water                                                              332                                  6
Fishing                                                            169                                  3
Maritime-terrestrial federal Zone                                  128                                  2
Ecological ordering                                                 90                                  2
Environmental Impact                                                87                                  2
TOTAL                                                            5,425                                100
Source: PROFEPA. vvxv.profepa.gob.mx/denuncia4.htm
Table 2. PROFEPA's activities for supervision and enforcement of environmental regulations
1995      1996       1997       1998       1999      20001
Environmental impact
Impact verification                     389        538        367       687       1.061       628
Projects lacking authorization          180        293        103         18       279         84
Projects wvith authorization, but out of  198      250         39        164       201        112
standards
Closure due to irregularities            23         21         47         45        32         33
Contingencies
On natural resources                     38         50         46         38        55         27
Anthropogenic                             17        23         23         14         15          6
Natural                                   15        21         10         18        24          15



Undetermined origin                     6         6         9         6         16         6
Public Complaints
Received                            5,206      6,429     5,565     5,173     5,420     3,234
Attended                            3,641      3,203     4,449     3,892     3,280     2,168
In process                           1,565     3,226     1,116     1,281     2,140     1,066
1. Estimate to August 31
Source: PROFEPA, Presidential Report, September 2000



