Report No. PID8096
Project Name                     Mexico-Natural Disaster Management (@)
Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Environment
Project ID                       MXPE64887
Borrower(s)                      BANOBRAS
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(SHCP)
Subsecretaria de Egresos
Constituyentes No. 1001
Edificio C-3, Sexto Nivel
Col. Belen de Las Flores
Contact Person: Lic. Antonio Alvarado
Ramirez, Jefe de La Unidad
Tel: 228-49-15
Fax: 228-49-62
Email: jalvarad@sse.gob.mx
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 31, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 19, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 5, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
In terms of geography and climate, Mexico is one of the most diverse
countries in the world. It is susceptible to a wide range of natural
disasters such as floods, droughts, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, fires
and tropical cyclones. These natural events can cause widespread loss of
life and damage to economic infrastructure because of the country's
settlement patterns, construction practices and a lack of disaster
response capacity.Since 1980 direct damage from natural disasters in
Mexico totaled some US$11.1 billion, and some 8,000 people have lost their
lives. Apart from the direct losses, disasters disrupt the development
process because the need for emergency and reconstruction financing
diverts budgetary resources from their originally intended uses,
disrupting priority investment programs. For example, in recent years, an
estimated 30 percent of government funding for World Bank infrastructure
projects in Mexico was diverted to respond to emergencies.Moreover, in
Mexico as in other developing countries, the poor are disproportionately
affected by natural disasters. According to assessments of the National
Center for Disaster Prevention (CENAPRED), 68 percent of people affected
by natural disasters in Mexico are poor and extremely poor. Many lower
income people live in substandard housing that is less able to withstand
natural forces than housing of the better off. Some live in high density
settlements near cities, built on steep slopes vulnerable to landslides.
Others live in low lying areas and are at risk of flooding. The poor also
have less access to resources to help them recover from physical losses



than others, and therefore can suffer permanent setbacks from natural
disasters. They are less likely to have savings, insurance or access to
credit which could help them finance reconstruction costs. They are also
more likely to lose their source of livelihood because they earn their
living from small agricultural plots which are themselves damaged by the
natural disasters. During crises poor children are also more likely to
suffer malnutrition and health problems, and frequently drop out of
school. These can lead to chronic poverty. The Mexican government is
well aware of the country's vulnerability to risks from natural hazards,
and has taken important steps to reduce their impacts on lives and
property. These include: The development of disaster preparedness and
civil defense programs led by the Secretariat of Government (SEGOB) and
the Secretariat of Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries
(SEMARNAP), and implemented through the Civil Defense System (SINAPROC)The
establishment in 1996 of the Fund for Natural Disasters (FONDEN) at the
federal level, as a last resort source of financing for reconstruction of
public infrastructure, restoration of protected areas, purchase of
emergency response equipment, and disaster relief. The establishment of
CENAPRED as a center for research and diffusion of mitigation
technologies; andThe provision of support for university-based research on
risk assessment and modeling (for example, at the National Autonomous
University of Mexico (UNAM))Federal agencies, (including SEGOB,
Secretariat of Communications and Transportation (SCT), Secretariat of
Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR), Secretariat for
Social Development (SEDESOL), SEMARNAP, Secretariat of Public Education
(SEP), Secretariat of Health (SSA), and the National Water Commission
(CNA)) and state or municipal governments execute the emergency activities
and reconstruction works. Ongoing disaster management activities have
helped establish an important knowledge and institutional base for
disaster preparedness, mitigation and reconstruction, especially for
seismic and hydrometeorological events affecting major cities. However,
this knowledge and institutional base needs to be expanded to cover other
hazards (such as forest fires) and vulnerable regions of the country.
Financing of reconstruction following natural disasters also needs to be
more efficient and effective, for example through better use of risk
transfer instruments by both the private and public sectors. Moreover,
while government agencies do include actions to prevent damage from
natural forces, these need to be made more systematic.Following experience
with the first two years of FONDEN's operations, the Mexican government
reviewed FONDEN's operational practices, with a view to making them more
effective. As part of these efforts, in mid-1998 the government requested
Bank assistance to improve its management of natural disasters. In
response, the Bank undertook a study examining how the government was
managing natural disasters, both in terms of preparedness and mitigation,
as well as risk financing and transfer. This study was discussed in a
February 1999 workshop attended by stakeholders from government, academia
and the private sector. The study found that:In Mexico, only about 10
percent of private property was insured. Moreover, there was need to
develop better mechanisms (for example, insurance pools) to make
non-earthquake catastrophic insurance more widely available. It is likely
that privately-purchased catastrophic risk coverage will increase only
slowly, in concert with the growth of per capita income and a "culture of
safety" in the society, and the introduction of new insurance products.
Thus, government will continue to bear a large share of risks from natural
hazards in the near and medium-terms. Insurance companies could provide
- 2 -



incentives for insured parties to adopt measures to reduce losses through
their underwriting and monitoring practices. Accordingly, adoption of a
policy requiring government entities to insure public properties could be
a powerful means for encouraging adoption of prevention measures, thereby
reducing public sector losses in the event of natural disasters. As a
result of the review of FONDEN's operations, the Government decided to
take several steps to improve FONDEN's operating policies and practices to
clarify its responsibilities, improve its decision processes and make them
more transparent, define the risks assumed by FONDEN, and find ways to
help it meet disasters whose costs exceed FONDEN's resources. Following
consultations with a broad range of stakeholders and the Bank, in March
1999 the government modified FONDEN's operating guidelines to (a) make
FONDEN's decision rules for access to resources and the loss assessment
process clearer and more transparent; (b) limit the moral hazard faced by
FONDEN, by encouraging greater use of private insurance by FONDEN's
beneficiaries, and establishing clear cost-sharing formulas for FONDEN's
financing of disaster losses falling under the responsibility of state and
municipal governments; and (c) encourage adoption of prevention measures,
both within the reconstruction programs financed by FONDEN and in the
regular investment programs of FONDEN's beneficiaries. These policies and
practices are being formalized through voluntary agreements between the
federal and state governments (and the Federal District), setting out the
rights and responsibilities of the parties, including their acceptance of
FONDEN's rules. Each agreement will lead to the establishment of a trust
(fideicomiso mixto estatal or FME) between the federal government and the
respective state (or the Federal District) within which the agreed shares
of financing to be paid by the various parties will be blended to achieve
the agreed cost-sharing targets for disaster relief and reconstruction
activities. Under the terms of each trust, which are administered by
BANOBRAS as trustee, spending decisions and the contracting of eligible
emergency activities will be made by a technical committee comprising
state and municipal representatives, acting with advice from federal
entities. These measures are expected to increase transparency,
accountability and efficiency in the use of FONDEN's resources, and
redistribute the costs of natural disasters between the various levels of
government and the private sector, and over time reduce the share of such
costs borne by the public sector.By the end of January 2000, 27 states (of
32 states plus the Federal District) had signed trust agreements with
FONDEN. In addition, SEGOB and FONDEN were providing intensive training
to state and municipal officials on FONDEN's objectives and procedures.
Both SEGOB and FONDEN have learned important lessons during the first year
applying the 1999 guidelines, including lessons from the operations of
different technical committees. These lessons include the importance of
providing financing for early warning systems and reconstruction of
damaged national cultural property, the need to further decentralize
decision-making authority, the need to apply good resettlement practices,
and the need to develop uniform standards for insuring public property.
Revised FONDEN guidelines were issued in February 2000 reflecting the
emerging lessons. The government is continuing to explore best use of
FONDEN resources and is seeking Bank participation in the learning
process. Areas of particular interest are whether and how how to employ
reinsurance and capital market instruments to finance FONDEN expenditures
more efficiently, and analytical methods to set priorities for public
investment in prevention activities. It is therefore likely that during
the project period the Government will continue to seek ways to improve
-3 -



the policy and institutional framework for disaster management in Mexico.
2. Objectives
The project will help reduce human, economic and financial costs of
natural disasters in Mexico by (a) providing resources for rapid recovery
following natural disasters within a framework of sound budget management;
and (b) reducing the likelihood that natural forces will result in loss of
life and infrastructure damage by supporting policy and instituional
reforms aimed at reducing vulnerability and risk and improving government
capacity for analyzing natural disaster risk.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In Mexico Bank resources accrue to the Treasury and government agencies
have access only to resources distributed to them through the annual
public budget. Currently, federal agencies that agree to implement
Bank-supported projects may have to undertake them with no additional
budgets. Under these conditions knowledge transfer is a major
contribution of the Bank. Thus, it makes sense for the Bank to
concentrate its efforts in areas where the Borrower can benefit from Bank
knowledge and expertise. One such area is natural disaster management.
In 1998 the Bank established the Disaster Management Facility (DMF) to
ensure that its knowledge, expertise and ability to attract world class
partners is used to assist developing countries--where 95 percent of
deaths from natural disasters occur. The DMF and collaborating Bank Group
units are well equipped to help Mexico find ways to increase protection,
reduce environmental degradation contributing to disasters, identify and
implement prevention measures, and devise ways to share natural disaster
risks with the private sector. The DMF's expertise has already been drawn
upon for the design of the project. During project implementation the
Bank will be able to provide Mexican counterparts with expert advice
through the DMF and the newly-established ProVention Consortium,
comprising government and business leaders, international agencies,
non-governmental organizations, academic institutions, and others.
Recognizing the Bank's capacity to mobilize expertise in natural disaster
management, the government requested assistance in refining FONDEN
operations. It also requested help in developing methodologies for
defining prevention programs and assistance in understanding its options
to use risk transfer instruments more widely.A Japanese PHRD grant has
financed studies and technical assistance to begin developing the
framework for identifying priority prevention programs, so that
investments generate the greatest return for the resources spent. The
grant is also supporting research on options for financing post-disaster
reconstruction costs including FONDEN's role as part of the financing
system, work to develop risk maps for forest fires, a review of the
municipal operations of the National System for Civil Protection
(SINAPROC), and development of a methodology for hazard mapping at the
municipal level to support preparation of prevention programs. It is
expected that further studies will be carried out through the prevention
and capacity building components of the project, and that in the medium
term these will lead to formulation of public investment programs for
prevention works.
4. Description
The project will finance subprojects acceptable to the Bank. It is
expected to be committed in three calendar years (years 2001-03) and
- 4 -



disbursed in about four years. It will support three components: (1)
investments in prevention studies, (2) investments in post-disaster
emergency recovery and reconstruction activities, and (3) capacity
building activities.    Component 1: Prevention studiesThis component will
finance analytical, design and policy-related studies aimed at reducing
economic and human losses in the event of a natural disaster. Prevention
activities will be executed through federal agencies as part of their
annual investment programs. Participating federal agencies will be SHCP,
SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP and SSA. At the
start of each (Mexican) fiscal year SHCP will agree with the Bank and the
executing agencies upon the prevention studies that the project will
finance. Such studies will be selected and implemented in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures, and technical criteria
acceptable to the Bank. These criteria will be included in the project's
operating manual. Component 2: Emergency recovery and emergency
reconstruction investmentsThis component will support emergency recovery
and reconstruction activities financed through FONDEN and executed either
through federal agencies or state and municipal agencies financed through
fideicomisos mixtos estatales (FMEs). Only FONDEN-financed activities
initiated within 15 days before and 180 days following the declaration of
an emergency by SEGOB will be eligible for Bank financing. Emergency
recovery activities are defined for purposes of the project as those
activities initiated within 15 days before and 45 days after the
declaration of an emergency by SEGOB. These activities are subject to
expedited procurement procedures. Reconstruction activities are defined
for purposes of the project as those initiated between 45 days and 180
days following the declaration of an emergency. Reconstruction
investments will be selected and implemented in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines and procedures, and environmental, social and
technical criteria acceptable to the Bank. Eligible emergency recovery
and reconstruction expenditures include net-of-tax FONDEN expenditures for
activities that satisfy the environmental criteria included in Annex 11,
except for cash compensation paid to producers, purchases of equipment for
disaster preparedness, relief assistance, land, and activities not
constituting investments. Component 3: Capacity building activitiesThis
component will finance activities to strengthen capacity of SHCP,
SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP and SSA to respond
to natural disasters, manage social, cultural and environmental issues
arising from natural disasters, and use insurance and other risk transfer
instruments. It is envisaged that this component will help develop a
framework to help sectoral implementing agencies identify priority
prevention investments for inclusion in their annual programs. At the
start of each (Mexican) fiscal year SHCP will agree with the Bank and the
executing agencies upon capacity building activities that the project will
finance. Such investments will be selected and implemented in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures and technical
criteria acceptable to the Bank. These criteria will be included in the
project's operating manual.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       254.30
IBRD                             404.05
IDA
Total Project Cost               658.35
-5-



6. Implementation
Project implementation period. The project will be implemented over four
calendar years, 2001-2004. It is expected that the loan will be fully
committed in three years and will be fully disbursed by December 31, 2004.
Project coordination and oversight. SHCP will establish a project
coordinating committee (PCC), and assume the role of overall project
coordination. This PCC will comprise representatives from SHCP,
SEGOB/CENAPRED, and BANOBRAS. SHCP will chair the PCC. Representatives
from the FMEs and other implementing agencies will be invited when
warranted. The PCC will monitor progress of project implementation based
on technical and financial information received from BANOBRAS and the
implementing and auditing agencies. A staff member of SHCP has been
designated to be project coordinator. He will serve as the principal
point of contact with the Bank and will provide progress reports to the
government and the Bank through BANOBRAS.Executing agencies. SHCP,
SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP and SSA will
execute prevention and capacity-building activities as part of their
normal work programs. These same federal agencies and those state and
municipal agencies which are FONDEN's beneficiaries (financed through
FMEs) will execute emergency recovery and reconstruction activities. The
FMEs and the federal implementing agencies will provide technical and
monitoring data to the project coordinator through BANOBRAS. Project
administration. BANOBRAS as the government's financial agent (and
building on its responsibilities as trustee for the FMEs) will exercise
key administrative and quality control functions. It will oversee
financial management, procurement, disbursement and audit arrangements for
the project, and inform federal and state environmental authorities of
FONDEN-financed activities. BANOBRAS will collect technical and financial
data from the FMEs and the federal implementing agencies, and provide them
to the project coordinator. BANOBRAS will screen expenditures which are
not subject to Bank prior review (such as those for emergency recovery
activities) ex-post for eligibility for Bank financing. Procurement
arrangements. Based on experience with procuring contracts under
emergency conditions in Mexico, and the fact that monitoring of contracts
not requiring prior review by the Bank will be done through sampling,
there is a risk that contracts not satisfying the definition of emergency
activities as defined above will be included in the emergency component
and procured through direct contracting. This may be especially true in
the case of contracts financed through the FMEs, which may be procured
through state and local agencies with little familiarity with Bank
procurement requirements. The procurement risk for this project is
therefore rated as high. In order to mitigate this procurement risk, the
following arrangements have been agreed with the Borrower: (a)
Procurement of goods, works and services would be carried out by the
federal agencies with experience in procurement under Bank financed
projects, namely SHCP, CNA, SSA, SEP, SCT, SEMARNAP, SAGAR, SEGOB (through
CENAPRED), and SEDESOL). In the case of those FONDEN-financed
expenditures that are contracted by nonfederal agencies through the FMEs,
the federal agencies previously cited will be responsible for carrying out
the procurement process, even though other agencies sign the final
contracts; (b) BANOBRAS will ensure quality control of all procurement
processes, liaise with the Bank and the executing agencies, organize and
maintain procurement records, draft quarterly reports, and be responsible
for project accounting, financial reporting, and compliance with audit and
environmental requirements agreed under the project. BANOBRAS will also
- 6 -



review and issue no objections for all procurement contracts not subject
to Bank prior review before signature by the contracting agency. The Loan
Agreement will assign these responsibilities to BANOBRAS, which will
retain adequate staff for this purpose; (c) A justification for the use
of direct contracting in emergency activities will be required and will be
maintained on file. Such justification will clearly establish a causal
relationship between the specific emergency and the need for the direct
contract   Every quarter a copy of the justifications will be sent to the
Bank by BANOBRAS. The project will include annual procurement audits of
selected contracts, particularly those awarded on a sole source basis as a
result of any specific emergency; and (d) During the first year of the
project, BANOBRAS will implement a training program through which at least
two staff members from each of its state delegations will receive training
in Bank procurement procedures.Accounting, financial reporting and
auditing arrangements. Disaster recovery and reconstruction projects
cofinanced with resources from FONDEN, states, and municipalities are
financed through FMEs established in each of the affected states. The FMEs
will maintain separate accounts for each disaster and will prepare
statements of their respective sources and uses of funds (disaggregated by
budget category) and balance sheets showing their financial condition.
BANOBRAS, as their trustee, will maintain budget and financial accounts
for each of these FMEs, which will be subject to annual audits acceptable
to the Bank. For disaster reconstruction of purely federal assets, and
prevention and capacity building activities implemented by federal
agencies, the respective federal agencies will maintain budget accounts
and supporting documentation in accordance with federal budget and
accounting procedures. BANOBRAS, in its role as financial agent and
trustee for the FMEs, will establish a consolidated project account which
reflects budget allocations and expenditures for all project activities,
and will arrange to receive copies of documents (for procurement review,
preparation of SOEs, and the like) to support disbursement requests to the
Bank. The project accounts maintained by BANOBRAS will also be subject to
annual audits acceptable to the Bank. For purposes of carrying out the
project, a Special Account will be opened and maintained by BANOBRAS on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into the Special
Account and corresponding replenishments, up to the authorized allocations
set out in the Disbursement Letter, will be based initially on Withdrawal
Applications accompanied by supporting documentation as specified in the
Disbursement Handbook (traditional procedure based on SOEs). A financial
management assessment was carried out during project preparation. The
classification of the project for FMI purposes is based upon the judgment
that while the project's financial management system is basically sound,
reporting systems cannot immediately generate PMRs. Accordingly, a
time-bound action plan for improving reporting systems has been agreed
with the Borrower. By October 31, 2001 the Borrower and the Guarantor
will complete the action plan aimed at preparing quarterly PMRs. The
possible migration to PMR-based disbursements will be analyzed by the
Bank, the Borrower, and the Guarantor during the second year of project
implementation. Once the accounting and financial management systems of
the federal executing agencies and BANOBRAS as trustee are deemed
compliant with the Bank's Financial Management Initiative (FMI)
requirements, and are certified as such by the Bank, migration to a
project management report-based (PMR) disbursement system may be
implemented.Accounting systems in the implementing agencies will operate
in accordance with the "Financial, Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing
- 7 -



Handbook," dated January 1995 and published by the World Bank. The annual
audit of the project will be carried out in line with both (a) the
"Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with financing
by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean Region" dated May
1999, and (b) the Technical Memorandum of Understanding agreed between the
Bank and SECODAM in 2000. Terms of reference for annual audits of project
accounts and specific arrangements related to auditors have been agreed.
Audits will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
in accordance with international audit standards. The report of such
auditors will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
end of the Borrower's fiscal year. Reporting. Different entities are
responsible for reporting on various aspects of the project. All reports
will be submitted to the Bank through BANOBRAS.The PCC will prepare
progress reports every six months. No later than six months after the
project closing date, the Guarantor will prepare and provide to the Bank a
report on the execution of the project, its costs, and current and future
benefits to be derived from it.SEMARNAP (with input from INE and PROFEPA)
will produce an annual report on the environmental aspects of the
project.SEDESOL will report on resettlement every six monthsthe Guarantor
and BANOBRAS will provide quarterly project management reports acceptable
to the Bank, in agreement with the financial management action
plan.Project operating manual. The project operating manual will contain
technical and legal documents pertaining to the project, management and
implementation arrangements, FONDEN's guidelines, criteria for selecting
prevention and capacity building activities, disbursement and procurement
procedures and samples of standard procurement documents, audit
requirements and terms of reference for external auditors, the
environmental management plan and resettlement framework, monitoring
indicators and reporting requirements.Supervision. The Bank will devote
an estimated 100 staff weeks to supervise progress under the Bank loan
through fiscal 2005. Two routine supervision missions will be planned each
year, in the spring and fall. Each mission will focus on (a) FONDEN
performance; (b) progress with prevention and capacity building
activities; (c) procurement and financial management issues; and (d)
environmental and social impacts of subprojects, on an individual and a
cumulative basis, the extent to which various emergencies were
precipitated or exacerbated by inappropriate environmental practices, and
the adequacy of safeguard procedures agreed for the project. Mission
members will be drawn from Mexican or Washington-based Bank staff or
consultants with appropriate skills.    Since the Mexico field office has
procurement and financial management specialists on its staff, these
issues will be dealt with on an ongoing basis, leaving only special issues
to be addressed during supervision missions.Climatological disasters
normally occur seasonally, with floods and hurricanes occurring during
July-December, and droughts and forest fires occurring during January-
June. Therefore, the skill mix of environmental field staff will vary
depending on the season. The fall supervision mission will focus on
response to fires and droughts, and general institutional performance in
applying this EMP under the project. The spring mission will focus on
response to floods and hurricanes, and budgetary issues for the
forthcoming Mexican fiscal year. Effects of episodic geological events
(major earthquake or volcanic eruption) will be reviewed in the field as
needed. The midterm review will include (a) an analysis of the progress
made towards achieving the project's objectives and the degree to which
they remain valid; (b) an assessment of the adequacy of treatment of
- 8 -



environmental, cultural, and social issues under the project, including
those arising from resettlement; (c) identification of any changes which
should be introduced into the project's EMP or resettlement framework in
order to better mitigate emergencies arising from inappropriate
environmental practices and apply the Bank's safeguard policies during
project execution; (d) consideration of ways to modify the EMP's triggers
for prior review by the Bank to reflect the magnitude of the anticipated
environmental and social impacts from the proposed interventions, and not
size alone, and (f) the adequacy of the eligibility period used to define
expenditures to be included under the project.    The implementation
completion report mission will evaluate the overall success of the project
relative to its objectives, the effectiveness of executing agencies in
addressing environmental and social issues, and draw lessons for
improvements in design and implementation of similar projects. The
implementation completion report will include an analysis of the adequacy
of the instruments used to apply Bank safeguard policies during project
execution.Monitoring. Overall project monitoring will be based on
indicators that the Bank and its Borrowing country counterparts have
together selected to enable FONDEN and other participating agencies to
measure the success of their programs, including the activities supported
by the project. The indicators will be included in the project's
operating manual.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of project benefits will depend on government
establishing an ongoing process of identifying and implementing annual
prevention investments, providing incentives to public entities to insure
properties against natural disaster risks and setting up a system of
post-disaster financing which is efficient and effective.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Previous Bankwide experience with disaster reconstruction projects shows
that for authorities to act quickly, flexible procurement procedures must
be in place, and implementing agencies should have a clear definition of
their roles and responsibilities. It also shows that victims of disasters
must be involved in decisions which affect them, such as where to locate
new housing and community infrastructure. Otherwise affected people may
not use the new facilities, and the resources used to build them will be
wasted.Another important lesson emerging from disaster management projects
is that prevention is key to reducing losses from disasters. There are
many policy, institutional and physical measures that governments can
adopt to improve land-use planning; encourage better engineering,
construction, and maintenance practices; and reduce environmental
degradation that contributes to natural disaster losses. Further,
government can take steps to encourage the development of insurance
markets and create incentives for public sector entities to insure their
properties against loss--thereby reducing the fiscal shocks to the economy
from natural disasters and speeding reconstruction by making it easier to
mobilize resources to finance its costs. Finally, experience from some
countries shows that construction costs can fall when the post-disaster
procurement process requires more competitive procedures.The proposed
project design reflects these lessons. FONDEN's present operating
guidelines have been developed following widespread consultation with
diverse stakeholders and the Bank. These rules now provide for speedy
access to financial resources for emergency recovery and reconstruction,
-9-



and specify clearly the roles of states, municipalities, federal agencies
and others in responding to natural disasters. FONDEN's rules, which
provide for cost-sharing among different levels of government, also
encourage public entities to insure their properties against natural
disaster risk. Indeed during 1999, following a catastrophic earthquake
and floods, the state of Puebla placed insurance to limit its future
financial exposure to natural disaster losses. Through SEDESOL,
mechanisms are in place to ensure that disaster-affected people are
involved in decisions about how to best rebuild their lives.Moreover, the
project will provide support to develop an analytical framework for
assessing and reducing disaster risk in development projects and
reconstruction investments. And it will support analytical studies and
technical assistance to underpin development of Mexico's first explicit
program of prevention activities.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        For purposes of environmental assessment (EA) the
project is classified as category B because no subprojects are expected to
have significant adverse environmental impacts. The vast majority of
works subprojects will involve repair or reconstruction of infrastructure
works at their original sites. Subprojects may occasionally involve
capacity expansion (for example, water treatment), relocation of
infrastructure (either to improve its resilience or to provide community
services such as houses, schools and clinics), or work in protected areas
(mainly to restore ecosystems damaged in natural disasters). Both a
negative and positive list of eligible subprojects has been developed to
provide clear guidance on eligible activities and exclude activities with
potentially significant environment impacts (Bank environmental category
A) from Bank financing. In addition, all nonemergency subprojects will be
EA category C.   Mexican Environmental Law and regulations.    Mexican
Environmental Law (Ley General del Equilibrio Ecol6gico y la Protecci6n al
Ambiente or LGEEPA) was enacted in 1988 and last modified in 1996. It
requires an executing agency or responsible party (federal entity, state
or municipal government, or contractor) to obtain an environmental permit.
This permit may require the responsible party to submit an environmental
impact assessment report to the National Ecology Institute (INE) for works
and activities that fall under federal jurisdiction and that may have
negative environmental impacts. The law provides for environmental
assessment procedures which vary by type of works and their environmental
impacts. A "manifestaci6n de impacto ambiental" (MIA) is required for
activities with the most significant environmental impacts. An "informe
preventivo" is required for activities carried out within urban
development or ecological zoning plans, or as part of an approved
development program, and for activities located in approved industrial
parks, or for which environmental standards exist. The federal
environmental law sets minimum standards that state or municipal
governments must adhere to. Moreover, when regulated activities do not
fall explicitly under federal jurisdiction, SEMARNAP may issue a
recommendation for environmental management to the relevant state or
municipal authority. Thus, all levels of government must apply minimum
standards of environmental management. In emergencies, when response
speed is critical, Mexican law permits executing agencies to initiate
works without prior consultation with environmental authorities. However,
- 10 -



within three days of initiating works, executing agencies must inform
SEMARNAP that works have started, and within twenty days of initiating
works they must provide SEMARNAP with a report on the types of works and
associated mitigation and compensation measures that will be undertaken.
Mexico issued new environmental regulations in May 2000 reflecting
experiences gained through environmental impact assessments. These
regulations give greater emphasis to sound natural resource management;
refine the scope and content of EA procedures and reports; provide more
mechanisms for public consultation, citizen participation and complaint;
and include specific guidance on environmental permitting requirements in
emergency situations. Eleven sectoral guidelines for environmental
assessment are expected to be enacted soon, and should help improve the
quality of environmental impact assessments.Environmental management
capacity of implementing agencies. A capacity assessment of the federal
implementing agencies participating in the project found that their
capacity to manage environmental issues in their investment programs is
adequate. Public consultation. The environmental law provides for public
participation in the EA process. The new regulations for environmental
assessment emphasize the law's provisions related to public participation
and the right to information. They require that a list of all permit
requests be published and that INE's analysis of MIAs be made publicly
available. The law also gives rights to any member of the public to
request public consultations on projects submitted to SEMARNAP via MIAs.
However, public consultation is at INE's discretion, and therefore not
mandatory for all investments.Cultural property. Mexico has a rich
cultural heritage and archeological, artistic and historic sites are
distributed widely throughout the country. Therefore, natural disasters
and subsequent reconstruction work may uncover cultural property,
requiring the use of "chance find" procedures to ensure that that
qualified personnel make decisions on management of the sites and
materials. Natural disasters may also damage cultural property (separate
earthquakes striking Oaxaca and Puebla in 1999 damaged important
archeological sites and colonial buildings), which requires properly
planned and supervised stabilization or restoration measures. Cultural
property is highly valued in Mexico, and protected by national law,
institutions and practices. The federal law on archeological, artistic
and historic monuments and sites defines archeological, artistic and
historic property and specifies the authority and responsibilities of
cultural heritage agencies when sites or materials of cultural
significance are discovered. The law grants responsibility to the
National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) for archeological
and historic property, and to the National Council of Fine Arts and
Culture and the National Institute of Fine Arts and Literature for
artistic property. The law requires any party finding cultural property
to report the discovery to a local civil authority, which must report the
find to INAH within twenty four hours. The law further establishes INAH
as the sole entity authorized to excavate and research discoveries of
cultural property, and empowers INAH to suspend any works or activities
carried out by unauthorized persons. To ensure adequate resources are
available to repair cultural property and sites damaged during natural
disasters, FONDEN has recently incorporated into its rules provisions for
financing costs of rehabilitating national heritage buildings and sites.
Mexico's legal and regulatory framework is therefore consistent with the
Bank's guidance on cultural heritage. Through application of the
environmental management plan (EMP) for the project, the project will
- 11 -



encourage integration of cultural and environmental protection in the
reconstruction process. Summary capacity assessment. Mexican laws and
regulations dealing with environmental assessment and management of
"chance find" cultural property are broadly consistent with Bank
environmental and cultural property safeguards as defined in the Bank's
operational policies on environmental assessments (OP 4.01) and natural
habitats (OP 4.04), and its guidance on treatment of cultural property.
SEMARNAP (including INE and PROFEPA) has adequate capacity to ensure that
executing agencies comply with Mexico's federal environmental laws and
regulations, which establish minimum standards for other jurisdictions.
SEMARNAP has many years of experience and a large professional staff
working in diverse aspects of environmental management. Reinforcing this
view, an ongoing Bank OED study finds that SEMARNAP's environmental review
and enforcement process is generally operating satisfactorily (its
agencies have benefited from considerable Bank technical assistance
through the Mexico Environmental Management Project, Northern Border
Environment Project, and Water Resources Management Project). The study
points out that the Bank's annual reviews of Mexican environmental
assessment have found a steady increase in their quality and
effectiveness. Moreover, principal federal implementing agencies have
adequate capacity to manage environmental issues faced in the emergency
investments for which they are responsible. Therefore, the project can
rely on Mexico's established procedures as the basis for environmental
assessment for most emergency recovery and reconstruction works.
Environmental screening and review procedures. Activities financed by
Bank loans are typically subject to ex ante environmental screening,
assessment and public consultation requirements pursuant to the Bank's OP
4.01. However, in the case of emergency recovery loans, OP 4.01, para. 13
states that "when compliance with any requirement of this policy would
prevent the effective and timely achievement of the objectives of an
emergency recovery project, the Bank may exempt the project from such a
requirement."Emergency recovery loans are governed by the Bank's OP 8.50
and are made in response to an emergency which has already occurred. The
loan for this project is not made in response to an emergency which has
occurred prior to the processing of the project, and in this sense does
not fit exactly within the bounds of OP 8.50. Nevertheless, the emergency
subprojects envisioned under the project will be made in response to
emergencies occurring before such subprojects are prepared, and thus will
be subject to the same urgent response imperative -- to protect affected
lives and property -- as may justify exemptions (pursuant to OP 4.01,
para. 13) from potentially time-consuming environmental requirements.The
only difference between a classic OP 8.50 emergency recovery project and
the emergency subprojects envisioned here is that the Bank cannot today,
when the loan is being processed for approval, judge on the ground, in the
face of an actual emergency, the extent to which OP 4.01 environmental
requirement exemptions may be justified. Potentially, the Bank could
perform such an ex ante analysis for every emergency subproject that
arises post-loan approval by the Bank's Board, but this would imply Bank
prior review of each case, with the delays, impracticalities and Bank
micro-scrutiny such prior review can signify (all in the face, again, of
an emergency requiring the quickest response). Given that the project
contemplates responses to potentially hundreds of "routine" natural
disasters expected to occur throughout all of Mexico's varied and
extensive geography, such Bank micro-scrutiny could jeopardize the needed
speed of response implicit in any emergency, and hamper Mexico's
- 12 -



sophisticated processes for dealing swiftly with such cases through
FONDEN.Hence, the project, through a proposed application of OP 4.01
exemption policy as allowed in emergency settings, provides for reliance
on notification (by subproject implementing agencies to Mexican federal
environmental authorities deemed competent as indicated in the project's
Environmental Management Plan) of the emergency subproject activities
falling under federal jurisdiction, after those activities have been
initiated. Nothing prevents such notification from being made prior to
such initiation, triggering full ex ante environmental assessment under
Mexican law if the local parties involved feel that the circumstances so
allow, despite the emergency nature of the situation. However, by
applying the cited OP 4.01 exemption possibility, any such ex ante
environmental review, by the Bank or local environmental authorities, as
well as any ex ante public consultation on potential environmental impacts
and mitigation, would not be mandatory.There may therefore be some risk
that, in any given future subproject, an unwanted environmental impact may
occur because of said exemptions necessitated by the emergency nature of
the response. Consequently, the project legal documents specify a series
of protective measures designed to minimize this risk. Such measures
include the following:(a)    Specification of a "positive list" of
activities that may be carried out under subprojects;(b) Specification of
a "negative list" of activities that may not be carried out under
subprojects (such activities include what would typically be considered
risky "category A" activities for environmental purposes under Bank
policy);(c) Mandatory ex ante Bank prior review of subprojects considered
potentially risky because they affect some protected areas, or are
particularly large, involve relocation of infrastructure, or involve
expansion of infrastructure (see the project's Environmental Management
Plan for details); and(d) Limitation of subprojects to those that involve
initiation of on-site work within no later than 180 days after the
official declaration of a disaster, the assumption being that work
initiated afterwards is indicative of the lack of a true emergency. The
180 day cut-off was established in consultation with Bank environmental
staff, and reflects their opinion that a sound ex ante environmental
assessment of a subproject -- together with meaningful public consultation
-- would take at least 180 days to perform.    Consequently, a subproject
begun more than 180 days after a disaster declaration could have benefited
from such an assessment and consultation and would thus not require the
exemptions proposed under OP 4.01, para. 13.Procedures and schedules for
Bank review. As part of its routine supervision process and midterm
review, the Bank will review performance of INE and PROFEPA in applying
the environmental assessment procedures, evaluate performance of executing
agencies in addressing environmental issues in design and implementation
of subprojects, and agree on actions to be taken to improve performance.
This will involve visits by specialists to selected sites of subprojects
for first-hand assessment of implementing agencies' performance. They
will assess the environmental and social impacts of subprojects, both
individually and cumulatively, and the adequacy of safeguard procedures
agreed for the project. They will also evaluate the extent to which the
emergency was precipitated or exacerbated by inappropriate environmental
practices and propose remediation measures to be included in the project.
The midterm review will consider especially (a) any changes which should
be introduced into the project's EMP or resettlement framework to better
mitigate emergencies arising from inappropriate environmental practices
and apply the Bank's safeguard policies during project execution, and (b)
- 13 -



ways to modify the EMP's prior review triggers to reflect the magnitude of
the anticipated environmental and social impacts from the proposed
interventions, rather than reflect size alone. The implementation
completion report will, among other aspects, evaluate the effectiveness of
executing agencies in addressing environmental and social issues, and draw
lessons for improvements in design and implementation of similar
projects. It will also include an analysis of the adequacy of the
instruments used to apply Bank safeguard policies during project
execution. Subprojects implemented in violation of Mexico's laws for
environment, EA procedures, or treatment of cultural property will not be
eligible for Bank financing.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Christopher J. Barham
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-8615
Fax: 202-522-3540
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November
3, 2000.
- 14 -



