Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20441-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$404.05 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FORA
NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 7, 2000
Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Sector Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 10/17/2000)
Currency Unit = New peso (N$)
N$1.00 = US$0.1055
US$1.00 = 9.4775
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adjustable Program Loan
BANOBRAS    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos (National Bank of Public Works and Services)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEPEP         Centro de Estudios de Planeaci6n y Evaluaci6n de Proyectos (Project Planning and Evaluation
Training Center)
CENAPRED    Centro Nacional de Prevenci6n de Desastres (National Center for Disaster Prevention)
CFE            Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission)
CNA           Comisi6n Nacional de Agua (National Water Commission)
FME           Fideicomiso Mixto Estatal (Mixed State Trust)
FONDEN        Fondo para Desastres Naturales (Fund for Natural Disasters)
INE           Instituto Nacional Ecologia (National Ecology Institute)
INI           Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National Indigenous Institute)
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
PCC           Project Coordination Comnittee
PROFEPA       Procuraduria Federal de Protecci6n al Ambiente, (Federal Attomey General for Environmental
Protection)
SAGAR         Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural (Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock
and Rural Development)
SCT           Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Secretariat of Communications and
Transportation)
SECODAM       Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo (Secretariat for Administrative Control
and Development)
SEDESOL       Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (Secretariat for Social Development)
SEGOB         Secretaria de Gobemaci6n (Secretariat of the Interior)
SEMARNAP   Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca (Secretariat of Environment,
Natural Resources and Fisheries)
SEP           Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica (Secretariat of Public Education)
SHCP          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Piiblico (Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit)
SINAPROC      Sistema Nacional de Protecci6n Civil (National System of Civil Protection)
SSA           Secretaria de Salud (Secretariat of Health)
UNAM          Universidad Nacional Aut6noma de Mexico (National Autonomous University of
Mexico)
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Country Sector Leader:    Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Christopher J. Barham



MEXICO
NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           15
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          16
4. Institutional                                                                      16
5. Social                                                                             17
6. Environmental                                                                      19
7. Participatory Approach                                                             22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     23
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            24
2. Other                                                                              24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           31
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    35
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     45
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    46
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  47
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            50
Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan                                                  52
Annex 12: Criteria for Selecting Prevention and Capacity-Building Investments             67
MAP(S)
IBRD 29701



MEXICO
Natural Disaster Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSEN
Date: November 7, 2000                             Team Leader: Christopher J. Barham
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade       Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P064887                                Sector(s): VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Z Loan          [2 Credit       C Grant         Z Guarantee     D Other (Specif-y)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$404.05
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .85% for the first
four years and .75% thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
PianingP lan       $ourc.                         ;                         -   :   -  - -T. i
GOVERNMENT                                                    254.30            0.00        254.30
IBRD                                                           77.50         326.55         404.05
Total:                                                        331.80         326.55         658.35
Borrower: BANOBRAS
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP)
Address:
Subsecretaria de Egresos
Constituyentes No. 1001
Edificio C-3, Sexto Nivel
Col. Belen de Las Flores
Contact Person: Lic. Antonio Alvarado Ramirez, Jefe de La Unidad
Tel: 228-49-15                 Fax: 228-49-62                Email: jalvarad@sse.gob.mx
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2          2-0X   -0             204 0- 
Annual    80.0        50.0       100.0     100.0       74.0
Cumulative    80.0       130.0      230.0      330.0     404.0
Project implementation period: Fiscal 2001 - 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 02/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OC5 PADF-n R.-  n:. 2-D



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project will help reduce human, economic and financial costs of natural disasters in Mexico by (a)
providing resources for rapid recovery following natural disasters within a framework of sound budget
management; and (b) reducing the likelihood that natural forces will result in loss of life and infrastructure
damage by supporting policy and instituional reformns aimed at reducing vulnerability and risk and
improving government capacity for analyzing natural disaster risk.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
It will not be possible to measure quantitativly the impacts of many of the projects' activities during the
period the project is under implementation. For example, becausenatural disasters of similar types and
intensities occur infrequently in areas with similar population, human settlement and infrastructure
characteristics, it will not be possible to generate reliable time-series data to observdhe reduced economic
impacts from natural disasters which the project is intended to engender. Therefore, subjective assessments
will be made of the project's outcomes. It will, however, be possible to measure indicators of improved
sector management, such as speed of response to natural disasters measured by the number of days
between the date when disasters are declared, the date federal, state and municipal reconstruction funds are
allocated, and the date works are completed. They also include indicators of improved sector policies, such
as development and implementation of improved building codes or standards for design, construction, and
maintenance of public infrastructure. Finally, performance indicators include measures of institutional
strengthening and capacity building, such as adoption of improved procedures by government agencies.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-92[IFC/R99-82]               Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/08/99
Poverty reduction is the ultimate objective of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico
discussed by the Board on June 8, 1999. Because of domestic and extemal circumstances, the poverty
reduction objective will translate into three imperatives. First, assistance is needed to foster social
sustainability through programs that target the poor. Second, policy advice and projects that can
effectively foster sustainable growth are needed. Third, help is needed to strengthen public administration.
The sectoral support strategies in the CAS include environmental protection by improving disaster
management capacity to prevent and mitigate the heavy recurrent losses Mexico suffers (forest fires,
earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, and the like), among other measures. The proposed project will improve
Mexico's ability to cope with natural disasters within a framework of sound budgetary management and
fiscal discipline, and in the medium term, help reduce the heavy recurrent financial, economic, human and
social losses that the country has frequently suffered in the past. And because natural disasters
disproportionately hurt the poor, the project supports Mexico's integrated poverty alleviation strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In terns of geography and climate, Mexico is one of the most diverse countries in the world. It is
susceptible to a wide range of natural disasters such as floods, droughts, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes,
fires and tropical cyclones. These natural events can cause widespread loss of life and damage to economic
infrastructure because of the country's settlement patterns, construction practices and a lack of disaster
response capacity.
-2 -



Since 1980 direct damage from natural disasters in Mexico totaled some US$11.1 billion, and some 8,000
people have lost their lives. Apart from the direct losses, disasters disrupt the development process because
the need for emergency and reconstruction financing diverts budgetary resources from their originally
intended uses, disrupting priority investment programs. For example, in recent years, an estimated 30
percent of government funding for World Bank infrastructure projects in Mexico was diverted to respond to
emergencies.
Moreover, in Mexico as in other developing countries, the poor are disproportionately affected by natural
disasters. According to assessments of the National Center for Disaster Prevention (CENAPRED), 68
percent of people affected by natural disasters in Mexico are poor and extremely poor. Many lower income
people live in substandard housing that is less able to withstand natural forces than housing of the better
off. Some live in high density settlements near cities, built on steep slopes vulnerable to landslides. Others
live in low lying areas and are at risk of flooding.
The poor also have less access to resources to help them recover from physical losses than others, and
therefore can suffer permanent setbacks from natural disasters. They are less likely to have savings,
insurance or access to credit which could help them finance reconstruction costs. They are also more likely
to lose their source of livelihood because they eam their living from small agricultural plots which are
themselves damaged by the natural disasters. During crises poor children are also more likely to suffer
malnutrition and health problems, and frequently drop out of school. These can lead to chronic poverty.
The Mexican government is well aware of the country's vulnerability to risks from natural hazards, and has
taken important steps to reduce their impacts on lives and property. These include:
3   The development of disaster preparedness and civil defense programs led by the Secretariat of
Government (SEGOB) and the Secretariat of Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries
(SEMARNAP), and implemented through the Civil Defense System (SINAPROC)
• The establishment in 1996 of the Fund for Natural Disasters (FONDEN) at the federal level, as a last
resort source of financing for reconstruction of public infrastructure, restoration of protected areas,
purchase of emergency response equipment, and disaster relief.
3 The establishment of CENAPRED as a center for research and diffusion of mitigation technologies;
and
3 The provision of support for university-based research on risk assessment and modeling (for example,
at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM))
Federal agencies, (including SEGOB, Secretariat of Communications and Transportation (SCT),
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR), Secretariat for Social
Development (SEDESOL), SEMARNAP, Secretariat of Public Education (SEP), Secretariat of Health
(SSA), and the National Water Commission (CNA)) and state or municipal governments execute the
emergency activities and reconstruction works. Ongoing disaster management activities have helped
establish an important knowledge and institutional base for disaster preparedness, mitigation and
reconstruction, especially for seismic and hydrometeorological events affecting major cities. However, this
knowledge and institutional base needs to be expanded to cover other hazards (such as forest fires) and
vulnerable regions of the country. Financing of reconstruction following natural disasters also needs to be
more efficient and effective, for example through better use of risk transfer instruments by both the private
and public sectors. Moreover, while government agenciesdo include actions to prevent damage from
natural forces, these need to be made more systematic.
Following experience with the first two years of FONDEN's operations, the Mexican government reviewed
FONDEN's operational practices, with a view to making them more effective. As part of these efforts, in
- 3-



mid- 1998 the govemment requested Bank assistance to improve its management of natural disasters. In
response, the Bank undertook a study examining how the govenmment was managing natural disasters, both
in terms of preparedness and mitigation, as well as risk financing and transfer. This study was discussed in
a February 1999 workshop attended by stakeholders from government, academia and the private sector.
The study found that:
* In Mexico, only about 10 percent of private property was insured. Moreover, there was need to
develop better mechanisms (for example, insurance pools) to make non-earthquake catastrophic
insurance more widely available. It is likely that privately-purchased catastrophic risk coverage will
increase only slowly, in concert with the growth of per capita income and a "culture of safety" in the
society, and the introduction of new insurance products. Thus, government will continue to bear a
large share of risks from natural hazards in the near and medium-tenns.
* Insurance companies could provide incentives for insured parties to adopt measures to reduce losses
through their underwriting and monitoring practices Accordingly, adoption of a policy requiring
govemment entities to insure public properties could be a powerful means for encouraging adoption of
prevention measures, thereby reducing public sector losses in the event of natural disasters.
As a result of the review of FONDEN's operations, the Government decided to take several steps to
improve FONDEN's operating policies and practices to clarifv its responsibilities, improve its decision
processes and make them more transparent, define the risks assumed by FONDEN,and find ways to help it
meet disasters whose costs exceed FONDEN's resources. Following consultations with a broad range of
stakeholders and the Bank, in March 1999 the govemment modified FONDEN's operating guidelines to (a)
make FONDEN's decision rules for access to resources and the loss assessment process clearer and more
transparent; (b) limit the moral hazard faced by FONDEN, by encouraging greater use of private insurance
by FONDEN's beneficiaries, and establishing clear cost-sharing formiulas for FONDEN's financing of
disaster losses falling under the responsibility of state and municipal governments,and (c) encourage
adoption of prevention measures, both within the reconstruction programs financed by FONDEN and in the
regular investment programs of FONDEN's beneficiaries. These policies and practices are being
formalized through voluntary agreements between the federal and state governments (and the Federal
District), setting out the rights and responsibilities of the parties, including their acceptance of FONDEN's
rules. Each agreement will lead to the establishment of a trust(ideicomiso mixto estatal or FME) between
the federal government and the respective state (or the Federal District) within which the agreed shares of
financing to be paid by the various parties will be blended to achieve the agreed cost-sharing targets for
disaster relief and reconstruction activities. Under the terms of each trust, which are administered by
BANOBRAS as trustee, spending decisions and the contracting of eligible emergency activities will be
made by a technical committee comprising state and municipal representatives, acting with advice from
federal entities. These measures are expected to increase transparency, accountability and efficiency in the
use of FONDEN's resources, and redistribute the costs of natural disasters between the various levels of
government and the private sector, and over time reduce the share of such costs bome by the public sector.
By the end of January 2000, 27 states (of 32 states plus the Federal District) had signed trust agreements
with FONDEN. In addition, SEGOB and FONDEN were providing intensive training to state and
municipal officials on FONDEN's objectives and procedures. Both SEGOB and FONDEN have learned
important lessons during the first year applying the 1999 guidelines, including lessons from the operations
of different technical committees. These lessons include the importance ofproviding financing for early
warning systems and reconstruction of damaged national cultural property, the need to further decentralize
decision-making authority, the need to apply good resettlement practices, and the need to develop uniform
standards for insuring public property. Revised FONDEN guidelines were issued in February 2000
reflecting the emerging lessons.
-4 -



The government is continuing to explore best use of FONDEN resources and is seeking Bank participation
in the leaming process. Areas of particular interest are whether and how to employ reinsurance and capital
market instruments to finance FONDEN expenditures more efficiently, and analytical methods to set
priorities for public investment in prevention activities. It is therefore likely that during the project period
the Government will continue to seek ways to improve the policy and institutional framework for disaster
management in Mexico.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed by the project
The project will assist the govermnent to reduce human, economic and financial losses from natural
disasters. It will support development and implementation of national policies and measures aimed at
reducing damage from natural disasters and development of capacity to better assess and manage risks.
Currently, federal agencies implement actions for prevention, but not systematically. It will also promote
development of the insurance industry by generating better information which insurance companies need to
assess risks and price their products.
Strategic choices
Providing post-disaster financing through FONDEN rather than other mechanisms. Traditionally,
Mexico financed reconstruction costs by reallocating funds from sectoral development programs, including
those financed extemally. This disrupted the development process because the need for emergency and
reconstruction financing diverted budgetary resources from their originally-intended uses. FONDEN was
established as a dedicated source of financing for post-disaster needs, helping to protect ongoing
development programs from disruption while maintaining fiscal discipline.
Reducing losses through prevention versus reacting to them through reconstruction. Government has
adopted several measures to encourage federal entities to reduce losses from natural events. FONDEN's
rules require state and municipal governments to share costs arising from natural disasters. This provides
them with an incentive to implement prevention measures. It is also requiring federal entities to purchase
insurance; insurance companies in turn offer incentives to customers to take prevention actions.
Encouraging federal entities to purchase private insurance rather than self-insuring. Traditionally, the
government has self-insured against natural disaster losses. This has sometimes led to lack of liquidity
when these costs have been high. The government is now requiring federal entities to purchase insurance
against losses, which improves access to capital, speeds the reconstruction process and reduces shocks to
the economy.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will finance subprojects acceptable to the Bank. It is expected to be committed in three
calendar years (years 2001-03) and disbursed in about four years. It willsupport three components: (1)
prevention activities, (2) emergency recovery and reconstructionactivities, and (3) capacity building
activities.
-5 -



Component 1: Prevention activities
This component will finance analytical, design and policy-related studies and equipment aimed at reducing
economic and human losses in the event of a natural disaster. Prevention activities will be executed
through federal agencies as part of their annual investment programs. Participating federal agencies will be
SHCP, SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP and SSA. At the
start of each (Mexican) fiscal year SHCPwill agree with the Bank and the executing agencies upon the
prevention activitiesthat the project will finance. Such activities, which will not include major civil works,
will be selected and implemented in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures,
and technical criteria acceptable to the Bank. These criteria will be included in the projects operating
manual. Technical criteria for prevention programs are detailed in annex 12.
Component 2: Emergency recovery and emergency reconstruction activities
This component will support emergency recovery and reconstruction activities financed through FONDEN
and executed either through federal agencies orstate and municipal agencies financed throughfideicomisos
mixtos estatales (FMEs). Only FONDEN-financed activities initiated within 15 days before and 180 days
following the declaration of an emergency by SEGOB will be eligible for Bank financing. Emergency
recovery activities are defined for purposes of the project as those activitiesnitiated within 15 days before
and 45 days after the declaration of an emergency by SEGOB. These activities are subject to expedited
procurement procedures. Reconstruction activities are defined for purposes of the project as thosdnitiated
between 45 days and 180 days following the declaration of an emergency. On an exceptional basis, both
the 45 day limit and the 180 day limit mentioned above may be extended by the Bank for a particular
sub-project if justifiable delays occur in the cornmencement of on-site work following the declaration of a
disaster, for example, owing to non-receding flood waters. Reconstruction investments will be selected and
implemented in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures, and environmental,
social and technical criteria acceptable to the Bank. Eligible emergency recovery and reconstruction
expenditures include net-of-tax FONDEN expenditures for activities that satisfy the environmental criteria
included in Annex 11, except for cash compensation paid to producers, purchases of equipment for disaster
preparedness, relief assistance, land, and activities not constituting investments.
Component 3: Capacity building activities
This component will finance activities to strengthen capacity of SHCP, SEGOB/CENAPRED,
SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP and SSA to respond to natural disasters, manage
social, cultural and environmental issues arising from natural disasters, and use insurance and other risk
transfer instruments. It is envisaged that this component will help develop a framework to help sectoral
implementing agencies identify priority prevention investments for inclusion in their annual programs. At
the start of each (Mexican) fiscal year SHCP will agree with the Bank and the executing agencies upon
capacity building activities that the project will finance. Such investnents will be selected and implemented
in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures and technical criteria acceptable to
the Bank. These criteria will be included in the project's operating manual. Typical activities this
component will support are shown in annex 12.
-6 -



_____________--_--- _: _-- ___          :   :   :       ( U S$M )-iot  {U $M }       :   financing
Prevention activities                                    15.90        2.4      15.00        3.7
Emergency recovery and reconstruction                   633.30       96.2    380.00        94.0
investments
Capacity building activities                              5.00        0.8       5.00        1.2
Total Project Costs                    654.20        99.4    400.00       99.0
Front-end fee                      4.05        0.6       4.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                     658.25      100.0    404.05       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Through studies and policy dialogue, the project will support continuing exploration of more efficient ways
to finance reconstruction from natural disasters, for example by using risk transfer instruments to finance
appropriate components of FONDEN's costs.
The project will support development and adoption of measures to incorporate prevention measures into the
public investment program. These could involve changes in policies (such as building and construction
codes, land use planning, incentives to purchase insurance and the like) and analytical techniques (such as
use of risk analysis to screen public investment proposals).
The project will support diffusion of the resettlement practices presently implemented by SEDESOL for
"disaster refugees" under FONDEN's operations. These resettlementpractices represent good practice in
Mexico and are consistent with the Bank's resettlement policy, but are still not widely applied outside of
SEDESOL's own programs. The practices have been codified in the project's Resettlement Framework
which will govern any involuntary resettlement activities which may occur under the project.
Under FONDEN's operating rules,technical committees of the FMEs have been given substantial
responsibilities for disaster managementdecisions. The project will support the decentralization process in
Mexico through its support for FMEs.
The project will also support adoption of more competitive practices for procuring goods and works in the
imnmediate aftermath of disasters by requiring implementing agencies using shopping procedures to obtain
quotations from suppliers in at least two states. In other countries similar procedures have resulted in
reduced reconstruction costs.
Finally, through application of the environmental management plan (Annex 11), the project will support
improvements in the management of environmental issues and "chance find" cultural property during
reconstruction from natural disasters.
-7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The project will assist in reducing the human, economic and financial costs of natural disasters by
supporting the development of prevention measures to reduce the vulnerability of infrastructure to natural
forces, and by facilitating quicker access to reconstruction financing by FONDEN's beneficiaries. It will
reduce diversion of funds from ongoing development programs--and their consequent disruption--by
providing a dedicated source of financing for reconstruction. It will also help reduce fiscal shocks to the
economy from natural disasters by providing liquidity for reconstruction.
While the project will benefit the entire population by reducing the losses to the overall economy from
natural disasters, it will particularly benefit impoverished victims of natural disasters. In Mexico some 65
percent of victims of natural disasters are the poor or very poor. Ninety percent of the 400 people who died
in Acapulco due to hurricane Pauline lived inbarrios leveled by mudslides. Most people living in
substandard housing in high density settlements built in risky areas where land is cheap or unoccupied by
others are poor with no other options. Further, the poor have little or no access to formal insurance
markets, so must bear the full costs of natural disasters themselves. FONDEN as financier of last resort
has special provisions to assist poor and low-income households rebuild their communities and reestablish
their incomes in the event of a natural disaster.
In the medium term, the project will benefit private sector insurance finns through generation of risk
information, including risk maps prepared through the project's prevention and capacity building activities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period. The project will be implemented over four calendar years, 2001-2004. It
is expected that the loan will be fully committed in three years and will be fully disbursed by December 31,
2004.
Project coordination and oversight. SHCP will establish a project coordinating committee (PCC), and
assume the role of overall project coordination. This PCC will comprise representatives from SHCP,
SEGOB/CENAPRED, and BANOBRAS. SHCP will chair the PCC. Representatives from the FMEs and
other implementing agencies will be invited when warranted. The PCC will monitor progress of project
implementation based on technical and financial information received from BANOBRAS and the
implementing and auditing agencies. A staff member of SHCP has been designated to be project
coordinator. He will serve as the principal point of contact with the Bank and will provide progress reports
to the government and the Bank through BANOBRAS.
Executing agencies. SHCP, SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP
and SSA will execute prevention and capacity-building activities as part of their normal work programs.
These same federal agencies and those state and municipal agencies which are FONDEN's beneficiaries
(financed through FMEs) will execute emergency recovery and reconstruction activities. The FMEs and
the federal implementing agencies will provide technical and monitoring data to the project coordinator
through BANOBRAS.
Project administration. BANOBRAS as the government'sfmancial agent (and building on its
responsibilities as trustee for the FMEs) will exercise key administrative and quality control functions. It
will oversee financial management, procurement, disbursement and audit arrangements for the project, and
inform federal and state environmental authorities of FONDEN-financed activities. BANOBRAS will
collect technical and financial data from the FMEs and the federal implementing agencies, and provide
them to the project coordinator. BANOBRAS will screen expenditures which are not subject to Bank prior
- 8 -



review (such as those for emergency recovery activities) ex-post for eligibility for Bank financing.
Procurement arrangements. Based on experience with procuring contracts under emergency conditions in
Mexico, and the fact that monitoring of contracts not requiring prior review by the Bank will be done
through sampling, there is a risk that contracts not satisfying the definition of emergency activities as
defined above will be included in the emergency component and procured through direct contracting. This
may be especially true in the case of contracts financed through the FMEs, which may be procured through
state and local agencies with little familiarity with Bank procurement requirements. The procurement risk
for this project is therefore rated as high.
In order to mitigate this procurement risk, the following arrangements have been agreed with the Borrower:
(a) BANOBRAS will ensure quality control of all procurement processes, liaise with the Bank and the
executing agencies, organize and maintain procurement records, draft quarterly reports, and be responsible
for project accounting, financial reporting, and compliance with audit and environmental requirements
agreed under the project. BANOBRAS will also review and confirm the eligibility of all procurement
contracts not subject to Bank prior review before signature by the contracting agency. The Loan
Agreement will assign these responsibilities to BANOBRAS, which will retain adequate staff for this
purpose; (b) A justification for the use of direct contracting in emergency activities will be required and
will be maintained on file. Such justification will clearly establish a causal relationship between the
specific emergency and the need for the direct contract Every quarter a copy of the justifications will be
sent to the Bank by BANOBRAS. The project will include annual procurement audits of selected
contracts, particularly those awarded on a sole source basis as a result of any specific emergency; and (c)
During the first year of the project, BANOBRAS will implement a training program through which
appropriate staff will receive training in Bank procurement procedures.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Disaster recovery and reconstruction
projects cofinanced with resources from FONDEN, states, and municipalities are financed through FMEs
established in each of the affected states. The FMEs will maintain separate accounts for each disaster and
will prepare statements of their respective sources and uses of funds (disaggregated by budget category)
and balance sheets showing their financial condition. BANOBRAS, as their trustee, will maintain budget
and financial accounts for each of these FMEs, which will be subject to annual audits acceptable to the
Bank. For disaster reconstruction of purely federal assets, and prevention and capacity building activities
implemented by federal agencies, the respective federal agencies will maintain budget accounts and
supporting documentation in accordance with federal budget and accounting procedures. BANOBRAS, in
its role as financial agent and trustee for the FMEs, will establish a consolidated project account which
reflects budget allocations and expenditures for all project activities, and will arrange to receive copies of
documents (for procurement review, preparation of SOEs, and the like) to support disbursement requests to
the Bank. The project accounts maintained by BANOBRAS will also be subject to annual audits
acceptable to the Bank.
For purposes of carrying out the project, a Special Account will be opened and maintained by
BANOBRAS on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into the Special Account and
corresponding replenishments, up to the authorized allocations set out in the Disbursement Letter, will be
based initially on Withdrawal Applications accompanied by supporting documentation as specified in the
Disbursement Handbook (traditional procedure based on SOEs).
A financial management assessment was carried out during project preparation. The classification of the
project for FM] purposes is based upon the judgment that while the project's financial management system
is basically sound, reporting systems cannot immediately generate PMRs. Accordingly, a time-bound
-9-



action plan for improving reporting systems has been agreed with the Borrower. By October 31, 2001 the
Borrower and the Guarantor will complete the action plan aimed at preparing quarterly PMRs. The
possible migration to PMR-based disbursements will be analyzed by the Bank, the Borrower, and the
Guarantor during the second year of project imnplementation. Once the accounting and financial
management systems of the federal executing agencies and BANOBRAS as trustee are deemed compliant
with the Bank's Financial Management Initiative (FMI) requirements, and are certified as such by the
Bank, migration to a project management report-based (PMR) disbursement system may be implemented.
Accounting systems in the implementing agencies will operate in accordance with the "Financial,
Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook," dated January 1995 and published by the World Bank.
The annual audit of the project will be carried out in line with both (a) the "Guidelines and Terms of
Reference for Audits of Projects with financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean
Region" dated May 1999, and (b) the Technical Memorandum of Understanding agreed between the Bank
and SECODAM in 2000. Terms of reference for annual audits of project accounts and specific
arrangements related to auditors have been agreed. Audits will be carried out by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with international audit standards. The report of such auditors will
be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Reporting. Different entities are responsible for reporting on various aspects of the project. All reports
will be submitted to the Bank through BANOBRAS.
* The PCC will prepare progress reports every six months. No later than six months after the project
closing date, the Guarantor will prepare and provide to the Bank a report on the execution of the
project, its costs, and current and future benefits to be derived from it.
* SEMARNAP (with input from INE and PROFEPA) will produce an annual report on the
environmental aspects of the project.
- SEDESOL will report on resettlement every six months
* the Guarantor and BANOBRAS will provide quarterly project management reports acceptable to the
Bank, in agreement with the financial management action plan.
Project operating manual. The project operating manual will contain technical and legal documents
pertaining to the project, management and implementation arrangements, FONDEN's guidelines, criteria
for selecting prevention and capacity building activities, disbursement and procurement procedures and
samples of standard procurement documents, audit requirements and terms of reference for external
auditors, the environmental management plan and resettlement framework, monitoring indicators and
reporting requirements.
Supervision. The Bank will devote an estimated 100 staff weeks to supervise progress under the Bank loan
through fiscal 2005. Two routine supervision missions will be planned each year, in the spring and fall.
Each mission will focus on (a) FONDEN performance; (b) progress with prevention and capacity building
activities; (c) procurement and financial management issues; and (d) environmental and social impacts of
subprojects, on an individual and a cumulative basis, the extent to which various emergencies were
precipitated or exacerbated by inappropriate environmental practices, and the adequacy of safeguard
procedures agreed for the project. Mission members will be drawn from Mexican or Washington-based
Bank staff or consultants with appropriate skills. Since the Mexico field office has procurement and
financial management specialists on its staff, these issues will be dealt with on an ongoing basis, leaving
only special issues to be addressed during supervision missions.
Climatological disasters normally occur seasonally, with floods and hurricanes occurring during July-
- 1 0 -



December, and droughts and forest fires occurring during January-June. Therefore, the skill mix of
environmental field staff will vary depending on the season. The fall supervision mission will focus on
response to fires and droughts, and general institutional performance in applying this EMP under the
project. The spring mission will focus on response to floods and hurricanes, and budgetary issues for the
forthcoming Mexican fiscal year. Effects of episodic geological events (major earthquak.e or volcanic
eruption) will be reviewed in the field as needed.
The midterm review will include (a) an analysis of the progress made towards achieving the project's
objectives and the degree to which they remain valid; (b) an assessment of the adequacy of treatment of
environmental, cultural, and social issues under the project, including those arising from resettlement; (c)
identification of any changes which should be introduced into the project's EMNP or resettlement framework
in order to better mitigate emergencies arising from inappropriate environmental practices and apply the
Bank's safeguard policies during project execution; (d) consideration of ways to modify the EMP's triggers
for prior review by the Bank to reflect the magnitude of the anticipated environmental and social impacts
from the proposed interventions, and not size alone, and (e) the adequacy of the eligibility period used to
define expenditures to be included under the project.
The implementation completion report mission will evaluate the overall success of the project relative to its
objectives, the effectiveness of executing agencies in addressing environmental and social issues, and draw
lessons for improvements in design and implementation of similar projects. The implementation completion
report will include an analysis of the adequacy of the instruments used to apply Bank safeguard policies
during project execution.
Monitoring. Overall project monitoring will be based on indicators that the Bank and its Borrowing
country counterparts have together selected to enable FONDEN and other participating agencies to
measure the success of their programs, including the activities supported by the project. The indicators will
be included in the project's operating manual.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Supporting FONDEN's operations versus supporting emergency recovery needs through existing
projects and programs. The Bank typically assisted Mexico to respond to natural disasters by diverting
resources from existing project, disrupting its ongoing investment programs. By supporting FONDEN, the
Bank can avoid diverting its resources from investment projects to emergency works, and thereby maintain
the integrity of its sectoral operations.
Supporting reconstruction through FONDEN's operations rather than through an emergency
recovery loan. During a typical year, Mexico experiences numerous droughts, floods, forest fires,
hurricanes, and earthquakes. FONDEN has been established to finance up to about US$450 million of
emergency recovery and reconstruction assistance per year. By financing FONI)EN the Bank can
efficiently help Mexico meet its post-disaster financing needs for most years. However, periodically
Mexico experiences a major disaster requiring reconstruction resources beyond what FONDEN can supply.
For these cases, extraordinary public funding will be needed, and FONDEN will provide financing for the
most urgent and immediate needs until emergency recovery loans are in place.
- 11 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
S  ctor Issue                     Peolect                 (PSRj atings
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Natural Disaster Recovery         Mexico Earthquake                 S             S
Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Project
(Loan 2665) (Closed December
1990)
Bolivia El Nino Emergency         S             S
(Loan 3050) (Closing
December 2000)
Ecuador El Nifio Emergency        S             S
Recovery (Loan 44200)
(Closing December 2000)
Peru El Nifio Emergency           S             S
Project (Loan 42500)
(Closing December 2000)
Guyana El Nifno Emergency         S             S
Recovery (Loan 31390)
(Closing November 2001)
Organization of Eastem            S             S
Caribbean States Emergency
Recovery and Disaster
Management (effective June
1999, closing January 2002)
(Loan 31500)
Dominican Republic Hurricane      S             S
Georges Emergency Recovery
(Loan 44200)
(effective June 1999, closing
January 2002)
Turkey Mamara Earthquake
Recovery Project (Board
approval November 16, 1999)
(Loan 45170)
Colombia Earthquake Recovery     S              S
Project (Board approval March
21, 2000)
Other development agencies
USAID, implemented by OAS         Caribbean Disaster Mitigation
Project (Model Building Code
Project)
- 12 -



Inter-American Development Bank     Dominican Republic
Reconstruction in the Wake of
Hurricane Georges (approved
1998)
Guatemala Emergency Program
in Response to Natural
Disasters (approved 1998)
Ecuador Supplementary el Nifio
Emergency Program
(approved 1998)
Paraguay El Nifio Emergency
Program (approved 1998)
Colombia Reconstruction
following the Earthquake in the
Coffee Belt (approved 1999)
Honduras Emergency Road and
Water Supply Infrastructure
Project (approved 1999)
1PID0 Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Previous Bankwide experience with disaster reconstruction projects shows that for authorities to act
quickly, flexible procurement procedures must be in place, and implementing agencies should have a clear
definition of their roles and responsibilities. It also shows that victims of disasters must be involved in
decisions which affect them, such as where to locate new housing and community infrastructure.
Otherwise affected people may not use the new facilities, and the resources used to build them will be
wasted.
Another important lesson emerging from disaster management projects is that prevention is key to reducing
losses from disasters. There are many policy, institutional and physical measures that governments can
adopt to improve land-use planning; encourage better engineering, construction, and maintenance practices;
and reduce environmental degradation that contributes to natural disaster losses. Further, government can
take steps to encourage the development of insurance markets and create incentives for public sector
entities to insure their properties against loss--thereby reducing the fiscal shocks to the economy from
natural disasters and speeding reconstruction by making it easier to mobilize resources to finance its costs.
Finally, experience from some countries shows that construction costs can fall when the post-disaster
procurement process requires more competitive procedures.
The proposed project design reflects these lessons. FONDEN's present operating guidelines have been
developed following widespread consultation with diverse stakeholders and the Bank. These rules now
provide for speedy access to financial resources for emergency recovery and reconstruction, and specify
clearly the roles of states, municipalities, federal agencies and others in responding to natural disasters.
FONDEN's rules, which provide for cost-sharing among different levels of government, also encourage
public entities to insure their properties against natural disaster risk. Indeed during 1999, following a
catastrophic earthquake and floods, the state of Puebla placed insurance to limit its future financial
- 13-



exposure to natural disaster losses. Through SEDESOL, mechanisms are in place to ensure that
disaster-affected people are involved in decisions about how to best rebuild their lives.
Moreover, the project will provide support to develop an analytical framework for assessing and reducing
disaster risk in development projects and reconstruction investments. And it will support analytical studies
and technical assistance to underpin development of Mexico's first explicit program of prevention activities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government has invested substantially to develop disaster preparedness and civil defense programs led
by SEGOB and SEMARNAP, among others. It has provided support to establish CENAPRED as a center
for research and diffusion of prevention measures, and provided funding for university research on risk
assessment and modeling. Importantly, it established FONDEN in 1996. In mid-1998 following a period
of heavy losses from natural disasters, the government requested Bank assistance to improve its
management of natural disaster risks. In October 1998 the Bank undertook a study of how the govemment
was managing natural disasters, both in terms of preparedness and mitigation, and risk financing and
transfer. The study was well received by the government and stakeholders from academia and the private
sector when it was presented at a workshop in February 1999. In March 1999 the government amended
FONDEN's operating guidelines to reflect several of the suggestions raised at the workshop, and in
February 2000 it again refined the guidelines to reflect lessons gained through experience. The government
has now requested Bank support for development of prevention programs and for FONDEN's operations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In Mexico Bank resources accrue to the Treasury and government agencies have access only to resources
distributed to them through the annual public budget. Currently, federal agencies that agree to implement
Bank-supported projects may have to undertake them with no additional budgets. Under these conditions
knowledge transfer is a major contribution of the Bank. Thus, it makes sense for the Bank to concentrate
its efforts in areas where the Borrower can benefit from Bank knowledge and expertise.
One such area is natural disaster management. In 1998 the Bank established the Disaster Management
Facility (DMF) to ensure that its knowledge, expertise and ability to attract world class partners is used to
assist developing countries--where 95 percent of deaths from natural disasters occur. The DMF and
collaborating Bank Group units are well equipped to help Mexico find ways to increase protection, reduce
environmental degradation contributing to disasters, identify and implement prevention measures, and
devise ways to share natural disaster risks with the private sector. The DMF's expertise has already been
drawn upon for the design of the project. During project implementation the Bank will be able to provide
Mexican counterparts with expert advice through the DMF and the newly-established ProVention
Consortium, comprising government and business leaders, international agencies, non-governmental
organizations, academic institutions, and others.
Recognizing the Bank's capacity to mobilize expertise in natural disaster management, the government
requested assistance in refining FONDEN operations. It also requested help in developing methodologies
for defining prevention programs and assistance in understanding its options to use risk transfer
instruments more widely.
A Japanese PHRD grant has financed studies and technical assistance to begin developing the framework
for identifying priority prevention programs, so that investments generate the greatest return for the
resources spent. The grant is also supporting research on options for financing post-disaster reconstruction
costs including FONDEN's role as part of the financing system, work to develop risk maps for forest fires,
- 14-



a review of the municipal operations of the National System for Civil Protection (SINAPROC), and
development of a methodology for hazard mapping at the municipal level to support preparation of
prevention programs. It is expected that further studies will be carried out through the prevention and
capacity building components of the project and that in the medium term these will lead to formulation of
public investment programs for prevention works.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
C Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
In Mexico federal sectoral agencies are responsible for carrying out economic analysis of their investment
proposals. They use methodologies developed by SHCP through its Unit for Investment and Divestment of
Parastatal Entities in SHCP. These are disseminated through theCentro de Estudios de Planeacion y
Evaluacion de Proyectos, which provides training for public sector staff in project analysis through
regional universities. The project will rely on Mexico's existing practices of economic analysis.
Component 1: Prevention activities
Prevention studies and equipment are not subject to economic analysis.
Component 2: Emergency recovery and reconstruction investments
Emergency recovery investments are not subject to economic analysis.
Reconstruction investments are selected in accordance with methodologies acceptable to SHCP.
Component 3: Capacity building activities
Capacity building activities are not subject to economic analysis.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
FONDEN was created in 1996 to provide a dedicated source of federal budgetary resources to finance
disaster relief and reconstruction. Funds for FONDEN come from the general expenditure budget of
Mexico based on historic experience and information provided from several agencies, such as CENAPRED
and CNA. The FONDEN trust fund ffideicomiso FONDEN) established in 1999 is responsible for
accumulating and administering resources remaining in FONDEN's budget at the end of each fiscal year.
FMEs transfer FONDEN resources on a cost-shared basis to state and municipal governments.
Cost sharing between levels of government. FONDEN's rules provide for cost sharing between federal,
state and municipal governments. FONDEN finances 100 percent of the costs of repairing and
reconstructing federal infrastructure, 60-70 percent of the costs for state infrastructure and 20-50 percent
of costs for municipal infrastructure. Similarly, FONDEN shares costs of responding to forest fires and
rehabilitating damaged forests; restoring protected areas and other natural capital; programs for disaster
- 15-



victims, including income support, compensation for lost assets, and assistance to rebuild housing and
community infrastructure.
In 1996 FONDEN's budget was about US$100 million, in 1997 US$250 million, in 1998 US$450 million,
and in 1999 US$1 billion. The disasters varied over this time, with drought dominant in 1996, hurricanes
in 1997, floods in 1998, and earthquakes and floods in 1999. Because of the large rise in public
expenditures for post-disaster costs, the government is eager to find ways to reduce losses from natural
disasters through adoption of prevention measures. It is encouraging states and municipalities to adopt and
enforce higher engineering and building standards, inform people of natural disaster risks and risky areas,
prevent settlement in risky zones, and promote less risky behaviors.
Fiscal Impact:
In the short term the fiscal impact of expenditures on reconstruction activities is negative. However, once
reconstruction is complete, these expenditures lead to higher economic activity, which will generate tax
revenues resulting in positive fiscal impacts. Investments in prevention studies and capacity building will
have negative short term fiscal impacts. However, over the medium term they will save fiscal resources if
they lead to investments which reduce public sector losses from natural disasters.
3. Technical:
The project will finance a broad range of prevention studies, technical assistance activities, and emergency
recovery and reconstruction investments in major sectors, including for repair, reconstruction and
improvement of roads and bridges, other publicly owned structures,water supply and sanitation
infrastructure and restoration of environmentally sensitive areas and damaged cultural property.Technical
agencies executing the project will propose designs and operational arrangements for these investments,
reflecting generally accepted technical standards and operating practices appropriate to the respective
sectors. In general, the federal agencies which will carry out prevention activities and larger-scale
reconstruction projects have qualified and experienced technical staffs who either carry out the work
in-house or through consultants. Moreover,under the executing arrangements employed by the FMEs,
state and municipal agencies work under the technical guidance of the generally more experienced federal
agencies. Thus, the implementing agencies have adequatetechnical capacity, especially for the design of
routine infrastructure improvements. In the case of prevention studies, the project will help the federal
sectoral implementing agencies identify and use appropriate expertise to design programs to reduce the risk
of loss from natural disasters. It is anticipated that experts associated with the Bank's Disaster
Management Facility and sectoral specialists will provide guidance in this area.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
SHCP will provide resources to federal agencies (SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP, CNA, SCT,
SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP and SSA) to undertake eligible prevention and capacity building activities as
part of their annual work programs. These federal agencies generally have well-trained and competent
staff, and long experience with executing Bank projects and applying the Bank's procurement procedures.
In its Mexico City office, BANOBRAS (the Borrower's financial agent under the project) also has
expertise applying Bank procedures. Such expertise is now being developed in its state offices.
State and municipal agencies financed through FMEs are responsible for implementing FONDEN-financed
activities at the state and municipal levels. Technical committees comprising state and federal
representatives make key decisions regarding activities financed through the FMEs. Although FMEs are
- 16-



new institutions and inexperienced with Bank projects, they will have access to advice from federal
agencies and BANOBRAS (their trustee), which have considerable experience with Bank projects. During
project implementation, BANOBRAS will implement a training program in Bank procedures for its staff.
b. Project management:
The PCC will oversee project implementation. It will comprise representatives from BANOBRAS and the
executing agencies, as warranted. As described above, both BANOBRAS and the executing agencies have
considerable experience executing Bank projects. They also have experience with disaster management
issues. In the medium term the capacity building component will support programs to improve the ability
of implementing agencies to carry out project activities.
5. Social:
FONDEN provides resources in the immediate aftermath of natural disasters to enable victims to meet their
needs for food, clothing, medicines and shelter, and thus helps to save lives and speed recovery from
natural disasters. Aside from addressing immediate needs, FONDEN's resources are targeted to cover
losses of uninsurable property and to assist low-income people who are unable to obtain insurance.
Specifically, FONDEN assists low-income people (defined as those whose family incomes do not exceed
2.5 times minimum monthly wages of the region) repair or rebuild houses and restore water supply and
other services in communities. It also compensates low-income people for loss of productive assets (such
as fishing vessels and aquaculture ponds), and for lost sources of income (like crops, cattle, and trees).
And it helps people who lose their sources of income by funding temporary employment programs, which
hire people to repair or reconstruct damaged houses or infrastructure.
Resettlement
Natural disaster-displaced people. Natural disasters disproportionately affect impoverished people, who
live in substandard housing in vulnerable areas. FONDEN does not support the rebuilding of housing and
infrastructure in high-risk locations exposed to recurrent natural disasters, such as in floodplains. Instead it
provides affected communities with new land in low-risk zones and aid to rebuild housing and community
infrastructure to similar or better standards as previously existed. As a funding agency, FONDEN does not
directly manage the relocation process. Rather, this responsibility rests with SEDESOL through its urban
development, housing and social organization units, which coordinate closely with local agencies.
During the past two years of FONDEN operations, SEDESOL has refined resettlement practices through
its experiences dealing with victims of natural disasters, from involvement with Acapulco flood victims,
people displaced by Puebla's earthquake and floods, families left homeless by the Chiapas hurricane, and
refugees of flooding in Veracruz in October 1999. While the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
does not cover these cases of "natural disaster refugees," SEDESOL follows practices that are broadly
consistent with the Bank's OD 4.30. Under the project, SEDESOL will retain responsibility for assisting
disaster-displaced people in accordance with established practice in Mexico.
People relocated to allow construction of more resilient infrastructure. Reconstruction activities could
theoretically involve resettlement (for example construction of a washed-out road in a new alignment).
These cases are likely to be extremely rare. No disasters of the past few years have involved resettlement.
The 1999 floods in Veracruz significantly damaged 900 kilometers of roads and 18 bridges, but the one
road segment that was realigned between Veracruz and Coatzacoalcos did not involve resettlement. The
earthquake in September 1999 in Oaxaca damaged 4,600 kilometers of roads (including 3,600 kilometers
of rural roads) and 28 bridges, but again rehabilitation did not involve resettlement. Rebuilding of other
- 17-



types of infrastructure, such as water and electricity infrastructure, schools and the like does not involve
resettlement.
Resettlement framework. Although resettlement of people other than natural disaster refugees is expected
to be rare under the project, a resettlement framework has been agreed under the project to govern the
process if the need for resettlement does arise. This framework is based on FONDEN rules regarding
resettlement, good practices followed during recent resettlement experiences in Mexico and on the Bank's
recommendations. Specifically, the framework reflects the following principles:
*   Beneficiaries. All affected people are covered by the resettlement framework.
* Improvement or restoration offormer living standards. Government provides new land, housing and
titles in areas certified as safe by public authorities, basic services and community infrastructure,
compensation for losses of productive assets, and temporary employment for people who lose their
sources of income.
* Economic recovery activities. Government will take measures to help resettled people restore their
livelihoods.
*  Participation mechanisms. Comites de vivienda (housing committees), comprised of representatives
elected by community members, participate in decisions regarding resettlement and other issues
affecting the community.
Conclusion. The Bank team visited resettlement sites for disaster-displaced people in Puebla and Chiapas
and found the process to be working well. Infrastructure and housing in the new sites were built rapidly
and are in good condition. In Chiapas for example more than 12,000 new basic houses for poor households
were built in less than one year. All resettlement sites have basic infrastructure, a public garden and civic
plaza, and all have schools (completed or under construction) and other amenities. The housing
committees, which were organized after the disaster, still exist and oversee implementation of projects and
negotiate for further improvements.
The resettlement framework agreed under this project builds on these practices. Ongoing policy dialogue
will help to further improve the process and diffuse the application of good resettlement practices in
Mexico.
Indigenous people
In the event a natural disaster affects indigenous people, SEDESOL will continue to arrange for special
issues to be addressed in a manner consistent with the Bank's OD 4.20 through itsfnstituto Nacional
Indigenista (National Indigenous Institute) or other sources. This is accepted practice for FONDEN, and
has helped to address specific cultural needs and priorities of indigenous peoples during past disasters.
- 18 -



6. Environmental assessment:             Enviromnent Category: B (Partial Assessment)
For purposes of environmental assessment (EA) the project is classified as category B because no
subprojects are expected to have significant adverse environmental impacts. The vast majority of works
subprojects will involve repair or reconstruction of infrastructure works at their original sites. Subprojects
may occasionally involve capacity expansion (for example, water treatment), relocation' of infrastructure
(either to improve its resilience or to provide community services such as houses, schools and clinics), or
work in protected areas (mainly to restore ecosystems damaged in natural disasters). Both a negative and
positive list of eligible subprojects has been developed to provide clear guidance on eligible activities and
exclude activities with potentially significant environment impacts (Bank environmental category A) from
Bank financing. In addition, all nonemergency subprojects will be EA category C.
Mexican Environmental Law and regulations. Mexican Environmental Law (Ley General del
Equilibrio Ecol6gico y la Proteccion al Ambiente or LGEEPA) was enacted in 1988 and last modified in
1996. It requires an executing agency or responsible party (federal entity, state or municipal government,
or contractor) to obtain an environmental permit. This permit may require the responsible party to submit
an environmental impact assessment report to the National Ecology Institute (INE) for works and activities
that fall under federal jurisdiction and that may have negative environmental impacts. The law provides for
environmental assessment procedures which vary by type of works and their environmental impacts. A"
manifestaci6n de impacto ambiental" (MIA) is required for activities with the most significant
environmental impacts. An 'Ynforme preventivo " is required for activities carried out within urban
development or ecological zoning plans, or as part of an approved development program, and for activities
located in approved industrial parks, or for which environmental standards exist. The federal
environmental law sets minimum standards that state or municipal governments must adhere to. Moreover,
when regulated activities do not fall explicitly under federal jurisdiction, SEMARNAP may issue a
recommendation for environmental management to the relevant state or municipal authority. Thus, all
levels of government must apply minimum standards of environmental management. In emergencies, when
response speed is critical, Mexican law permits executing agencies to initiate works without prior
consultation with environmental authorities. However, within three days of initiating works, executing
agencies must inform SEMARNAP that works have started, and within twenty days of initiating works
they must provide SEMARNAP with a report on the types of works and associated mitigation and
compensation measures that will be undertaken. Mexico issued new environmental regulations in May
2000 reflecting experiences gained through environmental impact assessments. These regulations give
greater emphasis to sound natural resource management; refine the scope and content of EA procedures
and reports; provide more mechanisms for public consultation, citizen participation and complaint; and
include specific guidance on environmental permitting requirements in emergency situations. Eleven
sectoral guidelines for environmental assessment are expected to be enacted soon, and should help improve
the quality of environmental impact assessments.
Environmental management capacity of implementing agencies. A capacity assessment of the federal
implementing agencies participating in the project found that their capacity to manage environmental issues
in their investment programs is adequate.
Public consultation. The environmental law provides for public participation in the EA process. The new
regulations for environmental assessment emphasize the law's provisions related to public participation and
the right to information. They require that a list of all permit requests be published and that INE's analysis
of MIAs be made publicly available. The law also gives rights to any member of the public to request
public consultations on projects submitted to SEMARNAP via MIAs. However, public consultation is at
INE's discretion, and therefore not mandatory for all investments.
- 19 -



Cultural property. Mexico has a rich cultural heritage and archeological, artistic and historic sites are
distributed widely throughout the country. Therefore, natural disasters and subsequent reconstruction work
may uncover cultural property, requiring the use of "chance find" procedures to ensure that that qualified
personnel make decisions on management of the sites and materials. Natural disasters may also damage
cultural property (separate earthquakes striking Oaxaca and Puebla in 1999 damaged important
archeological sites and colonial buildings), which requires properly planned and supervised stabilization or
restoration measures.
Cultural property is highly valued in Mexico, and protected by national law, institutions and practices. The
federal law on archeological, artistic and historic monuments and sites defines archeological, artistic and
historic property and specifies the authority and responsibilities of cultural heritage agencies when sites or
materials of cultural significance are discovered. The law grants responsibility to the National Institute of
Anthropology and History (INAH) for archeological and historic property, and to the National Council of
Fine Arts and Culture and the National Institute of Fine Arts and Literature for artistic property. The law
requires any party finding cultural property to report the discovery to a local civil authority, which must
report the find to INAH within twenty four hours. The law further establishes INAH as the sole entity
authorized to excavate and research discoveries of cultural property, and empowers INAH to suspend any
works or activities carried out by unauthorized persons. To ensure adequate resources are available to
repair cultural property and sites damaged during natural disasters, FONDEN has recently incorporated
into its rules provisions for financing costs of rehabilitating national heritage buildings and sites. Mexico's
legal and regulatory framework is therefore consistent with the Bank's guidance on cultural heritage.
Through application of the environmental management plan (EMP) for the project (Annex 11), the project
will encourage integration of cultural and environmental protection in the reconstruction process.
Summary capacity assessment. Mexican laws and regulations dealing with environmental assessment and
management of "chance find" cultural property are broadly consistent with Bank environmental and
cultural property safeguards as defined in the Bank's operational policies on environmental assessments
(OP 4.01) and natural habitats (OP 4.04), and its guidance on treatment of cultural property.
SEMARNAP (including INE and PROFEPA) has adequate capacity to ensure that executing agencies
comply with Mexico's federal environmental laws and regulations, which establish minimum standards for
other jurisdictions. SEMARNAP has many years of experience and a large professional staff working in
diverse aspects of environmental management. Reinforcing this view, an ongoing Bank OED study finds
that SEMARNAP's environmental review and enforcement process is generally operating satisfactorily (its
agencies have benefited from considerable Bank technical assistance through the Mexico Environmental
Management Project, Northem Border Environment Project, and Water Resources Management Project).
The study points out that the Bank's annual reviews of Mexican environmental assessment have found a
steady increase in their quality and effectiveness. Moreover, principal federal implementing agencies have
adequate capacity to manage environmental issues faced in the emergency investments for which they are
responsible. Therefore, the project can rely on Mexico's established procedures as the basis for
environmental assessment for most emergency recovery and reconstruction works.
Environmental screening and review procedures. Activities financed by Bank loans are typically
subject to ex ante environmental screening, assessment and public consultation requirements pursuant to
the Bank's OP 4.01. However, in the case of emergency recovery loans, OP 4.01, para. 13 states that
"when compliance with any requirement of this policy would prevent the effective and timely achievement
of the objectives of an emergency recovery project, the Bank may exempt the project from such a
requirement."
- 20 -



Emergency recovery loans are govemed by the Bank's OP 8.50 and are made in response to an emergency
which has already occurred. The loan for this project is not made in response to an emergency which has
occurred prior to the processing of the project, and in this sense does not fit exactly within the bounds of
OP 8.50. Nevertheless, the emergency subprojects envisioned under the project will be made in response to
emergencies occurring before such subprojects are prepared, and thus will be subject to the same urgent
response imperative -- to protect affected lives and property -- as may justify exemptions (pursuant to OP
4.01, para. 13) from potentially time-consuming environmental requirements.
The only difference between a classic OP 8.50 emergency recovery project and the emergency subprojects
envisioned here is that the Bank cannot today, when the loan is being processed for approval, judge on the
ground, in the face of an actual emergency, the extent to which OP 4.01 environmental requirement
exemptions may be justified. Potentially, the Bank could perfonn such anex ante analysis for every
emergency subproject that arises post-loan approval by the Bank's Board, but this would imply Bank prior
review of each case, with the delays, impracticalities and Bank micro-scrutinv such prior review can signify
(all in the face, again, of an emergency requiring the quickest response). Given that the project
contemplates responses to potentially hundreds of "routine" natural disasters expected to occur throughout
all of Mexico's varied and extensive geography, such Bank micro-scrutiny could jeopardize the needed
speed of response implicit in any emergency, and hamper Mexico's sophisticated processes for dealing
swiftly with such cases through FONDEN.
Hence, the project, through a proposed application of OP 4.01 exemption policy as allowed in emergency
settings, provides for reliance on notification (by subproject implementing agencies to Mexican federal
environmental authorities deemed competent as indicated in the project's Environmental Management Plan)
of the emergency subproject activities falling under federal jurisdictionafter those activities have been
initiated. Nothing prevents such notification from being madeprior to such initiation, triggering full ex
ante environmental assessment under Mexican law if the local parties involved feel that the circumstances
so allow, despite the emergency nature of the situation. However, by applying the cited OP 4.01 exemption
possibility, any such ex ante environmental review, by the Bank or local environmental authorities, as well
as any ex ante public consultation on potential environmental impacts and mitigation, would not be
mandatory.
There may therefore be some risk that, in any given future subproject, an unwanted environmental impact
may occur because of said exemptions necessitated by the emergency nature of the response.
Consequently, the project legal documents specify a series of protective measures designed to minimize this
risk. Such measures include the following:
(a)    Specification of a "positive list" of activities that may be carried out under subprojects;
(b)    Specification of a "negative list" of activities that may not be carried out under subprojects (such
activities include what would typically be considered risky "category A" activities for environmental
purposes under Bank policy),
(c)    Mandatory ex ante Bank prior review of subprojects considered potentially risky because they
affect some protected areas, or are particularly large, involve relocation of infrastructure, or involve
expansion of infrastructure (see the project's Environmental Management Plan for details); and
(d)    Limitation of subprojects to those that involve initiation of on-site work within no later than 180
days after the official declaration of a disaster, the assumption being that work initiated afterwards is
indicative of the lack of a true emergency. The 180 day cut-off was established in consultation with Bank
- 21 -



environmental staff, and reflects their opinion that a soundex ante environmental assessment of a
subproject -- together with meaningful public consultation -- would take at least 180 days to perform.
Consequently, a subproject begun more than 180 days after a disaster declaration could have benefited
from such an assessment and consultation and would thus not require the exemptions proposed under OP
4.01, para. 13.
Procedures and schedules for Bank review. As part of its routine supervision process and midterm
review, the Bank will review performance of 1NE and PROFEPA in applying the environmental assessment
procedures, evaluate performance of executing agencies in addressing environmental issues in design and
implementation of subprojects, and agree on actions to be taken to improve performance. This will involve
visits by specialists to selected sites of subprojects for first-hand assessment of implementing agencies'
performance. They will assess the environmental and social impacts of subprojects, both individually and
cumulatively, and the adequacy of safeguard procedures agreed for the project. They will also evaluate the
extent to which the emergency was precipitated or exacerbated by inappropriate environmental practices
and propose remediation measures to be included in the project. The midterm review will consider
especially (a) any changes which should be introduced into the project's EMP or resettlement framework to
better mitigate emergencies arising from inappropriate environmental practices and apply the Bank's
safeguard policies during project execution, and (b) ways to modify the EMP's prior review triggers to
reflect the magnitude of the anticipated environmental and social impacts from the proposed interventions,
rather than reflect size alone. The implementation completion report will, among other aspects, evaluate
the effectiveness of executing agencies in addressing environmental and social issues, and draw lessons for
improvements in design and implementation of similar projects. It will also include an analysis of the
adequacy of the instruments used to apply Bank safeguard policies during project execution. Subprojects
implemented in violation of Mexico's laws for environment, EA procedures, or treatment of cultural
property will not be eligible for Bank financing. Details of the environmental assessment and review
procedures to be followed under the project appear in annex 11.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
FONDEN's direct beneficiaries are federal agencies and state and municipal govemments. FONDEN's
1999 guidelines were issued following previous experience in 1996-98, and extensive consultations with
stakeholders at the federal and state levels and the Bank. The 1999 guidelines were updated in February
2000, reflecting lessons learned from stakeholders during the first year of their application. The present
guidelines and any associated agreements supporting FMEs therefore represent a consensus among
stakeholders about the operations of FONDEN.
Disaster-affected people will participate in decisions affecting them, especially when the disaster requires
them to resettle. These processes are described in greater detail under the section on resettlement above.
b. Other key stakeholders:
- 22-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of project benefits will depend on government establishing an ongoing process of
identifying and implementing annual prevention investments, providing incentives to public entities to
insure properties against natural disaster risks and setfing up a system of post-disaster financing which is
efficient and effective.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Govemment agencies may not have the       M         The Bank is supporting development of a
capacity to accurately assess risks and             framework for identifying high priority
vulnerabilities, and to identify                    prevention investments and reducing risks
corresponding prevention programs.                  through policy, institutional and physical
measures through the PHRD grant and capacity
building component. The prevention component
would support analytical and design studies to
support development of prevention investment
programs.
Government may not provide adequate       M         The govemment is very committed to using
incentives to encourage public entities to          insurance more widely. The Bank is supporting
insure properties.                                  research into options for doing this.
Political factors could affect            N         Government publishes FONDEN guidelines so
implementation of FONDEN rules.                     that they are fully transparent. In the event of a
natural disaster government announces the terms
of FONDEN's assistance.
From Components to Outputs
Government does not allocate sufficient    S        The Bank is assisting the govemment to
funds for prevention programs.                      understand the importance of prevention and
helping it develop methodologies to select high
priority investments.
Government entities may not respect the   M         The Bank has recently completed an assessment
Bank's procurement rules.                           of the performance of government entities with
regard to procurement. BANOBRAS will assist
implementing agencies with the procurement
process.
- 23 -



The project is complex and information      M          A Project Coordinator will be appointed in
intensive.                                            SHCP, and BANOBRAS will assist the PCC
with project administration.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Resettlement and environment are potentially controversial aspects in any project.
In the case of resettlement, while it is not expected that the project will finance activities involving
involuntary resettlement, there is a small chance that as part of reconstruction works the government will
wish to move people living in risky areas to safer areas. It is also possible that reconstruction investments
will involve resettlement to allow, for example, for re-siting of damaged infrastructure to safer areas. For
cases involving involuntary resettlement, the Bank and the government have agreed upon a resettlement
framework consistent with the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, which will govern resettlement
activities carried out under the project.
In the case of environment, the environmental management plan (EMP) provides for a negative list and a
positive list designed to ensure that only Bank category B and C activities are financed by the project, and
prior review procedures have been included to ensure that subprojects with greatest environmental risk are
subject to prior scrutiny by the Bank (see Part E.6 above, "Environmental screening and review
procedures"). During project preparation a process of consultation on the EMP was started with
stakeholders in Mexico, including non-governmental organizations.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Government and BANOBRAS have entered into a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to the
Bank, to transfer the proceeds of the loan to the Government, and to transfer interest payments and
other debt service charges from the Government to BANOBRAS.
*   The Government has established a project coordinating committee (PCC) and appointed a project
coordinator.
*   SHCP has prepared and adopted an operating manual satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
3. Disbursement Condition
* None.
- 24 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
a  2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the star of
project implementation.
C: 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
qualitv.
a  4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The project will finance subprojects that have not yet been identified. Thus (2) and (3) are not appiicable.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[  2. The following exceptions to Bank poiicies are recommended for approval. TIe project compiies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
.,.       l\oow ,  \,: ,<                                              ,--. 
Christopher J. Barham               John Redwood                       Olivier Lafouruade
Team Leader                         Sector Oirector                    Country Manager
- 25-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
4000000USi:000  0    i40 0Key00   g  $Mion00torin             aluationti4    crliticallg;0   Asump -tions0i0
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve ability to manage    Outcome cannot be measured  Agency assessments      Stakeholders understand and
natural disaster risks and  quantitatively during the  (personal communication)    respond to incentives for
reduce recurrent losses.   project life.                                         prevention.
Government consistently
follows policies to encourage
public sector entities to insure
public properties.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Reduce the human, economic  Outcome cannot be measured  Agency assessments       Public entities invest in
and financial costs of natural  quantitatively during the  (personal communication)    prevention. FONDEN's
disasters.                 project life.                                         budget is sufficient to cover
disaster costs, avoiding need
to reallocate government
budget.
Reduce vulnerability of    Outcome cannot be measured  Agency assessments        Government is committed to
infrastructure to natural  quantitatively during the  (personal communication)    developing and implementing
forces.                    project life.                                         prevention programs.
Build institutional capacity to  Federal entities adopt new  Agency assessments (personal Government is committed to
support prior objectives.  procedures to improve natural communication).         improving procedures.
disaster management.
- 26 -



-Hie          Obives               Ini tor=            Moior
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1: At least SCT   Studies completed (for    Agency infonnation.         Government has the capacity
and CNA implement          example, for works to reduce                           to identify key risks and
analytical and/or design   flood damage or strengthen                             vulnerabilities for study.
studies explicitly intended to  bridges).
reduce losses to infrastructure                                                   Adequate federal budget
in the event of a natural                                                         resources are available.
disaster.
Policy and institutionl .Policy or institutional    Agency information.        Government has political will
Policy and institutionaltoirdueefms
reforms intended to reduce   measures adopted.                                    to mtroduce refoms.
vulnerability of infrastructure
Component 2: Goverunent is Number of days between the   FONDEN data.              Beneficiaries understand
able to respond quickly to  date a disaster is declared and                       FONDEN's rules so they can
natural disasters.         the date federal, state and                            easily comply.
local funds are allocated to
federal agencies or to state
FMEs.
Reconstruction proceeds    Trend in average number of   FONDEN data.              Beneficiaries understand
quickly.                   days between date funds are                            FONDEN's rules so they can
allocated and reconstruction                           easily comply.
is completed.
Resources are used as      Number of units built versus  FONDEN data.             Initial estimates are accurate.
authorized.                number initially programmed.
Final unit costs versus    FONDEN data.
estimated unit costs.
Costs are redistributed from    Trends in distribution of costs FONDEN data.      FONDEN's cost-sharing
the federal to state and   among levels of government.                            formulas are respected.
municipal governments.                                                            FONDEN beneficiaries
respond to incentives to insure
properties.
Component 3: Government  Federal entities adopt new    Agency assessments (personal Goverrnent is committed to
capacity to manage natural   procedures to improve natural conununication).       improving procedures and
disasters is strengthened.  disaster management.                                  provides resources for capacity
building.
Govenunent adopts guidelines SHCP assessments.
and procedures to encourage
use of insurance.
Municipal-level disaster   Number of days between      SINAPROC assessments.
response is improved.      issuance of a warning and
evacuation completed.
Share of population removed
from danger versus share
remaining at risk.
- 27-



HS.':rchy,'t 3:eeive              lnixao              Maitorin. .gEvaluatong  C g000  ritical  supin
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Prevention studies and  US$15.9 million           Periodic project progress  There is demand for Bank
equipment                                            reports.                   resources.
2. Emergency recovery and   US$633.3 million         Bank supervision reports.  Government is committed to
reconstruction                                                                  capacity building and allocates
adequate resources for it.
3. Capacity building.     US$5.1 million             Disbursement reports.
Implementation completion
report.
-28-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$15.90 million
Prevention activities
This component will finance analytical, design and policy-related studies and equipment aimed at reducing
economic and human losses in the event of a natural disaster. Prevention activities will be executed
through federal agencies as part of their annual investment programs. Participating federal agencies will be
SHCP, SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEP and SSA. At the
start of each (Mexican) fiscal year SHCP will agree with the Bank and the executing agencies upon the
prevention activities that the project will finance. Such activities, which will not include major civil works,
will be selected and implemented in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures,
and technical criteria acceptable to the Bank. These criteria will be included in the project's operating
manual. Technical criteria for prevention programs are detailed in annex 12.
Project Component 2 - US$633.30 million
Emergency recovery and emergency reconstruction investments
This component will support emergency recovery and reconstruction activities financed through FONDEN
and executed either through federal agencies or state and municipal agencies financed througlfideicomisos
mixtos estatales (FMEs). Emergency recovery activities are defined for purposes of the project as those
activities initiated within a time window extending 15 days before and 45 days after the declaration of an
emergency by SEGOB. These activities are subject to expedited procurement procedures. Reconstruction
activities are defined for purposes of the project as thoseinitiated between 45 and 180 days following the
declaration of an emergency by SEGOB. Reconstruction investments will be selected and implemented in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures, and environmental, social and technical
criteria acceptable to the Bank. Eligible emergency recovery and reconstruction expenditures include
net-of-tax FONDEN expenditures for activities that satisfy the environmental management plan included in
Annex 11, except for cash compensation paid to producers, purchases of equipment for disaster
preparedness, relief assistance, land, and activities not constituting investments
Project Component 3 - USS 5.10 million
Capacity building activities
This component will assist SHCP, SEGOB/CENAPRED, SEMARNAP/CNA, SCT, SAGAR, SEDESOL,
SEP and SSA to carry outdiagnostic studies, technical assistance programs, and training aimed at
strengthening their capacity to respond to natural disasters, manage social, cultural, or environmental
issues arising from natural disasters, and use insurance or other risk transfer instruments. It is envisaged
that this component will help develop a framework to enable sectoral implementing agencies to identify
priority prevention investments for inclusion in their annual programs.At the start of each (Mexican) fiscal
year SHCP will agree with the Bank and the executing agencies upon the capacity building activities that
the project will finance. Such investments will be selected and implemented in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines and procedures and technical criteria acceptable to the Bank. These criteria will be
included in the project's operating manual. Typical activities this component will support are shown in
annex 12.
- 29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
.... ............n           T ota
'.... ... .. ...   o      , C . n             U  ,     , 9S''mWin4   US $mZIIonf
Component 1: Prevention activities                      6.80         9.10        15.90
Component 2: Emergency recovery and reconstruction    322.70       310.60       633.30
Component 3: Capacity building activities               2.30         2.80         5.10
Total Baseline Cost                                   331.80       322.50       654.30
Physical Contingencies                                 O.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                    0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs           331.80       322.50       654.30
Front-end fee                   4.05         4.05
Total Financing Required           331.80       326.55       658.35
0~~~~~~ Cat. o                               US $mWio    US- $mw ;aifaNion   U- $mWi 0n 
Goods                                                    83.10        194.00      277.10
Works                                                   210.20         90.00       300.20
Services                                                 38.50         38.50       77.00
Training                                                  0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs   331.80       322.50       654.30
Front-end fee                   4.05        4.05
Total Financing Required   331.80        326.55       658.35
Nwmbers may not concur with those in other tables due to rounding.
- 30 -



Annex 4
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
In Mexico federal sectoral agencies are responsible for carrying out economic analysis of their investment
proposals. They use methodologies developed by SHCP through its Unit for Investment and Divestment of
Parastatal Entities in SHCP. These are disseminated through the Centro de Estudios de Planeacion y
Evaluacion de Proyectos, which provides training for public sector staff in project analysis through
regional universities. The project will rely on Mexico's existing practices of economic analysis.
Component 1: Prevention activities
Prevention studies and equipment financed by the project are not subject to economic analysis.
Component 2: Emergency recovery and reconstruction investments
Emergency recovery activities (defined for purposes of the project as those activities initiated within a time
window extending 15 days before and 45 days after the declaration of an emergency by SEGOB) are not
subject to economic analysis.
Reconstruction activities. The project will finance investments selected in accordance with methodologies
acceptable to SHCP.
Component 3: Capacity building activities
Capacity building activities are not subject to economic analysis.
Costs of natural disasters in Mexico, 1980-1999
Natural disasters cause substantial economic, financial and human losses each year in Mexico. The
following table presents deaths and property damage caused by natural disasters during 1980-98. Since the
table is based on estimates of verified financial costs, the related economic costs are most likely higher.
- 31 -



Year                      Event                      Deaths      Total property damage US$
millions
1980     Floods                                          3                        87
Droughts                                                               222.6
1982     Volcanic eruption                              42                      117.0
Hurricane Paul                                  0                       82.4
Floods                                          8                      114.6
1985     Earthquake Mexico City                      6,000                    4,104.0
Floods                                         43                      39.46
Rains                                           0                       16.4
1986     Forest fires                                                             1.5
1987     Snowstorms                                      6                        0.3
1988     Forest fires                                                           1,250
Droughts                                                               168.4
Hurricane Gilberto                           225                       76.0
Other hurricanes                              417                      597.6
Freezes                                        30                        0.6
1989     Forest fire                                                            684.0
1990     Freezes                                        52                        1.3
Hurricane Diana                               139                       90.7
Floods                                       200                        2.5
1991     Flood                                           5                        0.7
Winter storms                                                          16.8
1992     Rain and snow                                                            0.2
Thunderstorms                                                           11.8
Hurricane Winifred                                                       8.0
Winter storms                                  64                       78.0
Hail-storms                                                              2.5
Freezes                                                                 27.0
1993     Volcanic eruptions Popocatepetl 1993-1998       5                       12.0
Hurricane Gert                                                          18.1
Winter storms                                  23                       95.4
Freezes                                                                  0.1
1994     Droughts                                                                 3.5
Hailstorns                                                               0.3
1995     Hurricane Ismael                               56                       26.0
Hurricane Opal                                 14                      124.7
Earthquakes                               .                             21.1
Forest fires                                                             1.0
Droughts                                                                92.9
1996     Freezes                                       224                        5.3
1997     Hurricane Pauline                             228                      447.8
1998     Forest fires                                                         1,862.4
Hailstorms                                                               1.7
Torrential rains                              199                      602.7
Total   7,983                  11,116.36
Source: Bitran Bitrni 1999.
- 32-



The events and their costs can be grouped into the following categories, presented in the table below.
Category                       Total damages            Share of total
1981-98 (US$ millions)
Hydrometeorological disasters (floods,                    3,063.4            27.6
droughts, storms, hurricanes)
Geological (volcano eruptions,                            4,254.1            38.3
earthquakes)
Forest fires                                              3,798.9            34.2
Total                                                    11,116.4           100.0
Thus, disasters related to hydrometeorological events account for almost 30 percent of damage, geological
events for almost 40 percent and forest fires for about 35 percent. Eliminating the earthquake that hit
Mexico City in 1985 (which accounts for nearly all damage from seismic events), then the most frequent
events are due to hydrometeorological disasters and forest fires (even though the impact of one seismic
event may be much larger than many hydrometeorological events).
The proposed project will support programs designed to reduce damage from natural events. With losses
due to natural disasters totaling about 11 billion dollars over the past twenty years, many of which could
have been avoided by adequate prevention (it is estimated for example that construction costs increases of
only 1-4 percent would prevent most damage from earthquakes) the benefits of the proposed project are
clear.
Benefits from different types of disaster prevention investments
The following table shows the benefits that can be expected from different types of disaster prevention
investnents.
Investments                     Potential benefit categories
Flood (and flood     Structural: Protection of floodprone    Avoidance of damage to housing and
impact) prevention    areas, improved housing, relocation of  other infrastructure, avoidance of loss
high risk shanty settlements, improved  of lives, crops, production assets;
road and bridge construction.          avoidance of incidence of disease.
Non-structural: civil defense, early
warning systems, safety training, land use
and watershed management, flood and
enviromnental education.
- 33 -



Interventions in     Structural: construction of reservoirs,  Increase in water production (measured
drought prone areas   wells, desalinization plants, water    through tariffs or willingness-to-pay),
distribution systems, water treatment   improved health due to reduction in
plants. irrigation schemes.             waterbome diseases, time saved if
access to water sources is improved
Non-structural: community based early    through the project, reduced risk to
waming systems, improved soil          health or crop production in case of
management and cropping patterns.       drought, mitigation of social impacts in
case of drought.
Prevention of forest   Construction of fire breaks, early    Avoidance of damage to housing and
fires                warning systems.                        other infrastructure, avoidance of losses
of lives, crops, productive assets,
avoidance of health damage to
individuals, avoidance of loss of forest
productivity.
Prevention of        Early warning systems, functioning      Avoidance of damage to housing and
hurricane and storm    meteorological services, improved     other infrastructure, avoidance of health
impacts              building construction, changed cropping    damage to individuals, crops,
patterns.                              productive assets.
Decrease damage      Reinforce construction in buildings,    Avoidance of damage to infrastructure,
from seismic events   houses and other infrastructure, early  avoidance of loss of lives and capital,
waming systems.                        avoidance of health damage to
individuals.
Further guidance for economic analysis of prevention activities
It is envisaged that the PHRD grant-financed studies carried out as part of project preparation will generate
information and develop methodologies which will support development of an intersectoral investment
program of prevention projects that will provide high economic rates of return. The methodology to be
developed for this purpose will be based on cost-benefit analysis with benefits defined as damages avoided.
The framework will involve:
*   Probability that a natural event occurs of particular intensities in the country.
*   Probability that a certain type of disaster occurs in certain locations in the country (construction of a
risk map).
*   Estimates of expected losses from the principal natural hazards affecting Mexico. This involves
classifying exposure of assets to different hazard events, classifying structural vulnerability and
resistance, and estimating expected currency/dollar loss exposure (including likely maximum losses)
derived from these.
*   Expected minimum rates of return for prevention subprojects.
This methodology would provide a basis for the government to design future intersectoral investmnent
programs to reduce human and economic costs of natural disasters.
- 34 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
Years Ending
Year 1  I Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4      Year 5  I Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         126.0      164.0      164.0      200.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        126.0      164.0      164.0      200.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     4.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing            130.0      164.0      164.0      200.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  80.0      100.0      100.0     124.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                50.0       64.0       64.0      76.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central               25.0       32.0       32.0       38.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            25.0       32.0       32.0       38.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    130.0     164.0      164.0      200.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
State and municipal governments contribute about 20 percent to the cost of reconstruction programs.
- 35 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
Procurement
General
Procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank under the project shall be carried out in accordance
with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
Emergency recovery and emergency reconstruction activities
Emergency recovery activities are defined for purposes of the projects those activities for which work
under contracts for goods, works and consulting services is initiated within a time window extending 15
days before and 45 days after the declaration of an emergency by SEGOB. All other activities will be
considered as emergency reconstruction activities if they are initiated no later than 180 days after such
declaration.
Procurement responsibilities, capacity, and risk management
Based on the findings of a procurement assessment of executing agencies, experience witlprocuring
contracts under emergency conditions in Mexico, and the fact that monitoring of contracts not requiring
prior review by the Bank will be done through sampling, there is a risk that contracts not satisfyiing the
definition of emergency recovery activities as defined above will be included in the emergency recovery
component and procured through direct contracting. This may be especially true in the case of contracts
financed through the FMEs, which may be procured through state and local agencies with little familiarity
with Bank procurement requirements. The procurement risk for this project is therefore rated as high.
In order to mitigate this procurement risk, the following arrangements have been agreed with the Borrower:
(a)    BANOBRAS will ensure quality control of all procurement processes, liaise with the Bank and the
executing agencies, organize and maintain procurement records, draft quarterly reports, and be responsible
for project accounting, financial reporting, and compliance with audit and environmental requirements
agreed under the project. BANOBRAS will also review and confirm the eligibility of all procurement
contracts not subject to Bank prior review before signature by the contracting agency. The Loan
Agreement will assign these responsibilities to BANOBRAS, which will retain adequate staff for this
purpose.
(b)    A justification for the use of direct contracting in emergency activitieswill be required and will be
maintained on file. Such justification will clearly establish a causal relationship between the specific
emergency and the need for the direct contract Every quarter a copy of the justifications will be sent to the
Bank by BANOBRAS. The project will include annual procurement audits of selected contracts,
particularly those awarded on a sole source basis as a result of any specific emergency; and
(c)    During the first year of the project, BANOBRAS will implement a training program through which
appropriate staff will receive training in Bank procurement procedures.
- 36 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Grouping of contracts. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more each.
Notification and advertising. The invitation to bid for each contract to be awarded following
"International Competitive Bidding" (ICB) procedures estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more
shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Emergency reconstruction Works
Works estimated to cost more than US$10,000,000 equivalent per contract would be procured on the basis
of ICB procedures in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto. Works estimated to cost less than US$10,000,000 per contract up to an aggregated
amount of US$60,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded following "National Competitive
Bidding" (NCB) procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
using Standard Bidding Documents satisfactory to the Bank. Works estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 per contract up to an aggregated amount of US$25,000,000 may be procured through price
comparison, from a list of at least three contractors from at least two different states.
Emergency reconstruction goods
Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$500,000 equivalent per contract would be procured
following ICB procedures in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix I thereto. Goods estimated to cost less than US$500,000 per contract up to an aggregated
amount of US$20,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of NCB procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines using Standard Bidding
Documents satisfactory to the Bank. Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract up to an
aggregated amount of US$560,000 may be procured through National Shopping in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines from a list of at least three suppliers from at least
two different states.
Emergency reconstruction consultant services
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with Guidelines for the use of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers and the Bank as Executing Agency (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). Except as otherwise provided below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost Based Selection procedures (QCBS) in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to QCBS. The short list of
consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may consist entirely of national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. To obtain
expressions of interest, each contract estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised
in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.5 of the Guidelines.
Services of a straightforward nature that can be precisely defined and that are estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded followingLeast Cost
- 37-



Selection procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant
Guidelines, up to a maximum aggregate amount ofUS$7,500,000 equivalent. The short list of consultants
may consist entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines up to a maximum aggregate amount of
US$18,000,000 equivalent.
Emergency recovery activities
Procurement of goods and works for emergency recovery activitiesmay be carried out through direct
contracting of a supplier that has aprevious contract in force which had been awarded in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank and extended forthe additional goods and works of similar nature
required by the emergency in question In the cases where this possibility is not feasible, contracts for
goods costing more than US$500,000 equivalent; and works costing more than US$1,000, 000 shall be
procured by local shopping based on comparing prices obtained from at least three suppliers located in at
least two states. Contracts below these thresholds may be procured by direct contacting.
Consultant Services for design and supervision of emergency recovery works may be selected on a sole
source basis.
The aggregate amount of the loan available for emergency recovery goods, works and consulting services
will be US$200,000,000
Tables A and B, respectively present project cost by procurement arrangements and the threshold contract
value for the use of each procurement method .
Prior review
Emergency reconstruction activities
All civil works contracts estimated to cost US$3.0 million equivalent or more, ontracts for goods
estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or moreshall be subject to prior review by the Bank in
accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of the Appendix to the Guidelines. In
addition, the first two contracts in each state let by shopping procedures shall be subject to prior review by
the Bank.
Contracts for individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more, and consultant
services provided by a firm with an estimated to cost of US$100,000 equivalents or more shall be subject
to prior review by the Bank following the provisions set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Appendix 1 of
the Consultant Guidelines. In addition, all terms of reference for prevention studies and capacity building
activities shall be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Emergency recovery activities
For emergency recovery activities, prior review by the Bank will be required for all ICB contracts for
goods and civil works, and for consultants contracts over US$200,000 procured through LCS.
- 38 -



Post review and procurement audits
With respect to each contract not subject to prior review, complete records shall be maintained by
BANOBRAS for purposes of post-review and/or audit. Post-reviews of contracts may be carried out at any
time during project supervision. In the present case, it is recommended that post review be carried out
following each major disaster .
A justification for the use of direct contracting in emergency activities, clearly establishing a causal
relationship between the specific emergency and the contract would be required and would be maintained
on file. By the end of every quarter a copy of those justifications should be sent to the Bank. The project
will include annual procurement audits of selected contracts, particularly those awarded on a sole source
basis as a result of any specific emergency.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ProcummnentMt
.pnditur Cateory                 ic                                                 Totat Cost
1. Works                          100.00        50.20         150.00         0.00         300.20
(50.00)       (25.00)       (75.00)        (0.00)      (150.00)
2. Goods                         150.10         27.00         100.00         0.00         277.10
(94.00)       (17.00)       (63.00)        (0.00)      (174.00)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00          77.00         0.00         77.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (77.00)       (0.00)       (77.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00           0.00          4.05          0.00          4.05
(0.00)        (0.00)        (4.05)         (0.00)       (4.05)
Total                         250.10          77.20        331.05          0.00        658.35
(144.00)       (42.00)      (219.05)        (0.00)      (405.05)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consudting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services.
- 39 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            14.00     0.00      0.00      20.00      0.00     25.00      0.00      59.00
(14.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (20.00)    (0.00)    (25.00)    (0. 00)   (59.00)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      15.00      3.00      0.00      18.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (15.00)   (3.00)    (0.00)    (18.00)
Total   14.00     0.00      0.00      20.00     15.00     28.00      0.00      77.00
_  (14.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (20.00)   (15.00)   (28.00)    (0.00)    (77.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc., and Sole Source
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 40 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
-Contract Value                                Contwc upt $.biec to
Threstold              Procuremen-t             pr-or--  e  w
Expe-ndire Categoy             (Us$     A             Method
1. Works
Emergency recovery         Existing contract       Extension in scope            None
<1,000,000           Direct Contracting            None
>1,000,000           Shopping at least 3           None
contractors in at least 2  Only post review
states
>10,000,000                 ICB                      All
Emergency reconstruction     >10,000,000                 ICB                      All
<10,000,000                NCB                 Above 3,000,000
<500,000            Shopping at least 3    First two contracts per state
contractors in at least 2
states
2. Goods
Emergency recovery         Existing contract       Extension in scope            None
<500,000             Direct contracting            None
>500,000            Shopping at least 3            None
contractors in at least 2
states
>1,000,000                 ICB                      All
Emergency reconstruction
>500,000                  ICB                       All
<500,000                  NCB                      None
<100,000            Shopping at least 3   First 2 contracts per state
contractors in at least 2
states
- 41 -



3. Services
Emergency recovery           Anv amount                  SSS                     None
Firms and individuals         <200,000                   LCS                     Nonel
Emergency
reconstruction
Firms                         >100,000                  QCBS                      All
<100,000               QCBS-LCS                   TORs
Individuals                    >50,000                                            All
<50,000                  _                       TORs
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    Approximately
US$187 million.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
or following a disaster.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 42 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expen-itureCategoy           Amount in       h--. Financing  Prct Fg  =
Emergency recovery goods                   78.00                          85
Emergency recovery works                   83.00                          60
Emergency recovery services                15.00                          100
Emergency reconstructon goods              67.00                          85
Emergency reconstruction works             73.00                          60
Emergency reconstruction services          15.00                          100
Prevention and capacity building goods     60.00                          85
Prevention and capacity building            9.00                          100
services
Total Project Costs                        400.00
Front-end fee         4.05
Total                                      404.05
Numbers in table are rounded
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
During the project's initial stage traditional disbursement procedures (predominantly SOEs) will be used as
the basis for Bank loan disbursements. Withdrawal applications wuld be prepared by BANOBRAS based
upon information furnished by the federal implementing agencies and theFMEs. The SOE threshold will
be consistent with the prior review limits for procurement, and the federal implementing agencies and
FMEs will retain supporting documentation (on procurement, contracts, invoices, payments, and the like),
which will be subject to audit by independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit of
the project accounts maintained by BANOBRAS will include a review of SOEs in accordance with Bank
procedures and guidelines, and the Technical Memorandum of Understanding (MET) agreed between the
Bank and SECODAM in 2000. When the procedures for the flow of information from the implementing
agencies and the FMEs, and the budgeting and accounting systems are functioning effectively, the
Borrower may choose to switch to project management report-based (PMR) disbursements, consistent with
the Bank's Financial Management Initiative (FMI). Disbursements will then be based on quarterly project
reports (PMRs), which will consist of financial statements (sources and uses of funds by project category
and activity, expenditure forecasts for the following period, estimates of disbursements for the current
period, and a reconciliation of the Special Account), a report on physical project implementation, and a
report on bidding, contract award, and acquisitions under the project. The FMI system will operate in
accordance with the "Project Financial Management Manual," dated February 1999 and the "LACI
Implementation Handbook," dated September 1998, both published by the World Bank.
Special account:
Payments from the loan proceeds will be administered by BANOBRAS from a Special Account, which will
be maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank (Banco de Mexico). BANOBRAS will use data submitted
by executing agencies to prepare statements of expenditures (SOEs) and related loan withdrawal requests
for submission to the Bank. It will authorize disbursements from the Special Account to reimburse eligible
expenditures incurred or to make direct payments to suppliers for such expenditures.
- 43 -



The authorized allocation, sufficient for financing four months of eligible expenditures will be US$27.0
million.
Retroactive Financing. The Bank will provide retroactive financing for 20 percent of the loan amount
(US$80 million) for eligible expenditures for goods, works and services incurred within one year prior to
the date of loan signing. The justification for this amount of retroactive financing is thatlespite
extraordinary expenditures by FONDEN for disasters which occurred in the second semester of 1999, the
Govemment of Mexico did not request restructuring of ongoing Bank operations, since it assumed that
financing for disasters would have become available by end-1999 under this project. However, this was
not the case, owing to delays in loan processing. Approval of this retroactive financing amount was
obtained from the LAC RVP and OPR pursuant to Para. 3 of OP 12. 10.
- 44-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
Pro7ct SchedulE                                      anned                      A t a
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       4                             9
First Bank mission (identification)              07/07/99                      07/07/99
Appraisal mission departure                      11/15/99                      05/01/2000
Negotiations                                     11/15/99                      11/03/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/29/2000                    02/01/2001
Prepared by:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Piiblico SHCP)
Preparation assistance:
Japanese Population and Human Resources Development(PHRD) Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Christopher J. Barham              Senior Operations Officer
Howard Jones                       Financial Management Specialist
Maria Elena Castro                 Social Scientist
Victor Manuel Ordonez              Financial Management Specialist
Lea D. Braslavsky                  Senior Procurement Specialist
Michael Fowler                     Disbursement Officer
Wendy Ayres                        Economist
Karin Erika Kemper                 Economist
Ken Green                          Environmental Specialist
Ferenc Molnar                      Senior Counsel
Gustavo Unda                       Engineer
Michael Fowler                    Disbursement Officer
Jeannette Ramirez                  Operations Analyst
Santiago V. Sandoval              Language Team Assistant
Adrian Demayo                      Environmental Specialist
Ricardo Hernandez                  Environmental Specialist
Edmundo de Alba                   Environmental Specialist
Alberto Galan                      Environmental Specialist
- 45 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Not applicable
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept Document and Minutes of the Concept Review Meeting (9/28/99)
Draft Project Appraisal Document and Minutes of the Appraisal Decision Meeting (4/19/00)
Sector work to prepare project: Alcira Kreimer, et.al, 1999, Managing Disaster Risk in Mexico: Market
Incentivesfor Mitigation Investment. Working paperssupporting this study.
PHRD financed studies:
* Options for Financing Catastrophic Losses
* Methodologies for Risk Mapping
* Prevention Policy at the Municipal Level
* Economic Analysis of Prevention Projects
C. Other
Identification mission BTO
Preparation missions BTOs
Appraisal mission BTO
Project Information Document
Environmental Data Sheet
*Including electronic files
- 46 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P048505       1999 Mexico                     AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                             444.45       0.00       0 00    266 35     -15.70       0 00
P067491       2000 Mexico                     Bank Restructuring Facility                      50506        000        000     150.00      -5.06       0.00
P007700       1997 Mexico                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                15.00       0.00       0 00      7.81       1.91       0.00
P007610       1999 Mexico                     FOVI RESTRUCTURING                               505.05       0.00       0 00    462 00     242 00       0.00
P007723       1993 Mexico                     HWY RHB&SAFErY                                   480.00       0.00       000      10.50      1050        0.00
P007667       1992 Mexico                    IRRIG SCTR                                        400.00       0 00      50.00      2.85      5285        2.85
P044531       1998 Mexico                     KNOWLEDGE&INNOV.                                 300.00       0.00       0.00    253.77      1177        0.00
P007648       1993 Mexico                     MEDIUMCITIESTRANSP                               200.00       0.00      2300     109.01     126.91      9101
P066867       2000 Mexico                     MX DECENTRALIZATION SAL                          606.07       0.00      0 00     300 00     300.00       0 00
P066938       2000 Mexico                     MX GENDER (LIL)                                    3.07       0.00       0.00      307        0.00       000
P007720       1998 Mexico                     MX HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                    700.00       0.00       0 00    350 00     350 00       0 00
P040199       1998 Mexico                     MX: BASCEDUC.DEVELOPMENTPHASEl                   115.00       000        000      84.00      2918        0.00
P007689       1996 Mexico                     MX BASIC HEALTH II                               310 00       0 00       0.00     99.78      61 78      31 78
P055061       1998 Mexico                     MX HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                        25 00       0.00       0 00     21.39      15 59      0.00
P049895       1998 MexcorV MX HIGHER ED. FINANCING                                             180.20       0.00       000     165.94      26.00       0.00
P007725       1994 Mexico                     MX PRIMARY EDUC.II                               412.00       0.00      40.00     8625      12625       8625
P034490       1995 Mexico                     MX TECHNICAL EDUCITRAINING                       265.00       0.00      30.00    132.13     16213        710
P007710       1994 Mexico                     N. BORDER I ENYiRONM                             368.00       000      30099      36.22     31751       43.61
P007701       1994 Mexico                     ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                             200.00       0.00      30 00     53.71      83.71       0 01
P007711       1998 Mexico                     RURAL DEV. MARG AREA                              47.00       0.00       000      3594       12.94       000
P057530       2000 Mexico                     RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII                               55.00       0.00       0.00     55.00       0 00       0 00
P007702       1995 Mexico                     SECOND DECENTRALZTN                              500.00       0.00       0.00     58.28      58 28      58.28
P007612       1994 Mexico                     SOLID WASTEII                                    200.00       0.00     19306       1.48       -4.46      1.47
P007713       1996 Mexico                     WATER RESOURCES MANA                             186.50       0.00       0 00    138.41      59.09      10.62
P007707       1994 Mexico                     WATER/SANIT II                                   350.00       0.00      84.30     71 42     155.72       000
Total:    7372.40        0.00      751.35     2955 31   2178 90    332.98
- 47 -



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1988/91/92/93/95   Apasco                        14.40    0.00    0.00   57.60   14.40    0.00    0.00   57.60
1998               Ayvi                          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96         BANAMEX                       96.21    0.00    0.00   50.83   96.21    0.00    0.00   50.83
1997               Banco Bilbao MXC              75.52    0.00   30.00    0.00   75.52    0.00   30.00    0.00
1992               Banorte-SABROZA                3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96            Baring Mex. FMC                0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
1995/99            Baring Venture                 0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Mexico                    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Puebla                    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               CTAPV                         4.01    0.00    2.53    0.00    4.01    0.00    2.53    0.00
0                Chiapas-Propalma               0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00
1997               Comercializadora               3.28    0.00    2.34    6.88    3.28    0.00    2.34    6.88
1990/91            Condumex                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Corsa                         13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Derivados                     2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Fondo Chiapas                  0.00    4.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31     0.00    0.00
1998               Forja Monterrey               13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00   13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00
1991/96            GIBSA                        21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76   21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76
1993               GIDESA                         7.50    8.00    0.00    8.50    7.50    8.00    0.00    8.50
1996/00            GIRSA                         45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   22.71    0.00    0.00   30.29
1993               GOTM                          0.98    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.44
1997198            Gen. Hipotecaria              0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Grupo Calidra                 12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00   12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00
Grupo FEMSA                   0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00
1989               Grupo Minsa                   18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00   18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00
1997               Grupo Posadas                25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00
1992/93/95/96/99   Grupo Probursa                0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97/98      Grupo Sanfandila               9.58    0.00    0.00    4.70    6.25    0.00    0.00    3.03
1998               Heller Financial              0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00      Interceramic                   8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50    8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50
1994               InverCap                      0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Masterpak                      2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Merida III                    30.00    0.00    0.00   73.95   27.36    0.00    0.00   67.44
1998               Mexplus Puertos                0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1995/99            NEMAK                         0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00
1996/99/00         Petrocel                       1.30    0.00    0.60    0.70    1.30    0.00    0.60    0.70
1990               Punta Langosta                2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55    2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55
1998               Rio Bravo                     50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Saltillo SA.                  35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Sigma                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/94/95         Sudamerica                     0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999               TMA                           2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60    2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60
1997               Toluca Toll Road              7.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Vitro                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/92
Total Portfolio:      525.61   98.54   64.40  518.58  408.85   67.85   64.40  378.19
- 48-



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              Altamira                      17800.00   1000.00      0.00  38000.00
1999              BANAMEX LRF II                50000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              Baring BMPEF FMC                  0.00      0.00    60.00      0.00
1998              Cima Hermosillo                7000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              Educacion                      9700.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              FCCM                          10500.00      0.00   2000.00  17700.00
2000              Hospital ABC                  30000.00      0.00      0.00  14000.00
2000              ITR                           14000.00      0.00      0.00   4000.00
2000              Innopack                      15000.00      0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000              Teksid Aluminio               25000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              Teksid Hierro                 15000.00      0.00      0.00  30000.00
Total Pending Commitment:   194000.00   1000.00  17060.00 103700.00
- 49 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: Natural Disaster Management Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  income        Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-vear (millions)                        95.9       502       588                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    3,970     3,940      4,860
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      380.9      1,978     2,862
Average annual growth, 1992-98                                                                          l
Population (%)                                          1.8        1.6       1.4
Labor force I%)                                         2.6        2.3       2.0      GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                per                        -    primary
capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban Dopulation (% of total poPulation)                74         75        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72         70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                31         32        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               14         8                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   95        75        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    10         13        11
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)        115       113       108              Mexico
Male                                                 116                                   Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           87.4    140.2      401.7      410.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                21.6      19.2      26.0       24.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP             8.6      19.5      30 3      312                       Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                   20.6      25.3      26.0       22.4
Gross national savings/GDP                    18.2     218       24.1       20.6
Current account balance/GDP                   -2.2      3.0      -1.9       -3.8     Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                          1.8      5.5       2.1       2.0      Somesti                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                               35.7      78.1      37.3       39.0     Savings
Total debt service/exports                   57.4      40.1      32.4       18.8
Present value of debt/GDP                       .        ..      36.0      36.2
Present value of debt/exports                   .        ..     110.3      106.0
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.2      2.9       6.8        4.8       4.8           -Mexico
GNP per capita                       0.1      0.5       6.0        2,9       2.9               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services        9.4     12,3      10.8        9.7       69
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           40
Aoriculture                                   10.2      8.6        5.7       5.4
Industrv                                     30.7      35.9      28.5      291       20
Manufacturinq                               22.4     25.7       21.4      21.9
Services                                     59.1      55.5      65.8       65.5    .20      99    97   98
Private consumPtion                          69.6      65.9      64.1       68.2    -40
General aovernment consumption                9.8       8.8       9.9        9.4                     GDI    * 0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 9.6      13.4      30.4      33.2
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aoriculture                                    2.2      1.6        0.2       0.5    40
Industrv                                      2.7       3.5       9.3        6.6
Manufacturing                                2.3      3.9       10.0       7.4     20
Services                                      2.1       2.7       6.4        4.4
Private consumption                           2.2       2.5       6.4        6.4                             S's  9'7  9a
General aovernment consumption                5.2       1.8       2.9       -1.3
Gross domestic investment                    -4.6       4.1      25.0        8.4    20
Imports of qoods and services                 -1.3     12.1      22.8       14.2                   Exports     a-Imports
Gross national Product                        2.6       2.4       7.9        4.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-oroup averaoe. If data are missino, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 50 -



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(X change)                                                                         40 -
Consumer prices                                 ..   131.8       20.6      15.9    30
Implicit GDP deflator                         25.6   137.3       17.7      13.8    20
Govemment finance                                                                  10
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)                                                 o 
Current revenue                                 ..    29.5       23.0      20.6            93   94    95   98   97   95
Current budget balance                          ..   -10.3        3.1       2.3                    GDP deflator  - e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -15.0       -0.7      -1.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  22,093   110,431   117,500     150000
Oil                                           ..   8,630    11,323      7,147
Agriculture                                   ..   1,543      3,828     3,954      0                                  -i
Manufactures                                   ..  11,344    94,802   105,933     100,0
Total imports (cif)                             ..  13,305   109,808   125,242
Consumer goods                                 ..    768      9,326    11,108     50,0o8
Intermediate goods                                  9,907    85,366   96,805
Capital goods                                 .. 2,631    15,116    17,329 
92  93  94  95  98  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                   ,.      93       101        99
Import prce index (1995=100)                    ..      80       101       103                C Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    115        100        96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mriions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               7,792   27,509   121,701   129,427      0
Imports of goods and services               7,665   18,387   121,608   137,729
Resource balance                              127    9,121        94   -8,302    -2
Net income                                  -2,151   -6,801   -12,790   -13,497
Net currenttransfers                           88    1,919      5,247    6,012    -4
Current account balance                     -1,936    4,239    -7,448   -15,786 -
Financing items (net)                       2,558    1,861    17,942    17,923
Changes in net reserves                      -622   -6,100   -10,494    -2,137    -8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milions)          ..  12,590    28,815   29,032
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)            2.26E-2     1.4        8.8      9 6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ mnuilons)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions]
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       31,179  109,459   149,690   159,962
IBRD                                      1,374    7,347    11,356    11,514            G: 28,507     A: 11,514
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Total debt service                          4,715   12,083    42,453   26,294                                      D 12,863
IBRD                                       -152    1,072      2,102    2.027
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Es 5.475
Composition of net resou rce flows
Official grants                               9       75        29
Official creditors                          299      888    -4,563       129
Private creditors                         4,407    2,891      6,003    3,943
Foreign direct investment                   556    3,246    12,478    10,238
Portfolio equity                              0        0      3,215     -666
World Bank program                                                                              FS 93,573
Commitments                                 162    1,695       530     2,212      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               202      983       995     1,986      B - IDA    D - Other muiilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         50      567      1,311    1,257      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   152      416       -316      729
Interest payments                           102      505       791       769
Net transfers                                50      -89    -1,107       41
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/3/99
- 51 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
MEXICO: NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Management Plan
Introduction
1.    The Mexico Natural Disaster Management Project will provide resources for post-disaster
emergency recovery and reconstruction financed by FONDEN and executed either through SCT, CNA,
SEMARNAP, SEDESOL, SAGAR, SEP and SS orfideicomisos mixtos estatales (FMEs). To be eligible
for Bank-financing, works must be initiated within 15 days prior to and 180 days following the declaration
of emergency by the Secretary of Interior (SEGOB). Exceptions to this 180 day limit may be agreed by the
Bank on a case-by-case basis when the nature of the disaster prevents initiation of on-site works after the
disaster is declared, such as in the case of non-receding flood waters. The project will also finance policy
and institutional reforms and equipment aimed at reducing vulnerability of infrastructure and communities
to natural events, and capacity building activities to strengthen the capacities of environmental and sectoral
implementing agencies to manage environmental issues.
2.    Because the emergency recovery and reconstruction subprojects that the project will finance will be
defined and carried out after an emergency has occurred, such subprojects are deemed analogous to
emergency recovery projects under Bank OP 8.50 for environmental purposes (see OP 4.01. para. 13).
3.    For purposes of environmental assessment (EA), the project is classified as category B because no
eligible subprojects are expected to have significant adverse environmental impacts. All studies and
capacity building activities will be environmental assessment category C.
4.    This environmental management plan (EMP) was prepared on the basis of a review of Mexican
environmental laws and regulations and extensive consultations with federal environmental authorities and
the executing agencies, including initial consultations with local NGOs and executing agencies on proposed
environmental assessment procedures, public consultation measures, and actions to protect cultural
property under the project. It describes Mexico's environmental regulations and institutional arrangements
for EA, especially as they apply to emergency recovery and reconstruction subprojects not normally subject
to prior review by the Bank; assesses institutional capacity to carry out EA; and provides a negative list of
subprojects that the project will not finance and a positive list of subprojects that it can. This EMP also
outlines proposed EA arrangements for each type of subproject financed by the project, describes how
cultural property will be treated and how public consultation will occur, sets out the procedures for
reporting and Bank supervision and monitoring, and outlines contemplated capacity development activities.
Mexican environmental law
5.    The Mexican Environmental Law (hey General del Equilibrio Ecologico y la Protecci6n al
Ambiente or LGEEPA) was enacted in 1988 and last modified in 1996. It requires an executing agency or
responsible party (federal entity, state or municipal government, or contractor) to obtain an environmental
permit. This permit may require the responsible party to submit an environmental imnpact assessment
report to the National Ecology Institute (INE) for works and activities that fall under federal jurisdiction
- 52 -



and that may have negative environmental impacts. The law provides for environmental assessment
procedures which vary by type of works and their environmental impacts. A full environmental impact
assessment "rmanifestaci6n de impacto ambiental" (MIA) is required for activities with the most
significant environmental impacts. A preventive report (nforme preventivo) is required for activities
carried out within an urban development or ecological zoning plan or as part of an approved development
program, and for activities located in approved industrial parks or for which environmental standards exist.
For other activities, such as those implemented following natural disasters, notification to SEMARNAP is
required (article 8 of the regulations).
6.    The federal environmental law sets minimum standards that state or municipal governments must
adhere to. The federal law therefore establishes minimum standards for environmental compliance in
Mexico. Moreover, even when regulated activities do not fall explicitly under federal jurisdiction,
SEMARNAP may issue a recommendation for environmental management to the relevant state or
municipal authority (federal law article 5, paragraph XVIII). Thus, all levels of govemment in Mexico
must apply minimum standards of environmental management.
7.    In emergencies, when speed of response is critical, Mexican law permits executing agencies to
initiate works without prior consultation with environmental authorities. However, within three days of
initiating works, executing agencies are required to inform SEMARNAP that works have started, and
within twenty days of initiating works they must provide SEMARNAP with a descriptive report on the
types of works and associated mitigation and compensation measures that will be undertaken (article 7 and
8 of regulations).
Mexican environmental regulations and sectoral guidelines
8.    Mexico issued new environmental regulations in May 2000 reflecting experiences gained through
environmental impact assessments. The new regulations give greater emphasis to the sound management of
natural resources (for example, forests, wild lands and arid zones), refine the types of environmental
impacts to be taken into account (for example, significant, synergetic, cumulative and residual risks),
provide for the issuance of sectoral guidelines, provide more mechanisms for public consultation, citizen
participation and complaint, introduce new measures to ensure compliance with environmental regulations
(for example, liability insurance), simplify environmental assessment procedures, and include specific
guidance on environmental permitting requirements in emergency situations.
9.    In accordance with the new environmental regulations, eleven sectoral guidelines for environmental
assessment have been released for public comment and are expccted to be enacted soor(reference
www.ine.gob.mxldgoeia/impacto/guias.html). They provide details on information required forinforme
preventivos and MIAs, including data requirements, applicable regulations, types of impacts to be
considered and the like. Once they are^enacted, the guidelines should help improve the quality of
environmental impact assessments. The eleven guidelines cover the following sectors:
* Energy (electricity generation, transmission and transportation):
Hydro, thermo and geoelectric
Wind and nuclear energy
Substations and transmission lines
* Fishing and aquaculture:
Seeding and repopulation of water bodies
Production units at water bodies
- 53 -



Farms, labs and seed production centers
* Water works:
Treatment, potable water, and desalting plants
Water infrastructure
*   Tourism:
Hotels, condominiums, marinas, decks
Beach restoration, ecotourism
Maritime and river works
Restaurants and the like
Wildlife exhibition centers, golf courses
*   Agriculture and cattle raising:
All crops and cattle raising activities that will result in land use change of forest soil
Cattle raising infrastructure
*   Industry:
Production infrastructure
Risk activities and installations
Access infrastructure
*   Petroleum:
Marine infrastructure and activities
Land infrastructure and seismological activities
Ducts, warehouses, refining, petrochemical and other related industrial plants
*   Forestry:
Access roads
Production, warehouses, sanitawy installations and carnps
Water treatment plants
*   Mining:
Infrastructure, residue deposits, complementary works, leaching areas
Explosive storage
Surface mining
*   Roads and other communication infrastructure:
Roads and motorways
Rail and ports infrastructure
Airports and heliports
* Hazardous waste:
Infrastructure construction
Reception and transfer centers
Storage of explosives
Provision for protected areas under Mexican law
- 54-



10.    Works carried out in federal protected areas require SEMARNAP's prior review regarding
environmental impacts and authorization to proceed. Management plans are one of the principal
instruments for managing works in these areas. Presently 21 out of 127 federal protected areas have
management plans. In protected areas where management plans exist, federal environmental procedures
require preparation of informes preventvos before works can be undertaken. Activities-that are exempt
from environmental assessment requirements include production for one's own consumption and domestic
use by settled communities, and activities necessary for conservation, maintenance and enforcement.
(article 5 S, regulations).
Provisions for cultural property
11.    Mexico has a rich cultural heritage and archeological, artistic and historic sites are distributed
widely throughout the country. Natural disasters and subsequent reconstruction work may therefore
uncover buried cultural property, requiring the use of "chance find" procedures to ensure thatlualified
personnel make decisions on the management of sites and materials. Natural disasters may also damage
cultural property (separate earthquakes striking Oaxaca and Puebla in 1999 damaged important
archeological sites and colonial buildings), which requires properly planned and supervised stabilization or
restoration measures.
12.    Cultural property is highly valued in Mexico, and protected by national law, institutions and
practices. The federal law on archeological, artistic and historic monuments and sites defines
archeological, artistic and historic property (articles 27 and 28) and specifies the authority and
responsibilities of cultural heritage agencies when sites or materials of cultural significance are discovered
during construction.
13     The law grants responsibility to the National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) for
archeological and historic property, and to the National Council of Fine Arts and Culture and the National
Institute of Fine Arts and Literature for artistic property. INAH and the National Institute of Fine Arts and
Literature both fall under the Ministry of Public Education. INAH has offices in every state, and has over
400 researchers devoted to rescue activities.
14.    The law requires any party finding cultural property to report the discovery to a local civil
authority, which in tum must report the find to INAH within 24 hours. The law further establishes INAH
as the sole entity authorized to excavate and research discoveries of cultural property (article 30), and
empowers INAH to suspend any works or activities carried out by unnauthorized persons (article 32).
INAH may also impose fines and even cause violators to be placed in preventive detention. Mexico's
existing legal and regulatory framework is therefore consistent with the Bank's guidance on cultural
heritage.
15.   The project will support FONDEN's programs to restore cultural property damaged by natural
disasters. Moreover, SEMARNAP would be encouraged to help strengthen the synergies between
measures to protect the environment and those to protect cultural heritage by incorporating Mexican law
and regulations covering cultural property in the guidelines that it will develop for handling environmental
issues during emergencies (paragraph 48).
Public consultation
16.    The environmental law is based on the assumption that the federal government will share
responsibility with civil society in the planning, execution, evaluation and enforcement of environmental
- 55 -



and natural resource policies. The new regulations for environmental assessment emphasize the law's
provisions related to public participation and the right to information. They require that a list of all permit
requests be published and that INE's analysis of MIAs be made publicly available. The law also gives
rights to any member of the public to request public consultations on projects for which aMIA is submitted
to SEMARNAP.
17.    Once a project's sponsor submits an environmental impact assessment (nforme preventivo or
manifestaci6n de impacto ambiental) and all the required information to INE, a notification of the action is
published in the official ecological newsletter (kaceta Ecol6gica, article 31 of the environmental law and
article 37 of the regulations).
18.   The project's sponsor submits a copy of the MIA to INE for public consultation, containing all the
information originally included in the report, plus any additional information requested by INE. The
project's sponsor must disclose all information that is not protected by intellectual or commercial rights.
19.   Any member of the public may obtain a copy of the MIA. If INE or another interested party
regards information excluded from the report as relevant for public consultation, INE will ask the sponsor
to justify its claim regarding intellectual or commercial rights or else to include the information in the copy
of the report. INE has established an information center where people can obtain information on the
environmental aspects of projects, in accordance with article 5, paragraph XVII of the environmental law.
Any person or entity who believes that the works or activities underway, covered by a MIA, exceed the
limits or conditions allowed for under the law or the environmental technical norms (ormas t&nicas
ecol6gicas) is entitled to ask for a public consultation,
20.   INE will evaluate the environmental impact assessment and will respond in no more than 30
working days. In the meantime, INE can demand the suspension or closure of the activities or works when
there is a risk of environmental damage or risk to public health. However, public consultation is at INE's
discretion, and therefore is not mandatory for all investments.
Institutional arrangements and capacity to implement environmental protection procedures
21.    SEMARNAP consists of a series of subministries (such as Planning, Natural Resources and
Fisheries) and a series of autonomous agencies (such as INE, PROFEPA, CNA, the National Fisheries
Institute and the Mexican Institute of Water Technology). For environmental impact assessments,
SEMARNAP evaluates environmental impacts of proposed activities; issues authorizations; formulates,
publishes and disseminates guidelines for the presentation of the diverse environmental assessment
documents required by the regulations; conducts public consultations and hearings as required; and
supervises and enforces the regulations and corresponding resolutions. SEMARNAP has over 30,000
staff, sixty percent of whom are based-in state delegations.
22.   INE is responsible for reviewing environmental impact assessments and issuing permits for
activities falling under federal jurisdiction. INE is an autonomous agency attached to SEMARNAP. It has
about 1,500 staff, of which about 200 are assigned to state delegations. Many of these staff are
university-trained professionals. INE formulates, publishes and disseminates guidelines for the
presentation of various environmental assessment documents. INE has analyzedinformes preventivos and
manifestaciones for 6,978 projects between 1990 and April 2000. About 96 percent of them were
preventive reports and environmental impact assessments of the then "general" type. About 73 percent
were approved, but only I percent without conditions. All the "specific" MIA's were conditioned by the
permit process, and 83 percent were rejected in the first instance. During 1999, INE subjected about 1,050
- 56 -



projects to enviromnental assessment. By June 2000 INE had subjected 700 new projects to environmental
assessment. Many of the projects were in forestry, roads, communications and water works, sectors often
affected by natural disasters.
23.    PROFEPA is responsible for overseeing and enforcing Mexican environmental law and its
regulations. PROFEPA has about 3,100 staff, of which about 1,500 are based in its state delegations.
Through its state offices it carries out site inspections and penalizes the project sponsors in accordance with
the law. The percentage of serious violations that were sanctioned declined from 26 percent in 1992 (when
PROFEPA was established), to 2.1 percent in 1995 and to 1.6 percent in 1998. This may be interpreted as
evidence of increasing compliance with environmental regulations in Mexico.
24.    SEMARNAP, [NE and PROFEPA have central offices in Mexico City as well as state level
offices. During the past few years, as part of the decentralization process, government has been delegating
increasing responsibilities to state offices, which are developing capacity to carry them out. Recently, it
was decided to decentralize all activities related to environmental impact assessments to regional offices,
while retaining regulatory functions in the central office. Many professional staff will move from the
central to regional offices in correspondence with the shift in responsibilities. A training workshop to
disseminate the new environmental regulations and sectoral guidelines was recently held for regional staff
from SEMARNAP and state and local government officials from 20 states. Funding for five additional
training programs (with 100 participants each) has been included in the 2001 budget.
25.    SEMARNAP has adequate capacity to ensure that executing agencies comply with Mexico's
federal environmental laws and regulations. It has many years of experience and a large professional staff
working in diverse aspects of environmental management. Reinforcing this view, an ongoing Bank OED
study finds that SEMARNAP's environmental review and enforcement process is generally operating
satisfactorily (its agencies have benefited from considerable Bank technical assistance through the Mexico
Environmental Management Project, Northern Border Environment Project, and Water Resources
Management Project). The study points out that the Bank's annual reviews of Mexican environmental
assessment have found a steady increase in their quality and effectiveness.
Capacity assessment of implementing agencies for environmental management
26.    The types of works most likely to be damaged in natural disasters include roads and bridges, water
works, community infrastructure, and farm infrastructure. During project preparation, the Task Team
assessed the capacity and historical record of the various federal implementing agencies likely to be
involved with reconstructing works (directly or subcontracted) damaged through a natural disaster.
27.    For SCT, works typically include repair of roads and repair and replacement of bridges following
original alignments. Generally, SCT incorporated improved design standards in the new works to improve
their safety (for example, for road drainage and bridges). For CNA, works typically involved restoring
potable water services, repairing sewage disposal facilities, and repairing and improving flood control
infrastructure and canals. In general, SEDESOL coordinates and finances housing reconstruction, rather
than constructing housing itself. Typically, it finances self-construction housing kits, or arranges for
construction of housing estates in collaboration with state and municipal authorities. SEDESOL's primary
role is to identify beneficiaries and ensure their participation in all pertinent decisions, and to assure that
new housing sites are suitable and safe. SAGAR, working through FIRCO and local authorities, focuses
on developing small watering points and other nonfarm infrastructure to combat effects of drought, frost
and floods. SAGAR also informs farmers and promotes the use of species that are resistant to adverse
weather conditions. SEMARNAP focuses on sustainable natural resource management. In collaboration
- 57 -



with other federal, state and local entities, it acts to prevent and fight forest fires. It also helps restore
forests and protected areas that have been damaged by natural disasters, removing debris, planting trees
and taking other restorative measures. SEP oversees and finances the repair and reconstruction of public
educational institutions by local authorities, with the intention of restoring the quality of educational
services. Through the National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) and the National Institute of
Fine Arts and Literature (INBA), it also finances repair and reconstruction of cultural monuments. Finally,
SSA, which does not execute works itself, contracts and oversees reconstruction of health infrastructure,
including clinics and public hospitals. It also monitors the state of public health in stricken areas.
28.    Clearly, the complexity of the environmental issues to be addressed varies greatly. Thus, CNA and
SCT generally deal with more complex environmental issues than the other implementing agencies because
they deal with larger and more complex structures. In fact, the environmental management capacity of the
various agencies corresponds closely with their direct environmental responsibilities,and the agencies have
adequate capacity to ensure environmental compliance Both CNA and SCT have dedicated environmental
units (dealing with environmental impacts both under normal and disaster conditions), while other agencies
rely upon more general technical staff or outsourcing for environmental expertise. In all cases, the
executing agency staff are aware of the requirements of the environmental law and their obligations to
comply with environmental regulations, and have adequate capacity to ensure environmental compliance.
They are also keen to receive additional training and information conceming environmental issues related to
disaster episodes. Local authorities responsible for disaster management express similar views.
29.    The vast majority of reconstruction activities following natural disasters involves restoration of
small infrastructure at its original site, which cause minor environmental impacts and are not controversial
(similar to environmental category C). Occasionally, it is decided to expand capacity (for example, water
treatment), relocate infrastructure (either to improve its resilience or to provide community services such as
houses, schools and clinics), or undertake work in protected areas. These activities may affect the
environment (similar to category B). The negative list below excludes category A activities for financing
under the project.
Environmental assessment procedures for subprojects financed by the Bank
Negative list
30.    The project will not finance any subproject which will be classified as category A under the Bank's
EA policy, or subprojects which are implemented in violation of Mexico's environmental laws and
environmental impact assessment procedures, or Mexico's laws on treatment of cultural heritage.
Specifically, subprojects involving the following activities will be excluded from financing:
*   Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening.
*   Activities affecting natural protected areas recognized by federal, state or municipal governnents (or
buffer zones thereof), other than as required to mitigate damage caused by a natural disaster.
*   Land reclamation (such as drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to create land).
* Land clearance and leveling (when affecting critical natural habitats and natural land contours, natural
habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most of the original plant and animal
species are still present), except for clearing of debris resulting from an emergency. (For more details
on critical natural habitats, Bank Operating Policy (OP) 4.04 can be consulted a-Mi-viv.worldbank.org
- 58-



*   Hazardous waste management and disposal as well as manufacture, transport and use of pesticides and
other hazardous and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of solvents, degreasing materials, paints,
fuels, and the like used during construction).
*   River training (such as realignment, contraction or deepening of an existing river channel, or
excavation of a new river channel).
*   Activities involving industrial plants (large-scale) and industrial estates.
*   New road construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads ("major" means changing the road
category, such as from seasonal to all-weather or secondary to primary; adding new lanes; or changing
road surface).
*   New irrigation, drainage and flood control works.
*   (a) Activities which, when being carried out, will affect, or involve the use of, water of rivers or of
other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are bordered by countries other than
Mexico, in such a manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to
or bordering said countries; and (b) activities involving the installation or construction of facilities
which, when operated after their construction or installation, will affect, or involve the use of, water of
rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are bordered by countries
other than Mexico, in such a manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water
flowing to or bordering said countries (unless such bordering countries have formally expressed in
writing to the Bank and to the Guarantor their no-objection to the activities referred to in (a) or (b)
herein).
*   Activities relating to forestry production.
*   Development of new, or expansion of existing, ports and harbors.
=   Aquaculture and mariculture activities.
*   River basin development activities.
* Development of new, or expansion of existing, thermal power and hydropower facilities.
Positive list
31.    Subprojects for the following activities will be eligible for financing under the project:
*   Repair or reconstruction of streets, roads, bridges, ports or harbors damaged by the natural disaster in
question.
*   Re-establishment of telecommunications infrastructure damaged by the natural disaster in question.
*   Re-establishment of urban or rural solid waste, water supply and sanitation (including urban drainage)
infrastructure damaged by the natural disaster in question.
- 59 -



* Repair, re-equipment, reconstruction or construction of homes, schools, clinics, hospitals or other
community structures following a natural disaster.
*   Repair of works of cultural significance damaged by the natural disaster.
* Removal and disposal of debris resulting from the natural disaster in question (but only if such removal
and disposal is not an end in itself but constitutes an integral part of an infrastructure repair.
reconstruction or re-establishment activity included in the project).
* Restoration of the productive assets, damaged by the natural disaster, of uninsured low-income
producers.
*   Replacement, with similar species, of vegetation destroyed by the natural disaster.
*   Restoration and mitigation activities in response to damage caused by a natural disaster to federal,
state, or municipal natural protected areas or their buffer zones.
* Policy and institutional development activities related to reduction of risks arising from natural forces
and institutional capacity development.
Environmental review procedures
32.    Because of the need for rapid response following a natural disaster, FONDEN-financed
subprojects initiated within a period extending from 15 days prior to and 180 days following(see para. 
above) the declaration of an emergency by SEGOB are exempt from the requirements of the Bank's OP
4.01 regarding (a) ex-ante environmental screening and Bank prior review, and (b)ex-ante public
consultation. They are subject to the normal environmental review and public consultation procedures
prescribed by the competent authorities (at federal, state or local levels) under Mexican law.
33.    The exemption from Bank prior review cited in paragraph 32 does not apply to subprojects that
take place in protected areas which lack official management plans, or where major works, major re-siting,
or significant capacity expansion is contemplated (paragraph 36).
34.   All prevention studies and capacity building will be Bank environmental assessment category C
activities. They are not subject to any special environmental review or reporting requirements.
35.    Evidence for the adequate application of these procedures will be required by the Bank through
selected prior review (paragraph 36) andex-post monitoring and supervision (paragraphs 40-44).
Prior review requirements
36.   All subprojects meeting the following criteria will be subject to prior review by the Bank:
*  Works subprojects costing more than US$3.0 million (US$5.0 million in the case of SCT and CNA,
which have dedicated environmental units).
*  Activities to mitigate natural disaster damage in a protected area (and buffer zones) included in the
federal, state or municipal system of protected areas for which an official management plan has not
- 60 -



been issued, unless the activity is specifically exempted from permitting requirements under federal
environmental regulations.
* Costing more than US$2.0 million, and involving reestablishment or reconstruction of infrastructure at
a site different from the site originally occupied by the infrastructure before it was damaged by the
natural disaster in question.
*   Costing more than US$ 1.0 million, and involving repair, reestablishment or reconstruction of
infrastructure in such a way that the resulting infrastructure will have a production output capacity
greater than 10 percent (such as in the case of a water treatment plant, using a measurement of treated
water volume per unit of time), and/or a service capacity greater than 10) percent (such as in the case of
a school or clinic, using as measurement the number of classrooms or beds) than the original
infrastructure.
Reporting
37.   On a monthly basis BANOBRAS will inform SEMARNAP and competent state environmental
authorities of all FONDEN-financed activities supported by the loan for which contracts have been
awarded.
38.   SEMARNAP will disclose through its electronic media the environmental information for
FONDEN-financed activities drawn from the "under 20 day after work initiation" reports and such other
relevant environmental reports filed by executing agencies in compliance with environmental regulations.
39.    SEMARNAP will produce and give the Bank through BANOBRAS an annual report while the
project is under implementation, showing as a minimum on a state and national basis: (a) number of
reconstruction subprojects that were reported under Article 8 of the regulations; with sectoral breakdown,
(b) number of subprojects for which aninforme preventivo was prepared or aMAA was carried out, with a
breakdown by sector and by the type of study (nforme preventivo, specific or regionalA4A); (c)
percentage rejected or withdrawn on environmental grounds with sectoral breakdown; (d) results of
PROFEPA's supervision and control activities, including the number by sector of subprojects visited, and
the degree of compliance (fines, closures, etc.) under existing environmental regulations and standards,
including Article 8 of the Reglamento; (e) results from public disclosure, including number and sectoral
breakdown, those with public comments, those subject to public hearings, resulting additional
environmental measures, etc. The report will also include information on positive environmental impacts of
the project, including use of improved construction and other risk avoidance practices, better land use,
reforestation and revegetation and similar measures following a disaster to reduce vulnerability to natural
events. Finally, the report will evaluate the extent to which emergencies in Mexico are precipitated or
exacerbated by inappropriate environmental practices and propose remediation measures to be undertaken.
Monitoring and supervision'
40.   As a continuation to pre-Board consultations with interested and affected parties, a workshop will
review this EMP with executing agencies and other stakeholders. These will include representatives from
the executing agencies, the various statefideicomrisos, and local NGOs. This EMP will also be placed in
Spanish on the Bank's Mexico Website.
41.   Two routine supervision missions will be planned each year, in the spring and fall. Each mission
will focus on (a) FONDEN performance, (b) INE and PROFEPA performance in applying the
-61 -



environmental assessment procedures, (c) executing agencies' performance in addressing environmental
issues in design and implementation of subprojects, (d) progress with prevention and capacity building
activities; (e) procurement and financial management issues; and (f) environmental and social impacts of
subprojects, both individually and cumulatively, and the adequacy of safeguard procedures agreed for the
project. Mission members will be drawn from Mexican or Washington-based Bank staff or consultants
with appropriate skills. Since the Mexico field office has procurement and financial management
specialists on its staff, these issues will be dealt with on an ongoing basis, leaving only special issues to be
addressed during supervision missions. Specialists will visitselected sites of subprojects to assess the
environmental and social impacts of subprojects and the adequacy of safeguard procedures agreed for the
project. They will also evaluate the extent to which the emergency was precipitated or exacerbated by
inappropriate environmental practices and propose remediation measures to be included in the project.
42.    Climatological disasters normally occur seasonally, with floods and hurricanes occurring during
July-December. and droughts and forest fires occurring during January-June. Therefore, the skill mix of
environmental field staff will vary depending on the season. The fall supervision mission will focus on
response to fires and droughts, and general institutional performance in applying this EMP under the
project. The spring mission will focus on response to floods and hurricanes, and budgetary issues for the
forthcoming Mexican fiscal year. Effects of episodic geological events (major earthquake or volcanic
eruption) will be reviewed in the field as needed.
43.    The midterm review will consider especially (a) any changes which should be introduced into the
project's EMP or resettlement framework to better mitigate emergencies arising from inappropriate
environmental practices and apply the Bank's safeguard policies during project execution, (b) ways to
modify the EMP's prior review triggers to reflect the magnitude of the anticipated environmental and social
impacts from the proposed interventions, rather than to reflect size alone; and (c) the adequacy of the
eligibility period used to define expenditures to be in included under the project (paragraph 1).
44.   The implementation completion report will, among other aspects, evaluate the effectiveness of
executing agencies in addressing environmental and social issues, and draw lessons for improvements in
design and implementation of similar projects. It will also include an analysis of the adequacy of the
instruments used to apply Bank safeguard policies during project execution.
Capacity development
45.    While SEMARNAP and its agencies have adequate staff and capacity, continuing efforts will be
needed to build the environmental assessment review and enforcement capacity of the state offices of INE
and PROFEPA, to ensure they can carry out their new responsibilities. SEMARNAP's senior management
has named natural disaster prevention and mitigation a high priority for the Ministry, and has committed to
provide up to US$1.5 million per year of additional resources to meet this objective and ensure that
Bank-financed subprojects are implemented in compliance with Mexican environmental law and its
regulations. It will obtain these resources either by reallocating SEMARNAP resources or from SHCP as
part of its budgets for 2001 and subsequent years. Moreover, SEMARNAP has expressed interest in
benefiting from the capacity building component of the project. It has already requested assistance to
develop risk maps showing areas of forest fire risk. It has also indicated a need for additional computer
equipment for use by its environmental assessment staff in state offices, and field equipment for use by its
forestry and fisheries inspectorates. It is expected that SEMARNAP will define other needs to deal with
the special environmental issues associated with disaster management, especially with risk mapping.
Mapping initiatives will be facilitated by ongoing actions to conform SEDESOL's land use zoning program
with SEMARNAP's ecological zoning program, thereby providing a better basis for environmental
- 62 -



assessment and siting decisions for structures.
46.    The possibility of developing a special guide outlining procedures for handling environmental and
social issues arising from natural disasters and defining works to be subject to hazard and impact
assessment and related procedures is under consideration. This guide will also specify procedures to be
followed for "chance find" cultural property. Training courses associated with this guide will include the
agencies that participate at the technical committees of the variou§fideicomisos that manage FONDEN
resources in all states of the country.
- 63 -



APPENDIX I
Table 1: Environmental screening: Objectives and actions
p Design phase review                           Implementation phase monitoring
Objective:                                      Objective:
Ensure that the project will not have negative  Ensure that the conditions of environmental
environmental impacts                           permit are met by the executing agency
What will be done?                              What will be done?
- Review environmental impacts submissions      - Monitor implementation of permit conditions,
- Identify mitigation measures, if any, to be   including mitigation measures, during
undertaken during construction                  subproject execution
- Issue environmental permit with or without
conditions, or reject submission
Who is responsible?
INE staff in state and central offices           Who is responsible?
PROFEPA
- 64 -



APPENDIX 2
Table 1. Public complaints processed by PROFEPA during 1999.-
Affected resource                       Total complaints               Percent
Forest                                     1559                           29
Air                                         948                           17
Flora                                       758                           14
Fauna                                       717                           13
Water                                       332                            6
Fishing                                     169                            3
Maritime-terrestrial federal Zone           128                            2
Ecological ordering                          90                            2
Enviromnental Impact                         87                            2
TOTAL                                      5,425                         100
Source: PROFEPA. wNvw.profena.gob.mx/dentncia4.htm
Table 2. PROFEPA's activities for supervision and enforcement of environmental regulations
1995      1996       1997      1998     1999     2000
Environmental impact
Impact verification                389        538       367      687     1.061      628
Projects lacking authorization     180        293       103       18       279       84
Projects with authorization, but   198        250        39      164       201      112
out of standards
Closure due to irregularities       23         21        47       45        32       33
Contingencies
On natural resources                38         50        46       38        55       27
-65-



Anthropogenic                       17        23         23       14       15        6
Natural                             15        21         10       18       24       15
Undetermined origin                  6         6          9        6       16        6
Public Complaints
Received                         5,206      6,429     5,565    5,173    5,420    3,234
Attended                         3,641      3,203     4,449    3,892    3,280    2,168
In process                       1,565      3,226     1,116    1,281    2,140    1,066
1. Estimate to August 31
Source: PROFEPA, Presidential Report, September 2000
- 66 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
MEXICO: NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Technical Criteria for Selecting Prevention Studies and Capacity-Building Activities
Prevention studies
Prevention studies should contribute to risk identification, risk avoidance or vulnerability reduction for
natural hazard risks addressed by FONDEN.
Risk identification
Risk identification involves:
*   Hazard assessment or hazard mapping to estimate the probability that a natural event of an intensity
capable of damaging structures, infrastructure, or productive activities occurs in a given area
*   Vulnerability assessment (through technical audits) to estimate the probability of damage when a
natural event of a given intensity occurs
*   Loss estimation.
Risk reduction
Risk reduction measures aim to reduce the likelihood of physical damage by (a) discouraging or preventing
settlements, infrastructure, and economic activities in areas where natural events of high intensity are
known to occur, (b) requiring structures and infrastructure to be built to standards to withstand natural
forces of particular intensities, and (c) developing improved cultivation or husbandry techniques to reduce
vulnerability. Specifically, they may include:
*   Design of early waming systems
*   Land-use management plans and regulations, and related enforcement mechanisms
*   Appropriate building standards, and the institutional mechanisms to apply them
*   Incentive schemes to change individual and institutional behaviors to implement loss reduction
measures
*   Public education campaigns to inform people of risks, and measures they can take to reduce them
*   Sector policies and regulations goveming design, construction, and maintenance of public
infrastructure to reduce vulnerability
*   Better design or siting standards in- new or retrofitted structures
* Promotion of improved natural resources management practices to reduce likelihood of erosion and
landslides during a natural event
Capacity-building activities
Capacity-building activities may consist of diagnostic studies, technical assistance programs, and training
aimed at strengthening the capacity of implementing agencies to respond to natural disasters, manage
social, cultural, or environmental issues arising from natural disasters, and use insurance or other risk
transfer instruments. These may cover areas such as the following:
- 67 -



*   Requirements of the Mexican laws on management of environment and treatment of cultural property,
and their regulations
*  Development of guidelines for environmental screening
*  Best environmental or social practices in design and implementation of projects
*  Hazard and vulnerability assessment
*   Priority setting
*   Design and programming of prevention investments
*  Appropriate prevention technical standards
*   Monitoring and evaluation
*  Development of insurance or other risk transfer programs
- 68 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29701
t: - -. <_ _ _ p \ U N I E                                                                           NA   T E D O     T A       E       F   AC A
30A                             Q         !(00 ,,             >    -~ i' 4-                                                                      r-    --                                                         30->.>
AAJIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  7 ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~      I
CA ounORA\>.cosdnmnio^dnohra3mhnhw '~  Ql '                                                                                                                                   . j: r
MEXICO
DAJA                                                                                                                        'REGIONAL BREAKDOWN
on  mR                       z                                                                                                              REGION ROJNDARIES
NATIOA CAPI0At
STATE ROUNOABIES
jTERNATIONAL oOUNE MARIES
-ZAtATofsuehb4C"a0                                                       0      2       0     400 =0(1    OMR  H   ND    A
_ C~  20 ,                                                      4        '            X  k      r              5    '   t i                                                        s              90   r /
/                                BELIZ~~~.2(
9        I-                                                                    I!~~~~~~~o          fmex  ' 
rho ,oop ', pooSo,dhy ho MopD.ogo I/Ol of Tf,oWo,ld Poo
P A   C I F I C    1 0   C  E A90N
SEPELEIZ99



