                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 32168

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (FSLT-70380)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$404.5 MILLION

             TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                                        GUARANTEED BY

                                THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                             FOR A

                        NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                           June 23, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                      Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                          ms$ 10.98 = US$ 1

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1     December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan
BANOBRAS Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (Nacional Bank of Public Works and
         Services)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEPEP    Centro de Estudios de Planeación y Evaluación de Proyectos (Project Planning and Evaluation
         Training Center)
CENAPRED Centro Nacional de Prevención de Desastres (Nacional Center for Disaster Prevention)
CFE      Comisión Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission)
CNA      Comisión Nacional del Agua (National Water Commission)
FME      Fideicomiso Mixto Estatal (Mixed State Trust)
FONDEN   Fondo para Desastres Naturales (Fund for Natural Disasters)
INE      Instituto Nacional de Ecología (National Ecology Institute)
INI      Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National Indigenous Institute)
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PROFEPA  Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente (Federal Attorney General for Environmental
         Protection)
SAGARPA  Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería, Desarrollo Alimenticio y Pesca (Ministry of Agriculture,
         Livestock, Dietary Development and Fishing)
SCT      Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Ministry of Communication and Transportation)
SFP      Secretaría de la Función Pública (Controller of the Public Function)
SEDESOL  Secretaría de Desarrollo Social (Ministry for Social Development)
SEGOB    Secretaría de Gobernación (Secretariat of the Interior)
SEMARNAT Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (Secretariat of Environment and Natural
         Resources)
SEP      Secretaría de Educación Pública (Secretariat of Public Education)
SHCP     Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (Finance Ministry)
SINAPROC Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil (National System of Civil Protection)
SSA      Secretaría de Salud (Ministry of Health)
UNAM     Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (National Autonomous University of Mexico)



                                    Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                                 Country Director:        Isabel Guerrero
                         Sector Manager/Director:         Makhtar Diop
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Martin Naranjo

                                           MEXICO
                            Natural Disaster Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   7
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Project Processing Schedule                                             24

Project ID: P064887                                                  Project Name: Natural Disaster Management Project
Team Leader: John Daniel Pollner                                     TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Natural Disaster Management Project                      L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70380
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (23%); Telecommunications (23%);
                            General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (23%); Power
                            (23%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/29/1999                                     Effective: 03/15/2001                10/31/2001
     Appraisal: 04/19/2000                                         MTR: 08/15/2002                  05/10/2003
      Approval: 12/07/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/BANOBRAS
                      Other Partners:      CNA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Susan Goldmark                                 John Redwood
Team Leader at ICR:             Martin Naranjo Landerer
ICR Primary Author:             Alcira Kreimer; Martin Naranjo
                                Landerer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The goal of the Project was to help reduce the human, economic and financial costs related to
natural disasters in Mexico by: (a) providing resources for rapid recovery following natural
disasters, within a framework of sound budget management; and (b) reducing the likelihood that
natural forces would result in loss of life and infrastructure damage, by supporting policy and
institutional reforms aimed at reducing vulnerability and risk and improving government capacity
for analyzing natural disaster risk.

3.2 Revised Objective:
In 2001, it became evident in discussions with the National Bank of Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.,BANOBRAS) and the Finance Ministry
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, SHCP) that there were difficulties in identifying
sub-projects that met the eligibility criteria. This included, in particular, works undertaken within
the allotted timeframe once a state of emergency was officially declared. BANOBRAS and the
Finance Ministry requested some flexibility in the interpretation of the eligibility criteria, which
required an amendment to the Loan Agreement. Four options were discussed: (a) Restructuring
the existing Project while maintaining the same development objectives, disbursement categories
and conditions; (b) Redesign of the Project with a revision of the development objectives,
disbursement categories or methodology and/or new conditions of effectiveness or disbursement,
which would require a new presentation to the Bank's Board of Directors; (c) Cancellation of the
existing Project and rapid preparation of a new project based on different premises or lending
instruments; and (d) Cancellation of the existing Project. Supported by the Finance Ministry, the
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) vetoed options (c) and (d) and emphasized the
Government's determination to continue with the Project. Option (a) was chosen so that the
Development Objectives would not be changed under a significant project re-design.


3.3 Original Components:
Component 1, Prevention Activities, financed analytical, design, and policy-related studies and
equipment to reduce economic and human losses in the event of a natural disaster. At the
beginning of each fiscal year, the Finance Ministry would agree with the Bank and the Executing
Agencies on which prevention activities the Project would finance. The technical criteria for
selecting prevention studies and capacity-building activities included studies on risk identification
(assessment and hazard mapping to estimate the probability of occurance of a natural event of an
intensity capable of damaging structures, infrastructure, or productive activities in a given area)
and vulnerability assessments (estimates of the probability of damage and loss when a natural
event of a given intensity occurs).

The prevention studies included risk reduction and measures aimed at reducing the likelihood of
physical damage by: (i) discouraging or preventing settlements, infrastructure, and economic
activities in areas where natural events of high intensity are known to occur; (ii) requiring
structures and infrastructure to be built to standards to withstand natural forces of particular
intensities; and (iii) developing improved cultivation or husbandry techniques to reduce
vulnerability. Other than studies and capacity building, the prevention component of the Project
did not include major civil works.


                                                  - 2 -

Component 2, Emergency Recovery and Emergency Reconstruction Activities, supported
emergency recovery and reconstruction activities financed by the Natural Disasters Fund (Fondo
para Desastres Naturales, FONDEN) through the State Trusts (Fideicomisos Mixtos Estatales,
FMEs) and executed by federal, state or municipal agencies. Emergency recovery activities were
defined for the purposes of the Project as those activities initiated within 15 days before and 45
days after the declaration of an emergency by the Interior Ministry (Secrataria de Gobernacion,
SEGOB). Reconstruction activities were defined for the purposes of the Project as those initiated
between 45 days and 180 days following the declaration of an emergency. Reconstruction
investments were to be selected and implemented in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines and procedures, and environmental, social, and technical criteria acceptable to the
Bank.

Component 3, Capacity Building Activities, was included to finance activities to strengthen the
capacity of the implementing agencies, through diagnostic studies, technical assistance programs,
and training, to respond to natural disasters, manage social, cultural and environmental issues
arising from natural disasters, and to use insurance and other risk transfer instruments to cover
expected costs of future disaster losses. These agencies included the Ministries of Finance,
Interior, Environment and Natural Resources, Social Development, Education, and Health.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Government requested one amendment and one restructuring/amendment. These would have
implied changes in the Project's components, particularly under the restructuring proposal.
However, as they did not go into effect there was no change, except for the cancellation of the
remaining undisbursed balance of about half of the loan amount.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was unsatisfactory, despite the application of appropriate due diligence
procedures during preparation. In hindisight, important elements of design were flawed. Extensive
consultation with the Bank's Policy Units (Operational Policy, Environment and Legal) ensured
that Mexico's environmental and safeguards framework complied with Bank requirements to be
used during the operation. Management reviews reached the Regional Vice Presidency due to the
fact that the flexibility desired under the loan necessitated its instrument classification as an
Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL). This involved careful legal and policy analysis as to what
operational policies applied under the operation.

Technical work under the Project used high level consultants to evaluate and appraise the areas
for consideration under disaster recovery and the types of inputs, materials and services needed
under the operation. Extensive consultation took place with the Government, particularly at the
level of the Finance Ministry to ensure that the Federal Government's requirements and needs
were met. However, project design did not fully take into account the absence of incentives for
the executing agencies and the assumptions about relevant risks were too optimistic, especially
those related to government fund allocation to prevention programs and the complexity of the
Project regarding procurement rules and the requiered flow of information.

The Project's main focus was on reconstruction. Prevention and insurance were minor



                                               - 3 -

components, although a PHRD preparation grant had conducted high quality technical studies of
these aspects. The focus on reconstruction emphasized that project funds were to be channeled
through FONDEN, a budget item designed to finance such costs in the aftermath of an event. In
the strategic choices mentioned in the Memorandum of the President, there is a reference to the
importance of reducing losses through prevention versus reacting to them through reconstruction,
which explains the inclusion of the prevention and risk transfer components in the Project. The
design of the Project relied on the reimbursement of funds spent on reconstruction, a feature
requested by the Government during the design phase.

The process resulted in long delays before declaring works eligible for Project financing. The
reconstruction projects financed by the Loan became eligible after a Disaster Declaration, which
occurred after the emergency period, once the evaluation of damage and needs was completed
and approved by the decentralized authorities. From a risk management perspective, a more
comprehensive approach to the different stages of disaster management and how they function
might have included more explicitly: (a) disaster identification; (b) prevention; (c) preparedness;
(d) response; (e) reconstruction; and (f) risk transfer.

Key issues that might have been better addressed included lessons such as:

    The simpler the design of a project, the better;
    An appropriate institutional framework is crucial for project success;
    Speed of response, during both appraisal and implementation, is key to success in post
    disaster emergency reconstruction;
    Disaster reconstruction is inherently multisectoral and inevitably involves coordination among
    different agencies on the ground. It is essential that a single agency or a special group is
    clearly in charge of the overall reconstruction effort; and
    Prevention and risk transfer is key to reducing losses from disasters.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives of the Project were not met satisfactorily. The Government did not allocate
enough funds for prevention programs. The Project was too complex and information-intensive.
The need to meet specific conditions on inter-agency agreements and the change of administration
delayed effectiveness for almost a year (December 2000 to October 2001). The amendment and
the restructuring proposed in 2002 and in 2003, respectively, were indicative of the severe
difficulties in disbursing the Loan. Only The National Water Commission, (Comision Nacional del
Agua, CNA) and the Communications and Transport Ministry (Secretaria de Comunicaciones y
Transportes, SCT) submitted expenses to be reimbursed by the Project. The CNA submitted
US$18,532,773 for water-related reconstruction projects in areas affected by disasters. The SCT
submitted only US$203,722 for consultant services (See Table 1 below).




                                                  - 4 -

     Table 1. Disbursement Amounts for National Water Commission (CNA) and Communications and
                                                 Transport Ministry (SCT)

       Category                                  Category Description                       Executing Agency US Equivalent Paid

                      Emergency Reconstruction subprojects - CONSULTANT SERV/ Emergency
       2-C/ 2-B                                                                                  CNA                1,683,006.21
                      Reconstruction subprojects - WORKS
          2-C         Emergency Reconstruction subprojects - CONSULTANT SERV                     CNA                  301,587.94
                      Emergency Recovery subprojects ­ WORKS/ Emergency Recovery subprojects
       1-B/ 1-C                                                                                  CNA                1,097,648.22
                      - CONSULTANT SERV
          1-C         Emergency Recovery subprojects - CONSULTANT SERV                           CNA                  107,943.10
                      Emergency Recovery subprojects ­ WORKS/ Emergency Recovery subprojects
       1-B/ 1-C                                                                                  CNA                1,076,603.42
                      - CONSULTANT SERV
                      Emergency Recovery subprojects - CONSULTANT SERV/ Emergency
       1-C/ 2-B                                                                                  CNA                  571,110.01
                      Reconstruction ­ CONSULTANT SERV
                      Emergency Recovery subprojects - CONSULTANT SERV/ Emergency
     1-C/ 2-B/ 2-B                                                                               CNA                1,353,452.95
                      Reconstruction ­ CONSULTANT SERV
          2-B         Emergency Reconstruction ­ CONSULTANT SERV                                 CNA                7,663,080.40

                      Emergency Recovery subprojects ­ WORKS/ Emergency Recovery subprojects
   1-B/ 1-C/ 2-B/ 2-C - CONSULTANT SERV/ Emergency Reconstruction ­ CONSULTANT                   CNA                4,678,340.28
                      SERV/ Emergency Reconstruction subprojects - CONSULTANT SERV

                      Emergency Recovery subprojects ­ WORKS/ Emergency Reconstruction
       1-B/ 2-C                                                                                  SCT                  203,722.82
                      subprojects - CONSULTANT SERV
                                                       TOTAL                                                      18,736,495.35




4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs of Component 1: Short term consultant services used by SCT were deployed to
develop engineering/mitigation studies.

Outputs of Component 2: CNA utilized Project funds to pay for expenditures incurred on behalf
of reconstruction activities related to flooding and water damage to infrastructure.

Outputs of Component 3: Although the National Disaster Prevention Center (Centro Nacional
de Prevencion de Desastres, CENAPRED) prepared a preliminary program of activities to be
financed under the capacity-building component, the Finance Ministry did not allocate loan budget
resources to implement them. Responding to the Finance Ministy's interest in pursuing the work
undertaken during the preparation of a catastrophic insurance scheme, Bank staff organized a
seminar on the subject in Mexico in February 2002, prepared terms of reference on the issue of
public assets insurance and identified specialized expertise to help the Borrower proceed with the
work. However, no action occurred concerning those efforts. The cost of this component was
US$15.90 million. The amount allocated to this component was 3.9 percent of the Loan. The
limited budget and factors concerning what activities could be pursued under prevention suggest
that this was not a key issue in the Project's design and the Government did not have a strong
interest in implementing this using loan proceeds. The Mexican budget system also made it
difficult to include loan-financed funds in the annual budget cycle. Nevertheless, towards the end
of the Project, the Government did allocate counterpart funding for consultancies, which helped
develop a risk management framework and risk exposure studies under the insurance/risk transfer
component.




                                                              - 5 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The three components were not subject to economic analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not available.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The main impact came from the Bank's technical assistance provided under the capacity building
component and paid by the Government with counterpart resources. This included the
development of an insurance coverage framework for all federal agencies so as to optimize
disaster protection at an efficient cost. It also included the development of detailed Hazard
Mapping models for future loss estimation from earthquakes, and internalization of the menu of
insurance and capital market instruments that could be deployed for transfering risk and avoiding
fiscal disruptions. These are being followed up under a First Grant facility.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The key bottleneck that could not be resolved with a simple project amendment was the
complexity in coordinating multiple decentralized agencies. The necessary incentives were not
present, particularly in a post-disaster situation, and especially after the beneficiaries had received
emergency resources from the Government budget funds. The documentation was primarily
needed for the Federal Government to be reimbursed and compensated with complementary loan
funds. Because of this, the Bank and the Government agreed to a major restructuring to convert
the Project to a quick disbursing facility.

The restructuring objective was to permit the rapid deployment of critical resources in
post-disaster reconstruction through a pre-arranged contingent facility. During the eight-month
delay in obtaining agreement from the Legal Department to the reestructuring, personnel changes
among the Mexican officials responsible for the Loan led to a reconsideration of the Project. At
Loan closing, it appeared that the endeavor had lost support among the Mexican authorities.
While members of the Finance Ministry's Technical Unit managing the restructuring of the Project
continued to support it, they were eventually overidden by the new heads of the Public Debt
Department, who decided that the Project was no longer a Government priority.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Technical assistance activities (particularly the prevention and insurance/risk transfer components)
and some works needed budget approval before funds could be authorized. This was the result of
a peculiarity in Mexico's budgeting system. All sources of funding, regardless of whether they are
revenue-based or loan-sourced, must be included in the approved national budget before funds
can be utilized.

The Government did not allocate enough funds to implement prevention programs and did not
make the efforts to budget loan funds for many of the other components into the national budget
as required by Mexican law. The Project was too complex and information-intensive. Signing
took place on December 7, 2000 and it reached effectiveness only on October 31, 2001. The need
to meet specific conditions on inter-agency agreements and the change of Government led to this


                                                     - 6 -

substantial delay. The amendment and the restructuring proposed in 2002 and in 2003
respectively, were indicative of the severe difficulties in disbursing the Loan. The Water
Commission and the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications were the only two agencies
that submitted expenses to be reimbursed by the Project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The collection of disaster expense documentation on an ex-post basis from many decentralized
beneficiary entities proved cumbersome. Agencies had no incentive to provide documentation for
expenditures that were pre-paid with federal resources, even if the Federal Government would
benefit from receiving incremental reimbursed resources through loan funds. Indeed, the original
project appraisal document cited the Project's complexity and its information-intensive
requirements as a risk.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$658.35 million. The original Bank loan was
US$404.5 million, and the Government participation was estimated at US$253.85. The
Government requested a cancellation of US$200,000,999.00 million on May 27, 2002. Only
US$22,776,995.35 was used out of the Bank loan, and the balance of US$181,273,004.65 was
cancelled on October 12, 2004.

A PHRD grant of US$575,000 was provided and used to provide technical assistance during
project preparation.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the Project is rated as Unlikely. Sustainability during project preparation
depended on the Government establishing an ongoing process of identifying and implementing
annual prevention investments, providing incentives to public entities to ensure properties against
natural disaster risks, and setting up an efficient and effective system of post-disaster financing.
This was not the case.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Mexican hazard management institutions and the FONDEN facility will continue with government
funding. The innovations on prevention and risk transfer will likely be difficult to mainstream,
given the lack of regular appropriation in the national budget.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending preparation was intense and involved much review of environmental issues and
procedures and quasi-application of ERL-type processes, requiring several management reviews.
Technical and environmental assessments were detailed. However, the final project design was
less innovative with respect to hazard management practices and insurance mechanisms known at
the time. Project design did not fully consider the particularities of the Mexican disaster related
expenditures. Fiduciary and Safeguard requirements imposed significant additional costs and were
not fully compatible with Fonden's procedures.



                                                     - 7 -

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank fielded about two missions a year. There were four identification/appraisal missions,
two for appraisal/negotiation, seven supervision missions, and one for the preparation of the ICR.
The self-rating of four of the supervision missions were unsatisfactory. The only satisfactory
missions were for preparation of the Loan restructuring, to prepare contingent earthquake
triggered facility and a catastrophe bond as a market based insurance mechanism. At that time the
Government showed a strong interest in restructuring the Project to a design assessed to be viable
by the Bank, the Finance Ministry and BANOBRAS. This interest did not materialize in the final
stages of the Project, despite an earlier official written government request to proceed.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance was moderately unsatisfactory. Although the supervision teams made serious
efforts to correct the problems, the teams themselves and management should have taken decisive
action earlier. The operation was not converted to a potential contingent Loan (that is, a facility
that would allow deployment of pre-arranged funding to cover risks in the event of natural
catastrophes) as per the proposed restructuring. A strategy of pre-arranging catastrophic funding
would have been a prudent and sound approach consistent with modern risk management
practices. The long delay in obtaining agreement from the Legal Department to the restructuring
also contributed to the Government's loss of interest.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The repeated delays in declaring the Loan effectiveness due to the three extensions requested by
the Borrower were indicative of an unsatisfactory performance. The Finance Ministry appears to
have had little interest in making the Project effective. The issue of non-additionality in the
country budget was also important.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Delays in effectiveness and disbursements
were due to the fact that as the Finance Ministry retains the funds, it determines when it is
convenient for a project to be declared effective or to disburse on that project.

The delays in effectiveness resulted mostly from bureaucratic internal requirements in the Finance
Ministry and BANOBRAS. The latter had a hard time putting together the documentation
required to justify the large retroactive financing granted to the Project. On the repeated delays,
BANOBRAS pointed to difficulties in identifying sufficient sub-projects meeting the eligibility
criteria, and in particular works undertaken within the allotted timeframe once a state of
emergency was declared officially. BANOBRAS requested some flexibility in the interpretation of
eligibility criteria. In response, the project team indicated that such request, which may have
involved an amendment to the Loan Agreement, would need to be substantiated with facts and
proposed remedies, and officially sent to the Bank for review and decision. This request, which
was initially expected before the end of 2001, was finally submitted to the Bank on May 2002,
without much rationale for the proposed changes. In addition to proposing changes in the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower requested canceling US$ 200 million from the original loan amount.

Decentralization and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures created unwieldy Government



                                                   - 8 -

procedures, which did not help to move the Project and created unnecessary delays during
emergencies. Project coordination was critical, given the significant number of agencies involved.
However the Project Coordinating Committee failed to deliver on its mandate. It did not meet
regularly, and it did not communicate with the executing agencies. It did not monitor project
implementation. Some of the executing agencies were not aware of the existence of the Project
until very late in the process. A large number of decentralized agencies had never worked with a
Bank-financed project, and they felt that an effective coordination and information system was
missing.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
During the ICR mission, different agencies raised the issue of the lack of understanding about the
Project. Most executing agencies did not experience the necessary coordination and
communication about the Project from the PCC and did not fully understand what the Project was
about.

A main problem was the lack of collaboration among the different agencies, making procurement
too costly and cumbersome. It was extremely difficult to gather evidence to request disbursements
from the agencies. The major disbursements were related to the water component--and a small
disbursement for communications and transport. The disbursements documented by the National
Water Commission (CNA) only occurred in 2003, as the agency did not participate in the
negotiations for the project and did not participate in preparation meetings. CNA saw its
participation as "providing assistance" to the project, which had not disbursed up to that point.
Unlike the other agencies, CNA had a number of investments that were eligible for project
financing.

The project disbursed less than US$10 million in the two years after the loan became effective.
However, it was estimated that the expenditures reimbursed by FONDEN in sub-projects for
reconstruction after disasters reached more than US$260 million during the same period.

The Implementation Agencies may not have understood their role in implementing the project.
Some did not know about the project, or found out a few years into implementation, (e.g. CNA).
Although some agencies like CENAPRED had prepared a preliminary program of activities that
could be financed under the prevention and capacity-building components of the project, no
budget resources were allocated by the Finance Ministry. This is a major quality at entry issue-for
both the Bank and the Borrower.

Record-keeping also reflected poor quality at entry. A transparent system for keeping records
should have been established across the board, even in the decentralized entities. When there are
no payment vouchers to substantiate the authenticity of expenditures unresolved audit queries
arise, as well as opportunities for misspending, fraud, and corrupt procurement.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The lack of coordination and the low level of disbursement indicate that the Borrower's
performance was not up to standard. The poor performance of the coordinating committee and
the lack of involvement of the agencies concerned with the project are consistent with the
unsatisfactory rating. The lack of Borrower follow up on the amendment and the restructuring,
despite strong Bank team's efforts, was disappointing. Government internal disagreements over
whether to approve the restructuring contributed to failure. However, the Bank management's



                                                - 9 -

brokering role or additional persuasion during the final process could have been more proactive.

8. Lessons Learned

Responsiveness to the client. The Bank should be responsive to the client in terms of issuing
documents, particularly legal documents related to restructuring amendments requested by the
client Government. Processing should be fast, especially with a middle income country like
Mexico.

Bank-Country Dialogue. The Bank needs to make a special effort to maintain a constant
transparent dialogue with the client and understand the reasons for certain decisions.        This
includes following up carefully when client messages and reversals of action are not clearly
explained or articulated.

Project design and objective. Good project design, preparation and implementation, smooth
coordination among the participating agencies, good understanding of project goals and strong
political and local support, are essential for the successful outcome of a project. A decentralized
decision making and logistics setting can impose additional operational risks and coordination
costs for the reconstruction and recovery.

Personnel change. Changes in personnel may affect the project in a negative way. Different
individuals, changes in government management and inter-unit rivalries may reflect different
degrees of commitment to and ownership of the project, which may affect its performance. On the
Bank's side, cycling through four task managers weakened the Bank's leverage with the client.

Ongoing programs. When an Implementing Agency is already involved with investments under
ongoing government programs (with relatively liberal requirements like FONDEN) the Bank
should consider more flexible loan disbursements and procurement rules, specially under a budget
non-addionality scenario.

Looking at ourselves. In many cases, as an institution, the Bank is not fully ready to deal with a
middle-income decentralized country seeking to manage a disaster. This requires a close
evaluation of the Bank's value added versus the additional costs of Bank Fiduciary and Safeguard
Requirements.

Procurement/disbursement. More flexible procurement and disbursement rules should apply to
emergency operations. Conventional procurement and disbursement rules cannot be applied in a
country, where agencies have no incentive to submit invoices or to identify eligible investments.
Projects that finance small sub-projects should simplify financial management processes, especially
those related to the validation of disbursements and expenditures, and to the translation of these
expenditures into Bank disbursements.

Disaster risk management. Very few countries are really prepared to engage in disaster risk
management. The Bank should pay attention to this, and ramp up its efforts to train Bank staff
and Borrowers on this issue.

Speed, coordination and participation. These three issues, which are very important in recovery
and reconstruction, are also important when planning innovative contingent or emergency
operations.




                                                - 10 -

Disaster mitigation. Even though mitigation measures bring about major benefits, they have not
been incorporated into planning the sustainable development of many countries repeatedly
affected by disasters like Mexico.

Disaster risk transfer. The private insurance sector contributes significant funding for natural
disaster reconstruction in developed countries. However, in a country like Mexico it has made
fewer inroads. In developing countries, the State and the individual carry much of the cost of
natural disasters. While the Government might have made in-roads in using fiscal insurance
mechanisms, the budget non-addionality issue under the loan did not provide compatible
incentives for the implementing agencies.

Safeguards. Special attention needs to be paid to the issue of safeguards, which in the case of
many projects may detract from the main objectives of the activity.

Indicators for non-disbursing loans. The Bank should establish indicators for non-disbursing
loans early on, and address the issue immediately when it arises. When the Loan is rated as
non-disbursing for a given period its cancellation should be considered.

Training. SHCP/BANOBRAS in conjunction with the Bank should develop training on
procurement, disbursement, and risk management for the states and agencies that have not
worked with the Bank before.

Prevention. This is an important component of any risk management project. There was a
misunderstanding between the Bank, SHCP, and some of the agencies concerning prevention.
While many agencies were looking for a prevention Loan, efforts were mostly geared toward
recovery. Future initiatives should clarify this issue. It complicated matters to exclude it from a
project as the three areas of prevention, preparedness and recovery are all linked.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                                      INFORME DE CIERRE

                      PROYECTO MANEJO DE DESASTRES NATURALES
                                      PRESTAMO 7038-ME.

                                              ANEXO
                                  OPINIÓN DEL PRESTATARIO

En 1999 cuando se propuso financiar el programa de Desastres Naturales con recursos
provenientes del Banco Mundial, las expectativas del Gobierno Mexicano estaban orientadas a
generar un mecanismo auxiliar que permitiera realizar más eficientemente el fondeo de los gastos
realizados en el caso de presentarse alguna contingencia de desastre, en virtud de que
anteriormente se habían estado realizando enmiendas a programas en ejecución para hacer
elegibles gastos relacionados con las emergencias ocurridas en esos años.

El ejecutor del programa fue el Fondo de Desastres Naturales (FONDEN) dependiente de la
Subsecretaría de Egresos de la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, quien estaba encargado



                                                - 11 -

de coordinar las acciones de varias dependencias del Gobierno de México en materia de desastres.

Debido a las características propias de los gastos originados en las situaciones de desastre, uno de
los principales obstáculos con los que se enfrentó el programa fue que la adquisición de bienes y
comprobación de gastos casi en ninguno de los casos se pudo realizar de acuerdo con lo
establecido en las políticas del Banco Mundial, por lo que al momento de presentar dichos gastos
para comprobación no se pudo obtener el visto bueno del Banco, situación que se intentó
flexibilizar infructíferamente en distintas ocasiones.

Aunado a los procesos de operación del FONDEN poco compatibles con los del Banco Mundial,
otros de los factores que frenaron la ejecución del programa fueron el constante cambio de
Gerente de proyecto por parte del equipo del Banco Mundial y el cambio de Administración en el
Gobierno Federal Mexicano, y la falta de incentivos para las distintas dependencias para presentar
documentación comprobatoria elegible de desembolso. Cabe señalar, que únicamente la Comisión
Nacional del Agua presentó documentación para desembolsar los recursos del préstamo.

A finales del año 2003, se presentó una propuesta para modificar el contrato legal del crédito y
convertir el programa en un bono contingente de catástrofes, mismo que por diversas razones no
fue posible consolidar, y después de explorar algunas alternativas de mejora en el diseño del
programa, a finales del año 2004 ya muy cerca del cierre oficial del mismo, el Gobierno de
México se vio en la necesidad de solicitar su cancelación definitiva.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No quantitative measures during the project   Same                                        Same
life. Natural disasters of similar types &
intensities occur infrequently in areas with
similar population, settlement and
infrastructure characteristics thus limiiting
capabilities to generate time-series data.
Federal entities adopt new procedures to      New streamlined federal procedures provide  Response and reconstruction of affected
improve natural disaster management,          quick relief and funding liquidity. Speedy  sites beginning within 60 days after event.
incluing sectoral policies, management        assessments of needs are conducted to
procedures and institutional strengthening.   begin recovery process within 15 days of
                                              disaster.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Studies completed (for example, for works to Same                                         Hazard Mapping completed.
reduce flood damage or strengthen
bridges).Policy or institutional measures
adopted.
Number of days between the date a disaster Same                                           Allocated within 30 day period.
is declared and the date federal, state and
local funds are allocated to federal agencies
or to state FMEs.
Trend in average number of days between       Same                                        Not available.
date funds are allocated and reconstruction
is completed.
Number of units built versus number initially Same                                        Not available.
programmed.Final unit costs versus
estimated unit costs.
Trends in distribution of costs among levels  Same                                        Cost sharing arrangement with States
of government.                                                                            implemented.
Federal entities adopt new procedures to      Same                                        Not available.
improve natural disaster management.
Government adopts guidelines and              Same                                        Insurance guidelines issues.
procedures to encourage use of insurance.
Number of days between issuance of a          Same                                        Not available.
warning and evacuation completed.
Share of population removed from danger       Same                                        Not available.
versus share remaining at risk.

1 End of project




                                                                 - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million   US$ million
Prevention Activities                                          15.00
Emergency recovery and reconstruction investments             380.00           19.73             4.9
Capacity building activities                                    5.00
Total Project Costs                                           400.00           18.73             4.6
Front-end Fee                                                   4.05             4.05           100
Total Financing Required                                      404.05           22.78             5.6

Total Baseline Cost                                          1208.10           65.29
                          Total Project Costs                1208.10           65.29
                   Total Financing Required                  1208.10           65.29


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB               NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                           100.00             50.20         0.00         150.00      300.20
                                  (50.00)            (25.00)      (0.00)         (75.00)    (150.00)
2. Goods                           150.10             27.00         0.00         100.00      277.10
                                  (93.00)            (17.00)      (0.00)         (63.00)    (173.00)
3. Services                         0.00               0.00         0.00          77.00      77.00
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)         (77.00)     (77.00)
4. Front-end Fee                    0.00               0.00         0.00          4.05        4.05
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (4.05)     (4.05)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00               0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00               0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                           250.10             77.20         0.00         331.05      658.35
                                  (143.00)           (42.00)      (0.00)        (219.05)    (404.05)
Bank Loan Totals in parenthesis are as stated in the PAD

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB               NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                            0.00              27.79        0.00           0.00      27.79
                                   (0.00)            (16.32)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (16.32)
2. Goods                            0.00              0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00              2.41         0.00           0.00       2.41
                                   (0.00)             (2.41)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (2.41)
4. Front-end Fee                    0.00              0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00

                                                   - 14 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00              30.20              0.00             0.00             30.20
                                          (0.00)            (18.73)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (18.73)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Prevention Activities         15.00        15.00                                                         0.0      0.0
Emergency Recovery and        380.00       633.30                   18.73         30.20                  4.9      4.8
Reconstruction
Investments
Capacity Building              5.00         5.00                                                         0.0      0.0
Activities




                                                          - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

     Component 1. Prevention activities, including studies and equipment that would have
     been financed by the project, relied on cost benefit methodologies to determine the level of
     investment to undertake in particular mitigation works. This was based on the actuarial
     analysis of the frequency and severity of expected hazard events such as earthquakes,
     hurricanes, floods and others.       Based on such probabilities and the cost damages
     associated with their materializing, an expected annual cost of damage would be estimated
     and compared with the present value of the cost of a particular mitigation work in the
     affected area. If the cost of the mitigation work was lower than the expected damage
     value the investment had a positive rate of return.        However, if it was higher, the
     investment might still be worthwhile if the mitigation itself lowered the expected annual
     value of damages.        In this latter case, an ex ante estimation of the reduction of
     vulnerability (and value of damage) was necessary before considering the cost
     effectiveness of mitigation investments.

     Component 2. For Emergency recovery and reconstruction investments, the main issue
     here was speed of recovery to prevent cascading negative economic effects of overly slow
     disaster recoveries. For that reason, the contingent element in the loan was meant to
     disburse quickly to provide immediate liquidity to begin reconstruction. However, the
     contracting procedures involving many decentralized entities did not allow the quick
     liquidity function to work. In any case, it was estimated that if funds for reconstruction
     were made available within 30 days of the event having occurred, this would have
     measurable impacts in reducing the after-shock economic effects by starting reconstruction
     activitities very early on.

     Component 3.         For Capacity Building activities, the main cost benefit methodology
     pertained to the use of insurance/risk transfer as a complement to Government funding
     post disaster.    Using the actuarial estimation of event probability and severity, and
     associating these with the damage ratios on property and infrastructure (based on their
     construction quality and topographic/geographic exposure), this would generate risk
     models to price different insurance instruments (including catastrophe bonds) for potential
     use by FONDEN, the natural diaster fund of the Mexican Government. The benefit of
     insurance funds was that, once received, they did not imply a debt repayment and were
     essentially free funds. Their annual premium cost could also be compared with credit
     facilities and their repayment profile if used, to determine which financial instrument was
     more effective for the Government to use to finance natural diaster losses as a complement
     to government funding.

     The project was designed to support programs to reduce damage from natural events.
     With losses due to natural disasters totaling about 11 billion dollars over the past twenty
     years, many of which could have been avoided by adequate prevention, the benefits of the
     project were clear.




                                              - 16 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/07/1999                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             FINANCE SECTOR
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); AND SENIOR
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              09/09/1999                1    FINANCE SECTOR
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/29/1999                3    WATER RESOUCE
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AND
                                             FINANCE SECTOR
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              01/10/2000                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1) AND
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/29/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AND
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/21/2000                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SENIOR PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SENIOR FINANCE OFFICER
                                             (1); CHIEF COUNSEL (1);
                                             SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AND
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTAN (1)




                                              - 17 -

 Supervision
               05/30/2001              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           SR. SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                                           (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1); AND
                                           FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               07/31/2002              1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)               U    U
               05/10/2003              2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  U    U
                                           ECONOMIST (1)
               08/07/2003              2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  U    U
                                           FINANCE EXPERT (1)
               11/18/2003              3   TASK MANAGER / FINANCE             S    S
                                           (1); SR. URBAN SPEC. (1);
                                           DISASTER SPECIALIST (1)
               05/27/2004              1   LEAD FIN. SECTOR SPEC. (1)         S    S
               08/25/2004              1   LEAD FIN. SECTOR SPEC. (1)         U    U

 ICR
               04/04/2005             5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             U    U
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); AND
                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            34.5                     109,909.56
  Appraisal/Negotiation                47.29                     157,822.59
  Supervision                          75.40                     127,578.53
  ICR                                   8.23                      36,173.36
  Total                                165.2                     431,484.04




                                            - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

BANOBRAS. May 2002. Power point presentation. "Las Funciones del Fiduciario en el
Fideicomiso ­ FONDEN y en los Fideicomisos FONDEN Estatales". México, D.F.

Becerril Vega, Victor Hugo. May 2002. "Adquisición de Equipo Especializado con cargo al
FONDEN y su Registro ­ La Simplificación de las Reglas de Operación del FONDEN".
Secretaría de Gobernación (SEGOB). México, D.F

EQE. October 2001.      Fortalecimiento de la Acción de la Prevención de Desastres en el
Contexto del Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil. México, D.F.

Euroestudios, S.A. January 2000. Design of National Disaster Systems, Project Monitoring and
National Disaster Mitigation Policy and Strategy. Madrid, Spain.

FONDEN. May 2002. Power point presentation. "Taller sobre reglas de operación 2002".
México, D.F.

Gurenko, Eugene and Lester, Rodney. August 2001. Managing Catastrophe Risk Exposures in
SouthAsia: The Role of the World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Information for Investment Decisions (IID). June 2000. "Study on Incorporating Risk Analysis
into Cost-Benefit Analysis for Analyzing Public Investment for the Mexico Disaster Management
Project". Washington, D.C.

SECODAM. May 2002. Power point presentation. "Control y Evaluación de los Recursos
FONDEN". México, D.F.

SEDESOL.      Junio 2001.    Manual para la Instrumentación de Programas Emergentes de
Vivienda. México, D.F.

SUME. December 2000. Estudio para el Desarrollo de una Metodología para el Diagnóstico
de Riesgo a Escala Municipal. México, D.F.

The World Bank. July 7 ­ 16, 1999. Project Mission Report and Aide-Memoire for Mexico ­
Natural Disaster Management Project, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. November 29 to December 3, 1999. Project Mission Report and
Aide-Memoire for Mexico ­ Natural Disaster Management Project, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. February 28 to March 10, 2000. Project Mission Report and Aide-Memoire
for Mexico ­ Natural Disaster Management Project, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. July 29 ­ 30, 2002. Project Mission Report and Aide-Memoire for Mexico ­




                                              - 21 -

Natural Disaster Management Project, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. October 1998. Market Incentives for Mitigation Investment: Mexico Case
Study, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank and BANOBRAS. December 15, 2000. Loan Agreement for the Loan
7038-ME ­ Mexico ­ Natural Disaster Management Project. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank and BANOBRAS. December 15, 2000. Guarantee Agreement for the Loan
7038-ME ­ Mexico ­ Natural Disaster Management Project. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank and BANOBRAS. July 22, 2002. Amendment to the Loan Agreement for the
Loan 7038-ME ­ Mexico ­ Natural Disaster Management Project. Washington, D.C.




                                          - 22 -

- 23 -

