Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7038-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Natural Disaster Management Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 15, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7038-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2000, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, 
S.N.C. (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the 
Page  2
financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of four hundred 
four million fifty thousand Dollars ($404,050,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and 
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other 
charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual 
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The Guarantor shall 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under such contractual arrangements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide or cause to be provided, in a timely manner as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, without limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, shall:  (a) through SHCP and 
SEGOB, cause Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project to be carried out by the Federal Executing 
Agencies or the Participating States (through their State Executing Agencies), with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, technical, financial and 
administrative standards and practices; and (b) carry out Part B of the Project through the Federal 
Executing Agencies, also with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
environmental, technical, financial and administrative standards and practices.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank, not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Bank, or cause the Bank to be afforded, a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Guarantor on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall cause Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project to be carried 
out in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the FONDEN 
Rules, which FONDEN Rules may be amended by the Guarantor from time to time but in any 
case must be satisfactory to the Bank.  In case of any conflict between the terms of the FONDEN 
Rules and those of this Agreement and of the Loan Agreement, the terms of this Agreement and 
of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
(b)
The Guarantor shall cause Part B of the Project to be carried out in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement, the Loan Agreement and an operational manual, to be issued 
by SHCP, which manual may be amended by the Guarantor from time to time with the approval 
of the Bank.  In case of any conflict between the terms of said manual and those of this 
Agreement and of the Loan Agreement, the terms of this Agreement and of the Loan Agreement 
shall prevail.
(c)
The Guarantor shall, throughout the course of Project implementation, maintain 
a
committee, with representatives from SHCP, SEGOB and the Borrower (of whom the SHCP 
representative shall act as coordinator), which committee shall facilitate Project implementation 
Page  4
coordination among the Borrower, the Federal Executing Agencies, the Participating States and 
the State Executing Agencies.
(d)
With respect to Part B.1 of the Project, activities to be carried out thereunder 
with Loan proceeds during any given calendar year during Project implementation shall only be 
those so agreed between the Bank and the Guarantor at the beginning of said year, which 
activities shall comply with technical criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and be carried 
out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)
With respect to Part B.2 of the Project, activities to be carried out thereunder 
with Loan proceeds during any given calendar year during Project implementation shall only be 
those so agreed between the Bank and the Guarantor at the beginning of said year, which 
activities shall comply with technical criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and be carried 
out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(f)
The Guarantor shall maintain, throughout the course of Project implementation, 
appropriate resources and mechanisms in place as required to carry out its obligations set forth in 
Section 3.08 (a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) Subject to Section 3.06 of this Agreement, an investment activity shall 
qualify as an Emergency Recovery Subproject only if:
(i)
it is initiated in response to a natural disaster for which SEGOB has 
issued, and not rescinded, a 
Declaratoria de Desastre Natural
 (Natural 
Disaster Declaration) pursuant to paragraph 44 of the FONDEN Rules 
(or analogous paragraph in any amended version of the FONDEN 
Rules);
(ii)
it has been approved for financing (channeled through the FONDEN 
Trust or through a State Trust) by an SHCP resolution pursuant to 
paragraph 53 of the FONDEN Rules (or analogous paragraph in any 
amended version of the FONDEN Rules);
(iii)
contracts for the execution thereof have been awarded and signed (and 
on-site work under such contracts has commenced) within a period 
running from (A) no earlier than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the 
issuance of the Natural Disaster Declaration referred to in subparagraph 
(i) of this paragraph to (B) no later than forty-five (45) days after the 
issuance of said Natural Disaster Declaration (with the proviso that any 
contracts awarded after said forty-five (45) day period for execution of 
the activity may qualify as part of an Emergency Reconstruction 
Subproject if the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section 
are met with respect to the activity);
(iv)
all requirements under Guarantor and relevant State environmental laws 
and cultural property protection laws for authorization and 
implementation of the activity have been complied with;
(v)
it aims to repair or reconstruct streets, roads, bridges, ports or harbors 
damaged by the natural disaster in question; re-establish 
Page  5
telecommunications infrastructure damaged by the natural disaster in 
question; re-establish urban or rural solid waste, water supply and 
sanitation (including urban drainage) infrastructure damaged by the 
natural disaster in question; repair, re-equip, construct or reconstruct 
homes, schools, clinics, hospitals or works of cultural significance or 
other communal structures damaged by the natural disaster in question; 
remove and dispose of debris resulting from the natural disaster in 
question (but only if such removal and disposal is not an end in itself but 
constitutes an integral part of an infrastructure repair, reconstruction or 
re-establishment activity itemized herein); restore the productive assets, 
damaged by the natural disaster in question, of uninsured low-income 
producers; replace, with similar species, vegetation destroyed by the 
natural disaster in question; or repair or mitigate damage caused by a 
natural disaster to a federal, State, or municipal natural protected area or 
buffer zone thereof (all the above in such a way as to take into account 
the reasons for the damage suffered in the disaster and to ensure that the 
infrastructure re-established through the Subproject is environmentally 
sound in a way that reduces its vulnerability to possible future disasters); 
and
(vi)
the Bank has reviewed and approved the activity prior to the activity’s 
initiation if the activity:  (A) is estimated to cost in excess of $3 million 
equivalent ($5 million equivalent in the case of activities under 
Subprojects carried out by SCT or CNA); (B) would affect or take place 
in a Guarantor or State or municipal natural protected area or buffer 
zone thereof that has no official management plan in place (unless such 
activity is exempt from Guarantor environmental assessment 
requirements pursuant to Article 5 (S) of the Guarantor’s regulations, 
published on May 30, 2000, to the Ecology Law); (C) is estimated to 
cost in excess of $2 million equivalent and involves re-establishment or 
reconstruction of infrastructure at a site different from the site originally 
occupied by the infrastructure before it was damaged by the natural 
disaster in question; or (D) is estimated to cost in excess of $1 million 
equivalent and involves repair, re-establishment or reconstruction of 
infrastructure in such a way that the resulting infrastructure would have 
greater production output capacity (by ten percent or more; such as in 
the case of a water treatment plant, using a measurement of treated water 
volume per unit of time) and/or greater service capacity (by ten percent 
or more; such as in the case of a school or clinic, using a measurement of 
classrooms or beds) than the original pre-damage infrastructure.
(b)
Subject to Section 3.06 of this Agreement, an investment activity shall qualify as 
an Emergency Reconstruction Subproject only if:
(i)
the requirements set forth in subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of 
paragraph (a) of this Section have been met with respect to the activity; 
and
(ii)
contracts for the execution thereof have been awarded and signed (and 
on-site work under such contracts has commenced) after forty-five (45) 
Page  6
calendar days (but no more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days) 
have passed since the issuance of the Natural Disaster Declaration 
referred to in subparagraph (i) of paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c)
On an exceptional basis, the 45 calendar day limit set forth in paragraph (a) (iii) 
of this Section, as well as the 180 calendar day limit set forth in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, 
may, before the relevant limit expires, be extended in writing by the Bank for a particular 
Subproject if the nature of the disaster is such as to justify, in the Bank’s opinion, delays in the 
commencement of Subproject on-site work (such as when disaster conditions, for example 
non-receding flood waters, persist on-site long after the disaster is declared pursuant to paragraph 
(a) (i) of this Section).
Section 3.06. (a) No Subproject or component thereof may involve any of the activities 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
For purposes of this Agreement and the Loan Agreement, none of the following 
activities shall be deemed to constitute a component of a Subproject:  (i) mere consumption or 
transfer of ownership; (ii) financing of debts and liabilities; (iii) purchase or rental of land; (iv) 
provision of welfare or other social assistance; (v) financing of any operating expenses; (vi) 
purchase of equipment for disaster preparedness; (vii) containment or extinguishment of existing 
fires; (viii) cash compensation pursuant to paragraphs 31 and 32 of the FONDEN Rules provided 
to parties affected by natural disasters (or analogous paragraphs in any amended version of the 
FONDEN Rules); and (ix) assistance pursuant to paragraphs 15 (I and II) and 60 of the FONDEN 
Rules (or analogous paragraphs in any amended version of the FONDEN Rules) provided to 
parties affected by natural disasters.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall ensure that, with regard to each Subproject:
(a)
INE carries out its obligations pursuant to the Ecology Law and PROFEPA 
enforces compliance with the Ecology Law;
(b)
any environmental mitigation actions that may be required as a condition for 
Bank approval of such Subproject under Section 3.05 (a) (vi) of this Agreement (or pursuant to 
the cross-reference to said Section in Section 3.05 (b) (i) of this Agreement) are carried out;
(c)
the FONDEN Rules are complied with;
(d)
any resettlement of population or relocation of businesses or encumbrance of 
livelihood resulting or required because of such Subproject’s implementation be treated in 
compliance with the Resettlement Framework (or the FONDEN Rules when application of the 
Resettlement Framework is not mandated by the Resettlement Framework’s terms); and
(e)
if such Subproject affects indigenous people, SEDESOL ensures that such 
people be allowed to have informed participation with regard to the design and implementation 
of the Subproject, participate systematically in the monitoring and evaluation thereof and in 
general derive benefits from the Subproject.
Section 3.08. (a) The Guarantor shall in each of the Federal Executing Agencies 
establish and maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
Page  7
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of Part B of 
the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently 
applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested (including, as 
part of the information to be provided in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the Guarantor’s internal controls); and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures under Part B of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
or payment out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure or Project Management Reports submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(d)
The Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may be 
required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower’s obligations under Sections 3.04 and 
4.01 of the Loan Agreement (including information pertaining to all expenditures for Part B of 
the Project with respect to which withdrawals were made from the Special Account).
Page  8
(e)
As part of the audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, the Guarantor 
shall have compliance with the terms of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement audited with 
respect to Part B of the Project, and have the results of such audit presented to the Bank as part 
of the audit reports referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) (B) of this Section.
Section 3.09. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without limitation 
upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor, through the PCC, 
shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained procedures adequate to enable monitoring 
and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, of the carrying out of the Project and of the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank, two months after the end of each semester (beginning for the 
semester commencing on the Effective Date), progress reports on Project implementation, in a 
format satisfactory to the Bank, which reports shall be based on the indicators referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)
participate with the Bank, during each month of March and September during 
Project implementation (beginning no later than March 2001), in a semi-annual review of Project 
implementation based on the semestral reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and on 
the reports referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement; and
(d)
participate with the Bank, during the semi-annual review to be held in September 
2002, in a midterm review of Project implementation, based on the semestral reports referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and on the reports referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement, 
which midterm review shall focus, 
inter alia
,
on
assessing compliance with environmental and 
social safeguards under the Project and on identifying any changes in the Project (such as with 
regard to the Resettlement Framework, the prior review standards set forth in Section 3.05 (a) 
(vi) of this Agreement – including their possible modification to focus exclusively on 
environmental and social impacts regardless of estimated Subproject cost – and the 180-day limit 
set forth in Section 3.05 (b) (ii) of this Agreement) that need be considered by the Bank and the 
Guarantor in light of Project implementation experience up to the time of said midterm review.
Section 3.10. Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Guarantor shall:  (a) 
through INE, furnish to the Bank, two months after the end of each twelve-month period 
(beginning for the twelve-month period commencing on the Effective Date), reports, in a format 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the environmental aspects of the Project, which reports shall, for the 
twelve-month period in question:
(i)
list all the Subprojects (broken down by sector) for which filings were 
received by INE pursuant to Article 8 of the Guarantor’s regulations, 
published on May 30, 2000, to the Ecology Law;
(ii)
list all the Subprojects (broken down by sector and by type of impact 
assessment) for which INE received environmental impact assessments 
(either 
informes preventivos
 or 
manifestaciones de impacto ambiental
)
pursuant to the Ecology Law;
Page  9
(iii)
list all the Subprojects (broken down by sector) rejected by INE or 
withdrawn on environmental grounds;
(iv)
detail the results of PROFEPA enforcement with respect to Subprojects, 
including number of Subprojects visited by PROFEPA staff (broken 
down by sector) and fines and closures imposed by PROFEPA on 
environmental grounds with respect to Subprojects;
(v)
list all Subprojects on which INE received public comment, as well as all 
Subprojects for which public hearings were held by INE (broken down 
by sector and with a description of follow-on environmental measures 
precipitated by such comment or hearings);
(vi)
indicate the extent to which Subprojects in general use improved 
construction and other risk avoidance practices, better land use, 
reforestation, revegetation and similar measures to reduce vulnerability 
to natural forces; and
(vii)
evaluate the extent to which natural disaster damage, to which the 
Subprojects are responding, was precipitated  or exacerbated by 
inappropriate environmental practices (and propose relevant remediation 
measures therefor, to be carried out by the Federal Executing Agencies if 
satisfactory to the Bank);
(b) through SEDESOL, furnish to the Bank, two months after the end of each semester 
(beginning for the semester commencing on the Effective Date), reports, in a format satisfactory 
to the Bank, on the resettlement aspects of the Project; and (c) through INE, make publicly 
available through electronic media all filings received by INE, regarding Subprojects, pursuant to 
Article 8 of the Guarantor’s regulations, published on May 30, 2000, to the Ecology Law.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The 
Director General de Crédito Público
 of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Page  10
Facsimile:
Telex:
011-52-5-228-1685
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico 
City, Mexico as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Agustín Carstens Carstens
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Jesús Francisco Gil Díaz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Page  11
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $10,000,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract or bid package estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable 
to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (under Parts A.2 and B of the Project) estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 
equivalent, and works (under Parts A.2 and B of the Project) estimated to cost less than 
$10,000,000 equivalent per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$60,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods under Parts A.2 and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $560,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures (from a list of at least three suppliers, at least one of which is from a State different 
Page  12
from that of the others) in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods under Part A.1 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures (from a list of at least three suppliers, at least one of 
which is from a State different from that of the others) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
(a)
Works under Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors (from a list of at least three 
contractors, at least one of which is from a State different from that of the others) in response to a 
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
(b)
Works under Part A.1 of the Project may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors (from a list of at least three contractors, at least one of which is from a State 
different from that of the others) in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include 
a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, 
a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Goods and works under Part A.1 of the Project, which should be procured as an 
extension of a prior contract awarded in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, 
may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods under Part A.1 of the Project, costing less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract or bid package, and works under Part A.1 of the Project, costing less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract or bid package, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  13
2.
Prior Review
With respect to:  (a) each contract procured pursuant to Part B of this Section regardless 
of cost; (b) all other civil works contracts procured under Part A.2 and B of the Project costing 
$3,000,000 equivalent or more each; (c) all other goods contracts procured under Parts A.2 and B 
of the Project costing $500,000 equivalent or more each; (d) the first two goods contracts 
procured per State through national shopping procedures; and (e) the first two works contracts 
procured per State through procurement of small works procedures, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  14
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the short list of 
consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services that meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and costing $7,500,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. The short list of consultants may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part A.1 of the Project may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts (costing less than $18,000,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate) awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract under Parts A.2 and B of the Project for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract under Parts A.2 and B of the Project for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 (a) and 2 (b) of this Part D, no contracts under 
Part B of the Project shall be awarded without prior Bank approval of the terms of reference of 
the consulting firms and individual consultants involved.
Page  16
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 2
Subprojects Negative List
1.
Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening.
2.
Activities affecting natural protected areas recognized by federal, State or municipal 
governments (or buffer zones thereof), other than as required to mitigate damage caused by a 
natural disaster.
3.
Land reclamation (
i.e.
, drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to create land).
4.
Land clearance and leveling (when affecting critical natural habitats and natural land 
contours, natural habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most of the 
original plant and animal species are still present), except for clearing of debris resulting from an 
emergency.
5.
Hazardous waste management and disposal, as well as manufacture, transport and use of 
pesticides and other hazardous and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of solvents, 
degreasing materials, paints, fuels and the like used during construction).
6.
River training (
i.e.
,
realignment, contraction or deepening of an existing river channel, or 
excavation of a new river channel).
7.
Activities involving industrial plants (large-scale) and industrial estates.
8.
New road construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads (major means:  
changing the road category, such as from seasonal to all-weather or secondary to primary; adding 
new lanes; or changing road surface).
9.
New irrigation, drainage and flood control works.
10.
(a)
Activities which, when being carried out, would affect, or involve the use of, 
water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are 
bordered by countries other than Mexico, in such a manner as to in any way adversely change the 
quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering said countries; and (b) activities involving 
the installation or construction of facilities which, when operated after their construction or 
installation, would affect, or involve the use of, water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or 
their tributaries) which flow through or are bordered by countries other than Mexico, in such a 
manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or 
bordering said countries (unless such bordering countries have formally expressed in writing to 
the Bank and to the Guarantor their no-objection to the activities referred to in (a) or (b) herein).
11.
Activities relating to forestry production.
12.
Development of new, or expansion of existing, ports and harbors.
13.
Aquaculture and mariculture activities.
Page  18
14.
River basin development activities.
15.
Development of new, or expansion of existing, thermal power and hydropower facilities.
16.
Activities of any type classifiable as category A for environmental purposes pursuant to 
Annex B of the Bank’s December 1998 policy document entitled Good Practices (GP) 4.01.
17.
Conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats (as defined in the Bank’s 
September 1995 Operational Policy (OP) 4.04, Annex A, on natural habitats).
