Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7038-ME
Loan Agreement
(Natural Disaster Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
Dated December 15, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7038-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE 
OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
Page  2
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower 
in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CENAPRED” means the Guarantor’s 
Centro Nacional de Prevención de 
Desastres
 (National Disaster Prevention Center);
(b)
“CNA” means the Guarantor’s 
Comisión Nacional del Agua
 (National Water 
Commission);
(c)
“Ecology Law” means the Guarantor’s 
Ley General del Equilibrio Ecológico y 
la Protección al Ambiente
 (General Law for Ecological Balance and Protection of the 
Environment), published in the Guarantor’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 (Official Gazette) 
on January 28, 1988, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Emergency Reconstruction Subproject” means an investment activity, for which 
Loan proceeds have or will be disbursed, consisting of a combination of works, use of goods 
and/or application of technical assistance, aimed at responding to damage caused by a natural 
disaster and meeting the criteria set forth in Section 3.05 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(g)
“Emergency Recovery Subproject” means an investment activity, for which 
Loan proceeds have been or will be disbursed, consisting of a combination of works, use of 
goods and/or application of technical assistance, aimed at responding to damage caused by a 
natural disaster and meeting the criteria set forth in Section 3.05 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
Page  3
(h)
“Federal Executing Agency” means SHCP, SEMARNAP, SCT, SAGAR, 
SEDESOL, CENAPRED, SS, SEP or CNA;
(i)
“FONDEN Rules” means the 
Acuerdo que Establece las Reglas de Operación 
del Fondo de Desastres Naturales
 (Agreement Establishing the Rules for Operation of the 
Natural Disasters Fund), published in the Guarantor’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 (Official 
Gazette) on February 29, 2000;
(j)
“FONDEN Trust” means the trust established, pursuant to a trust agreement 
dated June 30, 1999 between the Guarantor as grantor and the Borrower as trustee, to administer 
funds to finance activities in response to natural disasters affecting Mexico;
(k)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating 
implementation of the Project;
(l)
“INE” means the Guarantor’s 
Instituto Nacional de Ecología
 (National Ecology 
Institute);
(m)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(n)
“Participating States” means States which have as grantors entered into a trust 
agreement
with the Borrower as trustee, to establish a trust to administer funds to finance 
activities in response to natural disasters affecting those States;
(o)
“PCC” means the committee referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of the Guarantee 
Agreement;
(p)
“PROFEPA” means the Guarantor’s 
Procuraduría Federal de Protección al 
Ambiente
 (Federal Environmental Protection Attorney’s Office);
(q)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement or Section 3.08 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(r)
“Resettlement Framework” means the resettlement rules and procedures set forth 
in a letter of even date herewith from the Guarantor to the Bank;
(s)
“SAGAR” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería y 
Desarrollo Rural
 (Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development Secretariat);
(t)
“SCT” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes
 
(Communications and Transportation Secretariat);
(u)
“SEDESOL” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Desarrollo Social
 (Social 
Development Secretariat);
(v)
“SEGOB” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Gobernación
 (Interior 
Secretariat);
Page  4
(w)
“SEMARNAP” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente, Recursos 
Naturales y Pesca
 (Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries Secretariat);
(x)
“SEP” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Educación Pública
 (Public 
Education Secretariat);
(y)
“SHCP” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
 
(Finance and Public Credit Secretariat);
(z)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(aa)
“SS” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Salud
 (Health Secretariat);
(ab)
“State” means any of the states, and the 
Distrito Federal
 (Federal District), 
which constitute the United Mexican States;
(ac)
“State Executing Agency” means a municipality of a Participating State or any 
agency of a Participating State or any agency of one of its municipalities, which carries out 
procurement under the Project;
(ad)
“State Trust” means a trust established, pursuant to a trust agreement between a 
State as grantor and the Borrower as trustee, to administer funds to finance activities in response 
to natural disasters affecting the State;
(ae)
“State Trust Agreement” means a trust agreement referred to in paragraphs (n) 
and (ad) of this Section; and
(af)
“Subproject” means an Emergency Recovery Subproject or an Emergency 
Reconstruction Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred four million fifty 
thousand Dollars ($404,050,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by 
the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.
Page  5
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on June 
1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
Page  6
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, contractual 
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia
,
for: (a) the 
transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the 
Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of 
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The 
Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under such contractual 
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the course of Project 
implementation, appropriate resources and mechanisms in place as required to carry out its 
obligations set forth in Sections 3.04 and 4.01 (a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
(b)
By no later than one year after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall have 
implemented a training program for its relevant staff, satisfactory to the Bank, with regard to 
proper application of the procurement and consultant selection rules set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) For each contract to be procured under the Project and proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, which is not subject to prior review by the Bank 
pursuant to Part D.2 of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement or Part D.2 of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement, the Borrower shall:  (i) carry out its own 
review of such procurement’s compliance with the terms of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee 
Agreement; and (ii) submit to the Bank (as part of any Borrower application for withdrawals 
from the Loan Account) evidence of expenditures, incurred pursuant to such contract, only if the 
Borrower is satisfied as a result of its own review that the procurement in question complies with 
the terms of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Page  7
(b)
For each contract procured under the Project pursuant to Part C.4 (b) and (c) of 
Section I of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement or Part C.2 of Section II of Schedule 1 to the 
Guarantee Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly after the signing of each such contract, 
obtain from the relevant Federal Executing Agency or State Executing Agency a written 
justification for the use of direct contracting or single-source selection procedures in the 
awarding of the contract, which justification shall:  (i) clearly establish a causal relationship 
between the relevant natural disaster (which disaster is the subject of a SEGOB declaration as 
indicated in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of the Guarantee Agreement) and the need for the contract; and 
(ii) be forwarded to the Bank by the Borrower (within six months from the end of the calendar 
quarter during which it was obtained), together with all such other justifications obtained by the 
Borrower during said quarter.
(c)
At the conclusion of each calendar month during Project implementation, the 
Borrower shall inform INE and relevant State environmental authorities of all Subproject 
activities for which contracts were awarded during said month.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall participate in the semi-annual and midterm reviews 
referred to in Section 3.09 (c) and (d) of the Guarantee Agreement, and shall throughout the 
course of Project implementation maintain a representative on the PCC.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system ((i) for itself; (ii) as trustee of the FONDEN Trust; and (iii) on behalf of State Executing 
Agencies through its role as trustee of the State Trusts), including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section (including those for the Special Account) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and procedures consistently applied, by independent 
and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested (including, as 
part of the information to be provided in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the Borrower’s internal controls); and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
Page  8
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures under the Project with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
or payment out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure or Project Management Reports submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(d)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to 
the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
October 31, 2001, or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project 
management reports for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, each of 
which:
(A) (I) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (II) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(B) (I) describes physical progress in implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (II) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project; and
(C) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
Page  9
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(ii)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (d) (i) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for 
such period for the Project.
(e)
As part of the audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall have compliance with the terms of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement audited with 
respect to Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, and have the results of such audit presented to the 
Bank as part of the audit reports referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) (B) of this Section.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any of the following instruments shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Guarantor to perform any of its obligations under the 
Guarantee Agreement or the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the 
Loan Agreement:  (i) the Ecology Law and/or regulations thereunder; (ii) the FONDEN Rules; 
(iii) the trust agreement referred to in Section 1.02 (j) of this Agreement; and (iv) any State Trust 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
have been entered into;
(b)
that the Guarantor has established the PCC and the PCC’s coordinator has been 
selected and is serving as such; and
(c)
that the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued by SHCP.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
Page  10
furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Guarantor, have 
been duly executed by them, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in 
accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 15, 2001, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The 
Director General
 of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
64145  (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
BANTECARIOBNOSME 01772619
011-52-5-
Mexico City
Mexico City
   723-6291
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico 
City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  11
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS
 Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ Tomás Ruiz González
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
to be
Category
Dollars
)
Financed
(1)
For Emergency Recovery
Subprojects:
(a)  goods
78,000,000
85%
(b)  works
83,000,000
60%
(c)  consultant services
15,000,000
100%
(2)
For Emergency
Reconstruction Subprojects:
(a)  goods
67,000,000
85%
(b)  works
73,000,000
60%
(c)  consultant services
15,000,000
100%
Page  12
(3)
Goods under Part B
60,009,500
85%
of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ services
9,000,000
100% 
and training under Part
B of the Project
(5)
Fee
4,040,500
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(6)
Premia for Interest Rate
0
Amount due under
Caps and Interest Rate
Section 2.09 (c)
Collars
of this Agreement
TOTAL
404,050,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for contracts not subject to prior review under Part D.2 of Section I of 
Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement, as well as for contracts not subject to prior review under 
Part D.2 of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.
For purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” means fees of trainers, provision of 
training materials, rental of training equipment and rooms, and reasonable travel and  
per diem
 
expenses of trainees. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de 
México
 on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for all 
withdrawals to be made on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for all withdrawals 
Page  13
to be made on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement and Section 3.08 (b) (ii) of 
the Guarantee Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said Sections in respect of the audit of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  14
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
$27,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Page  15
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of $80,000,000.
Page  16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce human, economic and financial costs of 
natural disasters in Mexico by (a) providing for prompt recovery measures after a natural disaster 
and (b) reducing the vulnerability of infrastructure to natural forces by supporting the 
Guarantor’s disaster impact prevention and recovery policies and institutional reforms and 
improving the Guarantor’s capacity for analyzing natural disaster risk.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Natural Disaster Response Investments
1.
Carrying out of Emergency Recovery Subprojects.
2.
Carrying out of Emergency Reconstruction Subprojects.
Part B
:
Prevention Studies and Capacity Building Activities
1.
Carrying out of analytical, design and policy studies, and provision to the Federal 
Executing Agencies of goods, technical assistance and training, to determine means (such as 
reduction of vulnerability of public infrastructure to natural forces and identification and design 
of priority disaster impact prevention investments) of preventing economic and human losses in 
the event of future natural disasters.
2.
Carrying out of studies, and provision to the Federal Executing Agencies of goods, 
technical assistance and training, to strengthen their ability to respond in an environmentally and 
socially sound manner to losses caused by natural disasters, use insurance and other risk transfer 
instruments to deal with natural disaster risk and conduct monitoring and evaluation of disaster 
response and damage prevention activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
Page  17
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 1 and December 1
Beginning June 1, 2006 through December 1, 2015
5.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either:  (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
Page  18
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
