Document of                 FILE   CP
The World Bank                               COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2943-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO"THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR THE
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 7, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   e      CFAF Franc (CFAF)
SDR 1   =     US$1.29 - CFAF 271
US$ 1   =      CFAF 210
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton         =     0.98 long ton (2,205 lbs.)
1 hectare (ha)       =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer                0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA      National Agricultural Credit Bank
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER   National Cereals Agency
ORD       Regional Development Organization
SOFITEX   Textile Fiber Company (Parastatal)
FISCAL YEARS
Government: January 1 - December 31
Project: April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOURGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     The Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:        SDR 12.4 million (U';$16.0 million)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:  This is follow up to the first Bougouriba Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (Credil: 496-UV). It would seek to consolidate
the experience of the first phase and, without expanding the
extension service, would aim at including a greater number of
farmers, further increasing agricultural and livestock produc-
tion in the Bougouriba ORD. Attention would be concentrated on
the technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved
organization of the training and extension systems, input
distribution and credit. Successful animal health activities
would be continued and improved animal husbandry practices and
increased use of animal traction promoted with modest adoption
goals recognizing the relative novelty of these ideas in the
area. About 22,000 of the 33,000 farm families in the area
would be directly reached by the agricultural extension program,
an increase of 9,001) from present levels. Emphasis would be
upon increasing yieLds of the main foodcrops -- millet and
sorghum -- by simple husbandry techniques; together with recom-
mendations for the cash crops grown by farmers in the various
regions - principaLly yams in the south, groundnuts in the
east, and cotton in the north and south. The project also
includes small prog-rams designed to encourage more fruit and
fuelwood tree planting, and erosion control.
Principal direct beniefits of the project would be the increases
in annual crop and Livestock production. The reorganized project
agricultural extensLon service would directly benefit over
200,000 people whose present per capita incomes are well below
the estimated absolute poverty level. Farm incomes would
increase significantly and better standards of living can be
expected. The forestry and anti-erosion components, though
limited, address funadamental problems facing Upper Volta.
Indirectly, through provision of technical assistance and
training, the project would improve the capability of nationals
to operate and manage development projects.
There are no unusuaL technical risks in the agricultural
and livestock programs. The proposed approach (except for
yams) has been tested elsewhere by Bank Group projects in Upper
Volta. Perceived risks are: breakdown of the marketing system
due to delays in implementing the road program or lack of
services provided by OFNACER and/or private traders; non-use
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of inputs because of price rises or breakdown in the delivery
system; speed of farmer response and difficulties on the part of
the Government in meeting its contribution to project costs.
The project has been designed to minimize these risks.
Estimated Cost:    Total project costs which exclude all identifiable taxes
and duties are detailed in the table below:
Local             Foreign         Total
--------------US$ Million-------------
1.   Agricultural Extension            2.8                0.6             3.4
2.   Training and Extension
Methods                          0.2                0.5             0.7
3.   Supply Service                    0.5                0.8             1.3
4.   Oxen, ox equipment and
incremental inputs               1.1                1.4             2.5
5.   Livestock                        0.5                 0.5             1.0
6.   Tree planting                    0.2                 0.1             0.3
7.   Headquarters                     0.6                 2.2             2.8
8.   Monitoring and Planning           0.2                0.2             0.4
Total Base Costs                 6.1                6.3            12.4
Physical Contingencies           0.5                0.6             1.1
Price Contingencies              1.8                2.2             4.0
Total Project Costs              8.4                9.1            17.5
Financing Plan:   The IDA Credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million)
would cover 100 percent of all foreign exchange costs and
82 percent of local costs.
IDA                  Government                  Total
…---------- ----------US$-000…
Local Cost           6.9                     1.5                       8.4
Foreign Cost         9.1                      -                        9.1
Total          16.0                      1.5                      17.5
Percent        91.0                      9.0                     100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY     FY     FY      FY     FY      FY     FY
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
------------------SDR Million-----------------
Annual                            0.5    2.3    2.5    2.2    2.6    2.1    0.4
Cumulative                        0.5    2.8    5.3    7.5   10.1   12.2   12.4



- iii -
Rate of Return:                   23 percent
Appraisal Report:                 No. 3126a-UV
Map:                              IBRD 15127R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMME1DATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VIOLTA FOR THE SECOND BOUGOURIBA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republiz of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to SDR12.4 million (US$16.0 milli3n) on standard IDA terms to help finance
the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum; Upper Volta"
(2146-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
Information from that report is incorporated in the paragraphs which follow.
Annex I contains country data.
Socio-Economic Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$180 in 1979, Upper Volta is one
of the poorest African countries and is classified among the 29 "least
developed countries" by the United Nations. The economy is overwhelmingly
rural. Total land area is 274,OCO km2, of which 194,000 km2 can be used
for agriculture. The physical constraints to development of the economy
include extreme variability of rainfall, generally poor soils, few exploitable
minerals, the country's landlocked position, and limited potential for indus-
trialization.
4.        The uneven distributiorL and low level of development of human
resources pose a major additional. constraint to the country's economic
progress. Almost two thirds of the resident population of 5.7 million (1979)
is concentrated on the central plateau, which comprises one third of the
arable land. The pressure of population on the plateau has led to severe
degradation of soils in that area, resulting in persistently low crop yields,
and has given rise to large out-migration to the southwest region and neigh-
boring countries. A four percent annual increase in urbanization also
accounts for part of the internal population movement. Overall population
growth, which has averaged 1.6 percent yearly from 1970-78, is projected to
decline in the 1980s as a result of continued emigration. The level of
skills and basic education in the country is extremely low, as evidenced by
the enrollment of only 22 percenl: of the relevant age group in primary
school and nonformal rural educat:ion centers. Only about 2 percent of
1/   Following a coup d'etat on November 25, 1980, Colonel Saye Zerbo
became President and formed a new government.



- 2 -
the economically active population, or some 50,000 people are engaged in
salaried employment.
Performance of National Output
5.        The dominant sectors of the economy, agriculture and livestock,
have been characterized during the past decade by a low average growth of
real output, stagnant productivity and little structural change. The
generally low productivity of the primary sector is indicated by its
relatively small contribution to GDP - averaging 40 percent from 1974 to 1978
- relative to the share of agricultural employment. The sector suffered a
major setback from the prolonged drought which culminated in 1973/74 and
recovery was hampered by a recurrence of bad weather in 1976/77. The real
growth of agricultural output was actually negative from 1974 to 1978.
6.        The secondary and tertiary sectors, which contributed on average
15 percent and 45 percent, respectively, to domestic output over 1974-78
averaged 3 percent annual growth in real output over the same period. The
strongest share of this growth is attributable to government services, which
account for 10 percent of GDP, and to commerce. The greater part of the
industrial and construction sectors share of national income is still
accounted for by traditional small scale production, although modern
manufacturing output is expanding rapidly with the aid of fiscal incentives
and protection.
7.        On balance, real GDP has remained almost stationary from 1974-78
and has actually declined in per capita terms. Domestic inflation averaged
12 percent during this period, fueled by foodcrop shortages and high import
prices. The trend in agricultural output markedly improved in 1978 and 1979
following favorable weather and increases in producer prices. Overall,
however, the performance of the economy in the latter half of the 1970s
highlights its extreme vulnerability to climatic variation and to trends
in international inflation.
Balance of Payments
8.        Upper Volta-s trade balance has progressively deteriorated over
the past decade as the growth of exports, which consist almost entirely of
agricultural and livestock products, has failed to keep pace with the growth
of imports. Factors enlarging the deficit have included credit expansion and
rising domestic investment, which enhanced the demand for capital goods, and
shortfalls in food production coupled with the rising cost of fuel and related
imports. Until 1975, however, private transfers, especially workers' remit-
tances, and increasing aid flows kept the overall balance of payments in
surplus. From 1975 to 1978, the deficit in the external account widened
annually as the trade gap grew faster than the inflow of official aid. This
trend appears to have been reversed in 1979, largely through an expansion of
official transfers and foreign borrowing.
Public Finance
9.        Prior to 1975, the Government's conservative fiscal policies
enabled it to accumulate large budget surpluses which were reflected in



- 3 -
an accumulated cash balance of CFAF 9.3 billion (US$38.7 million) in 1974.
This pattern of tightly restrained expenditure changed in 1975 with an in-
creased commitment to investment and heightened spending on defense, personnel
and administration. Despite a doubling of government current revenues from
about CFAF 16 billion (US$74.7 million) in 1975 to CFAF 31 billion in 1978
(US$140.9 million), an overall Treasury deficit of at least CFAF 2 billion
(US$9.1 million) has appeared each year since 1976. This imbalance is
estimated to have reached nearly CFAF 7 billion (US$33.3 million) in 1979.
10.       The sources of this increasing deficit in Treasury operations are
multiple: expanded investment expenditure, increases in public sector wages,
extraordinary expenditures associated with the transition to parliamentary
government in 1978, a slowdown in tariff receipts, and weaknesses in tax
collection. The deficit has beer, financed largely by drawing down deposits
with the Central Bank, external borrowing (including assistance from the IMF
and commercial banks) and an accumulation of payment arrears to domestic
suppliers. The financial situation of the Treasury is complicated con-
siderably by the lack of coordination between investment planning and the
programming of budgetary expendil:ures. Moreover, the Government suffers
from generally weak financial controls as evidenced by a proliferation of
extra budgetary accounts in the Treasury, the lack of centralized reporting of
foreign assistance receipts, and an inadequate review of budgetary requests.
Foreign Assistance and Investmeni:
11.       Gross domestic investment, which averages about one quarter of GDP,
is financed almost entirely by foreign official inflows. The planning of
development expenditure has consLsted largely of compiling projects for which
donor financing is assured or likely. Although three development plans have
been prepared, the latest covering the 1977/81 period, the process of formu-
lating the investment programs has involved little evaluation and selection of
projects by Government based upon economic criteria and development priori-
ties. In cooperation with the IMF, the Bank has discussed with the Government
needed reforms of the financial management and investment planning process and
possible technical assistance to implement them, and intends to maintain this
dialogue with the new Government.
12.       Despite the absence of a distinct investment program, foreign aid to
Upper Volta has continued at a high level, with both commitments and disburse-
ments of official inflows exceeding total budget revenues throughout most of
the 1970s. Most of this aid is on highly concessional terms. The principal
foreign donors are France, the E;uropean Development Fund, Canada, the United
States, the Association, and thE UNDP.
13.       Foreign capital and technical assistance clearly have a vital role
to play in the development of Upper Volta. In view of the country s poverty
and limited resources, it is appropriate for external lending agencies
to continue to provide assistance on highly concessionary terms and to
finance a high proportion of project costs, including a substantial amount
of local costs.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Upper Volta amount to US$130.0
million and cover twenty IDA credits and one IFC investment. The IDA
projects include nine agriculture, four transportation, two education, two
telecommunications, one small and medium scale enterprise, and one urban
development project. The IFC investment is for plastic production. The
agriculture and transportation sectors account for 47 and 28 percent,
respectively, of total lending for IDA projects. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC commitments as of October 31, 1980, and
includes notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Implementation has
experienced delays due to shortages of qualified personnel and of local
funds. Delays and world price inflation have led to cost overruns in several
projects, necessitating supplementary financing or elimination of lower
priority components. In the past, financial control on some projects has been
weak; measures will be formulated to address this issue based on a recent
country specific study. On the whole, past project performance has been
satisfactory given the environmental, institutional and managerial con-
straints within the country.
15.       The Bank Group's lending strategy for the future is in line with
the Government's priorities in the Third Development Plan, and will continue
to support the Government-s efforts to: (a) increase productivity in agricul-
ture, from which most of the population derives its livelihood; (b) strengthen
basic infrastructure facilities through road construction and upgrading, and
in telecommunications; (c) promote training of skilled technicians in view of
the country s limited supply of trained manpower; and (d) mobilize resources
from co-donors.
16.       Consistent with the above strategy, future Bank group lending for
Upper Volta will continue to emphasize assistance to the agriculture and
transport sectors. In agriculture, operations would include second phase
agricultural development projects for both food and cash crops for the West
Volta ORD-s of Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou, and a third Rural Development
Fund Project to carry out small scale projects such as bottomland development,
irrigation and erosion control. In transport, projects are envisaged for
highway maintenance, construction and improvement; second phase feeder road
construction and improvement, and a second section of the Abidjan Niger
Railway to be executed with the Ivory Coast. In addition, a hydroelectric
power and irrigation project and a third telecommunications project to extend
local and long-distance services introduced by previous phases and to intro-
duce services in other provincial areas are foreseen.
17.       Upper Volta-s external public debt at the end of 1978 amounted
to US$337.3 million (including US$146.6 undisbursed) of which IDA credits
accounted for 33 percent. The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
services was 6.2 percent in 1978. Since most loans to Upper Volta have been
made on concessionary terms and a number of donors have recently converted
their outstanding loans into grants, the debt service ratio is not likely to
increase significantly over the next several years.



- 5 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
18.       Agriculture is the dominant sector of the economy, providing a
livelihood for over 80 percent cf the population, and producing about 40
percent of GDP and 90 percent of official export earnings.  Crop farming,
mostly under shifting cultivation, produces 25-30 percent of GDP and about
60 percent of exports. Livestock contributes about 10 percent to GDP and
30 percent to exports. About 8 percent of the land, or 2.2 million ha, is
cultivated each year, the major portion (85 percent) of which is used for
basic food crops - sorghum, milLet and maize - accounting for 80 percent of
production value. Most of the remaining 15 percent of the cultivated area is
used for cotton, the country's riost important cash and export crop.
19.       The crop, livestock and forestry subsectors all suffer from low
productivity and face serious constraints. Foodcrop production with tradi-
tional methods is unable to keep up with increasing demand. Adoption of new
techniques for dryland farming has been limited in part by the lack of
appropriate research, and irrigation appears to be too expensive in most
cases. There are few profitable export crops--cotton, mangoes, green beans,
sheanuts--and only cotton has benefited from major efforts to expand produc-
tion and raise productivity. Growth in domestic meat consumption is reducing
once sizeable livestock exports, but expansion of livestock production is
limited by lack of fodder and water in areas free of trypanosomiasis and by
the tsetse challenge in wetter areas with unused resources. There is also
increasing competition with farners over land, and future development must
promote closer integration of livestock with crop cultivation. The forestry
subsector, which provides firewDod, building poles, fodder and a range of food
and medicinal products, is threatened by continued clearing for crops, bush-
fires, and a fast growing demand for firewood, particularly around urban
areas.
20.       Although Upper Volta can achieve self-sufficiency in cereal produc-
tion in years with adequate rainfall, it is unable to do so in all years.
Production of sorghum, millet, maize and rice in 1977--a below average year--
amounted to about 950,000 tons, net of seeds and losses, insufficient to
meet demand in 1978 estimated at about 1 million tons. The difference was
more than covered by imports, somewhat less than half being food aid.
Future demand is likely to grou at least as rapidly as population, whereas
food output, if past trends continue, will lag behind. Dependence on imported
food is thus likely to increase, but the proposed project would help the
country reduce future imports, especially in normal years. Avoiding food
imports in all years raises difficult technical problems of storage and
incentives to carry over surpluses from excellent years.
21.       Cotton is the most inportant cash crop and a major export.
Production began in the early 1950s and had reached some 36,000 tons in
1969/70. During the following drought years, production stagnated at around
30,000 tons annually, but has Eince increased, with favorable weather in
1979 contributing to a record cutput of 78,000 tons. Over 80 percent of
this cotton was produced in the western regions which include the Bougouriba
ORD.



- 6-
Principal Sectoral Institutions
22.       The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) is responsible for agricul-
tural and livestock planning, organization, and national support services,
including research and seed production. It oversees several parastatals and
eleven Regional Development Organizations (ORDs), public agencies reporting to
the Secretary-General of MRD and supervised by Boards of Directors represent-
ing the local administration and population. The ORDs cover the entire
country except for the areas adjacent to the three Volta rivers, largely
depopulated due to riverblindness, which are the responsibility of the Volta
Valleys Development Authority. The ORDs have a large degree of autonomy and
carry out a wide range of activities, such as extension services, input
supply, construction of small rural works, women's programs, cooperatives and
community development, and economic analysis and planning. They rely on
central public services for technical activities, such as construction of
feeder roads. buildings, wells and irrigation works. The ORDs also carry out
the day-to-day operations related to agricultural credit, and will continue
this function although the newly created National Agricultural Credit Bank
(CNCA) will manage and control credit funds and assist in training. Most
agricultural research is conducted by foreign institutions.
23.       Marketing of cereals is carried out by two parastatal agencies and
by a large number of private traders. The National Cereals Agency (OFNACER)
is endeavoring to ensure that farmers throughout the country receive the
official prices for cereals, and to make the official consumer prices effec-
tive. OFNACER has also not yet met its targets of local purchases, however,
and its grain sales have consisted mainly of food aid. At present OFNACER is
operating at a loss, but the Government intends to continue meeting the
agency's operating deficits. The Voltaic Marketing Company (SOVLCOM) retails
a variety of goods, including local and imported rice.
24.       Cotton marketing and ginning are undertaken by a well-functioning
organization jointly owned by the Government and the French Textile Fibre
Development Company, which was recently transformed from a partnership into
the Voltaic Textile Fibre Company (SOFITEX). In the past, sizeable cash
surpluses from cotton operations were used to finance ORD activities and to
subsidize inputs used on cotton and other crops (mainly cereals). The
Cotton Development Fund established under the first project to channel funds
from cotton to broader rural development activities will be continued under
the second project. The financing of input subsidies especially on crops
other than cotton poses major problems, however, as falling export prices in
the last two years reduced cotton surpluses (see para 50). Improving cotton
prices are forecast through 1990, and cotton can thus be expected to continue
to play a key role in the economy.
Sectoral Development Strategy
25.       The Government's strategy for agriculture gives priority to   (a)
developing rainfed agriculture by promoting improved farming practices and
integrating cropping and livestock activities; (b) dealing with migration



from the densely populated and relatively infertile north central plateau to
areas in the west and southwest which have lower population densities and
better agricultural potential; (c) gradually expanding irrigation, thus
helping to protect the country against the impact of major drought; and (d)
ensuring national self-sufficiercy in foodcrops in line with this strategy.
Bank Group lending for Upper Volta, emphasizes promotion of dryland agricul-
tural development of food and cash crops. Related objectives are rehabili-
tating poor and overexploited soils, mainly in the north, and helping to
deal with internal migration, through extension activities in in-migration
zones.
Bank Sectoral Experience
26.       IDA has financed seven rural development projects in Upper Volta,
of which three are completed. The Completion Report on the Cotton Project
(Credit 225-UV, approved in 197(i) noted that substantial improvements in
farming practices had occurred and that, as a lesson of experience, the
follow-up West Volta Project (Credit 706-UV) was based on an integrated
rather than a single-crop approach.  The rate of return, 37 percent, exceeded
the appraisal estimate of 31 percent largely because of an increase in cotton
prices which had not been foreseen at appraisal. The Rural Development Fund
Project (Credit 317-UV) was started in 1972 and the Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) confirmed that the project had been successful in implement-
ing a variety of scattered subprojects including wells, village storage
facilities, bottomland development, erosion control measures, small irrigation
schemes and feeder roads. The rate of return of 19 percent compared with an
appraisal estimate of 16 percent. The Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit
442-UV), approved in 1973, used the RDF organization to develop clean water
supplies for 105 villages and build grain storage facilities and feeder
roads. No rate of return was calculated for this project.
27.       Ongoing Bank group involvement in the rural sector includes the
Second Rural Development Fund and West Volta Agricultural Development
projects, which have been making good progress. The first Bougouriba
Project, after a slow start, has also achieved satisfactory results (see
paras. 34 to 37). The Livestock Project is making good progress in im-
proving animal health; due to organizational and other problems, however,
the number of ranches the project was to establish for pastoralists has been
cut from nine to three and the amount of the Credit reduced by US$3.0
million. The Niena Dionkele Rice Project and Forestry Project were recently
declared effective.
28.       A general problem witlh lending to Upper Volta noted in Completion
Reports and PPAR's, continues to be the Government's difficulty in providing
sufficient funds for maintaining services established under a project after
the implementation period has ended. To ease the burden resulting from
Government's required budgetary support, various means of cost recovery are
being introduced. The recently approved Niena Dionkele Rice Development
project will charge for land use. The proposed Bougouriba and Koudougou



- 8 -
projects would aim to make their supply services self-supporting by intro-
ducing a margin on inputs. (see para. 37). The Bank is studying the problem
of recurrent cost financing in the context of bngoing sector work and is
considering providing technical assistance to the Ministries of Finance, Plan-
ning and Rural Development for improvement of financial management problems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed project was identified in 1977 following Government's
request for a second project in the Bougouriba area. The project was
appraised in February-March 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. from November 3 to 7, 1980; the Upper Voltan delegation was led by Mr.
Sanon Salia, Secretary General, Ministry of Rural Development. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Bougouriba Agricultural Develop-
ment Project," No. 3126a-UV dated December 15, 1980 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data is
contained in Annex III.
Objectives
30.       Over a five year period, the proposed project would consolidate
the experience of a first phase project (see paras. 34 and 36) and further
increase agricultural and livestock production. Without expanding the exist-
ing extension service, the project would aim at reaching a greater number of
farmers; 22,000 of the 33,000 farm families in the area would be directly
reached by the agricultural extension program, an increase of 9,000 from the
level achieved under the first phase. Attention would be concentrated on the
technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved organization of
training, extension, input distribution and credit. Emphasis would be upon
increasing yields of the main food crops, millet and sorghum, by simple
husbandry techniques, together with recommendations for the cash crops grown
by farmers in the various regions--principally yams in the south, groundnuts
in the east, and cotton in the north and south. Small programs would plant
trees for fruit and fuelwood production, and erosion control.
Project Area
31.       The project area is the territory of the Bougouriba ORD in the
southwest of Upper Volta.  The ORD has an area of about 17,500 km2 and a
total population of about 390,000 (about 33,000 "family units") of which 85
percent are engaged in agriculture. Population density averages 22/km2.
32.       The topography of the ORD is undulating with eroded hills, large
stretches of plains crossed by small streams in the wet season, and areas
of swamplands. Eighty percent of the area can be cultivated. The complex
soils, however, are poor in organic material and deficient in phosphorous and
potassium. In general, the project area is in Upper Volta's best climatic
region for agricultural development. Total annual rainfall varies from



- 9 -
1,000 mm in the north to 900 to l,200 mm in the south. While evapotrans-
piration rates are high, water is in surplus for plant growth from June
through September, and this is adequate for the successful cultivation of a
wide range of annual crops. However, the principal limiting factor is not
total annual rainfall but the tining and number of days on which there is
rain. Rainfall is frequently deficient after sowing, and sometimes also
between flowering and crop maturity. In both cases output falls. This
uncertainty is taken into account when forecasting crop yields for the
proposed project.
Experience of the First Project
33.       The first Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Credit
496-UV of July 19, 1974 and EEC Special Action Credit 50-UV of February 8,
1980) provided for the development of the natural and human resources of the
bougouriba ORD with programs for cotton, foodcrop and livestock development;
well construction; feeder road Improvements; agricultural credit; staff
training and applied research. Implementation of the livestock and infra-
structure components (wells, roz.ds and buildings) has been successful with
appraisal targets achieved for the most part. Thus an infrastructure has
been put in place on which further rural development can be based--notably
650 km of feeder roads, 119 vil]age wells, 33 warehouses, and ORD head-
quarters. With regard to agricultural production, the project followed a
multi-crop approach directed at both cotton and foodcrops which at appraisal
assumed that farmers adoption of improved technical packages would result
in a threefold increase in cash crop production--cotton, with foodcrop
production, mainly for home consumption, rising by only 5 percent. In fact,
the project in its fifth year (:.979/80) achieved production increases of 145
percent and 5 percent, respectively. The rate of return is estimated as 15
percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 68 percent, now seen to be
overly optimistic in its expectations of the time necessary for effectively
functioning services to be in place and of the rate of adoption of the
technical package by farmers. Development of trained extension staff, and
subsequently their impact on farming practices, has taken place more slowly
than anticipated at appraisal. In April 1979, the training and visit system
was introduced and extension services were reorganized.
34.       Experience of the first project has shown that the Bougouriba
area has potential for agricultural development. The project was success-
ful, if belatedly so, in creating an enthusiastic extension staff, in
sensitizing farmers to the potential benefits of improved methods and in
establishing a physical infrastructure of buildings and feeder roads.
Project Description
35.       The follow-up project would further exploit the region's poten-
tial, essentially following the thrust of the first project, while somewhat
changing the emphasis in light of experience. The proposed second project
would:
(i) complete the introduction of the training and visit system;



- 10 -
(ii) introduce a new service for staff training and extension
techniques covering the needs of agricultural, livestock and
forestry extension and management;
(iii) establish a supply and credit service utilizing the existing
warehouse networks;
(iv) continue animal health services, and encourage improved animal
production practices;
(v) plant 350 ha of family fuelwood and fruit trees and 500 ha of
protective bunds and tree planting to counter erosion;
(vi) continue support to the ORD headquarters through additional
staff and technical assistance, and construct an additional
office block; and
(vii) establish a small monitoring unit, and provide funds for
evaluation studies.
36.       Extension Service.  The changeover to the training and visit
system of extension introduced in 1979 would be completed during the first
two years of the project.  The system would be tailored to Upper Voltan
conditions in the light of experience gained at the West Volta Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 706-UV). Allied to the extension service would
be a seeds section to ensure multiplication and distribution of improved
seeds, and a trials and demonstrations section which would work in close
collaboration with research bodies and farmers in conducting field trials
and demonstrations.   A small training unit for retraining groups of up to 30
agents at a time would be established. It would cover the training needs of
specialist livestock and forestry staff, as well as serving as a means of
integrating livestock and forestry themes into the work program of the
agricultural extension workers.
37.       Supply and Credit Service.  A Supply and Credit Service will be
created within the ORD by March 31, 1983 (Schedule 2, Part C of the Credit
Agreement). It will allow the costs of distribution and credit to be more
readily identified and serve as a tool for involving farmers, thereby
creating the possibility of passing a soundly functioning service, in a
subsequent phase, to full or partial farmer management, or even as a private
enterprise. A mark-up on input prices will be implemented on a phased
basis. In order to accustom farmers to higher prices without adverse
effects on input usage, the extension service will sensitize farmers to
price increases. In year 2 of the project a 5 percent mark-up will be
introduced on the unsubsidized price and progressively increased so that by
year 5 the Service would be self-financing (Section 3.12 of the Credit
Agreement). Credit granted for annual inputs and draft equipment would be
managed by the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole which would also assist
with training the Service staff to handle daily operations. The project
would meet the credit needs for 1,500 sets of oxen and ox equipment and the
incremental requirements of annual inputs.



- 11 -
38.       Livestock.  The health and productivity of herds in the ORD,
consisting of 120,000 taurin and taurin-zebu cattle owned by farmers, and of
20,000 zebu cattle owned by Peul herdsmen, would be protected by continuing
the animal health campaign, which would also protect the human population
from anthrax. Sheep, goats and poultry would be protected by similar cam-
paigns. For these purposes the project would finance the construction of a
sector office and 3 new veterinary posts, 16 new vaccination yards, and the
repair of 52 others. Animal production themes, such as encouraging use of
feed supplements or other fodder crops, or to better integrate livestock
into the agricultural cycle, e.g. manure making would be promoted by ten
specialist extension agents, aided by the audio-visual program, and the
agricultural extension work program.
39.       Family Tree Planting and Anti-Erosion Work.  The project would
support a small pilot activity complementary to the Forestry Project (Credit
982-UV), and geared to (i) meeting some priority needs in those areas of the
ORD where removal of the tree cover is a problem; and (ii) creating an aware-
ness of the importance of tree flanting. Eight additional Forestry Depart-
ment junior staff would encourage 100 farm families to plant 350 ha of fruit
or firewood trees during the prcject execution period. Seedlings would come
from an existing nursery at Diebougou and a nursery to be reestablished at
Gaoua. The local forest service would also work with the population of
Diebougou to recreate a green belt around the town covering 150 ha, and with
the ORD to guard against erosior. on a 135 ha area lying above the ORD head-
quarters. Other anti-erosion activities form part of the general agricultural
extension work.
40.       ORD Headquarters.  The project would be managed by the Bougouriba
ORD, which would require additicnal staff office space, and other related
equipment.
41.       Monitoring and StudieE.  The project includes a team of seven
enumerators (one per sector) whcse work would be supplemented by the basic
records kept by extension agentE. A central staff of 5 will summarize and
analyze this data and also ensure that regular quarterly reports on project
activities are prepared by the various services in a suitable form.
Project Organization and Implementation
42.       As is the case in the first project, the proposed project would
be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) and
would be executed by the Bougouriba ORD. Four units report to the ORD direc-
tor--technical, administrative, the field extension structure and monitoring.
Separate technical services under the Technical Director would be responsible
for the agricultural program. A Financial Coordinator would be introduced
to supervise matters of financial control and general administration. A new
post of Training Specialist would be added and a Cotton Specialist would
be employed to focus on these areas. Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement
amends the provisions of corresponding sections of the earlier credit
agreements in order to reflect the revised staffing structure. The ORD
would be assisted in its project: role by the Forestry Service and by the
National Agricultural Credit Barik (CNCA), with whom close coordination
would be necessary. Marketing of project production would be through local
markets, private traders, OFNACER (cereals) and SOFITEX (cotton).



- 12 -
43.        The first phase project supervised its own feeder road rehabilita-
tion, constructing 650 km of rural roads. The primary road network of 400
km, under the auspices of the Ministry of Public Works, received inadequate
maintenance during the project period. Production forecasts for the pro-
posed project assume the ongoing maintenance of the 650 km of rural roads
constructed under the first project; the construction and subsequent mainte-
nance of 650 km of rural roads; and the rehabilitation; and subsequent
maintenance of some 400 km of national roads in the project area. These
works would be undertaken by the recently appraised fourth highway project.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government would under-
take the necessary road programs in the Bougouriba area, and that the relevant
road services would consult the ORD each year when planning their work pro-
grams (Section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
44.        Technical assistance is required in the fields of general agricul-
ture, cotton, training, administration, monitoring and evaluation and audit-
ing. Funds would be provided for four internationally recruited project
staff positions (17 man-years) and one position at the CNCA (5 man-years),
estimated to cost about US$100,000 per man-year. Consulting and auditing
services (44 man-months) are estimated to cost US$440,000 at a per man-month
cost of US$10,000. These costs are in line with previous experience in Upper
Volta and francophone West Africa in general. All experts and consultants
would have qualifications and experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
45.        The cost of the project is estimated at US$17.5 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$9.1 million (52 percent). Project costs
exclude all identifiable taxes and duties since Government has notified the
Association of its willingness to exempt the project from these costs.
A detailed breakdown of costs is shown in the table of the Credit and Project
Summary. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million)
would finance 91 percent of project costs net of taxes, equivalent to 100
percent of foreign exchange costs and 82 percent of local costs. Upper
Volta would contribute 9 percent of project costs or approximately US$1.5
million. It is currently estimated that funds of the first project will be
exhausted in February 1981. To allow for the possibility that credit signing
may occur after this date, retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 is
included.
46.        Cost estimates are based on prices and quotations obtained during
appraisal in February 1980, revised to allow for anticipated price increases
to February 1981. Physical contingencies added to base costs are 15 percent
for civil works, and 10 percent for vehicles, non-farm equipment and operating
costs. Base costs plus physical contingencies were increased overall by some
30 percent to allow for expected price inflation, calculated at the following
annual rates for both the local and foreign components: 9 percent in 1981,
8 percent in 1982, and 7 percent thereafter.



- 13 -
Agricultural Credit
47.       Credit activities to date have been modest, and recovery of
short-term credit is normally in excess of 90 percent. The first recoveries
for medium-term credit were made in 1979 with recovery of about 70 percent.
The Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) of which Upper Volta is a
member, permits a maximum of 15.5 percent on short-term credit and 11
percent on medium-term. Medium- and short-term credit is presently made
available to small farmers in Upper Volta at 9.0 percent. However, Govern-
ment informed the Association that it will increase interest rates nationally
on short- and medium-term credit to 11 percent by the first agricultural
campaign of the project (1981). This rate compares to the present inflation
rate of 12 percent which is expected to decline in line with international
trends. Government also informed us of its willingness to establish interest
rates based on the real cost of :Eunds (including inflation) to the CNCA plus
administrative costs and to introduce separate interest rates, should this
prove desirable, for short- and medium-term credit. These are important
steps towards achieving positive rates.
48.       Lending conditions would be in accordance with CNCA general
lending terms, which are: for seasonal credit, no down payment, with
repayment of principal and interest within one year; for oxen and equipment
credit: a down payment between LO and 20 percent, and repayment in four
equal installments after a one-year grace period for capital. In the case
of oxen, a 10 percent insurance payment for four years would be required,
but 75 percent of the payments less claims for each village group would be
refunded to the group after five years. Credit would, within two years,
only be made available to members of farmers' groups. A group whose members
as a whole were less than 90 percent repaid for the second previous year
would not be eligible for further credit until its arrears had been cleared.
These terms will also apply to other IDA-financed projects, requiring amend-
ment to the credit agreements or supplemental letters for the Second Rural
Development Fund Project (Credit 640-UV), the West Volta Agricultural
Development Project (Special Action Credit 49-UV), and the Niena Dionkele
Rice Development Project (Credit 1013-UV). Details of the above terms
(including interest rates), policies and procedures of CNCA operations
would be submitted for the Association's approval as a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement).
Financial Implications for Government
49.       During project implementation, the Government's net cash flow from
the project would be positive. From the end of the implementation period,
the Governnment's cash flow situation would depend on what further actions
are taken in the project. Thus if the Government maintained the level of
ORD expenditure without external financing, and if there were no further
production increases or increases in Government revenue from the project
after implementation period, e.g. the project would experience an annual
cash deficit of CFAF 160 million (US$760,000). This "worst case" scenario,
which is typical of the situatioa where readily taxable cash crops do not form
the bulk of the project output, represents the budgetary risk for the Govern-
ment. If, on the other hand, a follow-up project is realized with external
financing and if production increases further as    esult, the Government's
cash flow would be positive.  If no follow-up pro..; t were realized and



- 14 -
Government reduced expenditure in the ORD to the level strictly needed to
maintain the level of output likely to be achieved under the present project,
the Government would experience a net cash surplus of CFAF 50 million
(US$240,000).
50.       The cash flow surplus would be US$550,000 if subsidies on inputs
were totally eliminated. On national volumes, Government cannot afford the
input subsidies, but it is expected to move cautiously in reducing them.
During negotiations, Government agreed that a gradual elimination of ferti-
lizer subsidies would be initiated. By the second year of the project, the
subsidy would be reduced by 7 percent of the unsubsidized price, and by the
year of project completion, the subsidy would be reduced by 50 percent of
the subsidy in effect in the fifth year of the project. The effects of the
fertilizer price increases, on the price of agricultural products and on
agricultural production will be the subject of consultation between the
Association and Government. (Section 3.09 of the Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
51.       Procurement of civil works (totalling US$1.6 million) would be
by competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures which are
acceptable to the Association, or with the agreement of the Association by
force account. Experience in Upper Volta has shown that works in remote
areas of the size anticipated do not attract international firms, nor often
competent national contractors. Equipment and supplies relating to civil
works undertaken by force account will be procured in accordance with the
relevant categories that follow. Farm and livestock inputs (US$2.4 million),
vehicles (US$0.7 million) and equipment (US$0.2 million) other than animal
traction equipment, would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Association guidelines for contracts
over US$100,000 through local competitive bidding acceptable to the Associa-
tion for contracts between US$30,000 and US$100,000 and through local
competitive shopping for contracts under US$30,000. Animal traction equip-
ment (US$0.8 million) would be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures. Oxen for sale on credit (US$0.7 million) would be purchased in
local markets. Domestically manufactured goods under ICB would be allowed a
preference of 15 percent or the level of the applicable import duty, which-
ever is lower. Internationally recruited staff (US$2.2 million), consul-
tants (US$1.3 million), and auditors (US$0.1 million) would be employed
following procedures acceptable to the Association. Remaining project costs
consist of local salaries, wages and allowances (US$5.5 million) and operating
and maintenance costs (US$2.0 million).
52.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million)
would be disbursed over six years as follows: 100 percent for consultants,
non national staff salaries and allowances and audits (SDR 2.4 million);
vehicles, equipment and construction materials (SDR 0.6 million); civil
works (SDR 1.1 million); national contractual staff salaries and allowances
(SDR 3.5 million); and operating and maintenance costs (SDR 0.9 million); and
87 percent for farm equipment and oxen for resale (SDR 0.8 million), and
incremental annual inputs (SDR 1.4 million); Unallocated funds total SDR 1.3
million. The project Special Account (see para 54) will receive an initial
deposit of SDR 0.4 million.



- 15 -
Accounts, Audits and Reports
53.       During the first project, accounts have been well kept and the
project accounts have received satisfactory audit reports. The ORD would be
required to continue to keep records consistent with sound accounting prac-
tices and adequately reflecting its operations and financial position.
In particular, separate accounts would be kept for the supply service,
agricultural credit, all other project activities and the ORD in general to
ensure easy identification of project costs and disbursements. As with
other agricultural projects in Upper Volta, the various accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
(Section 4.02 of the Credit Agreenient).
54.       Because Upper Volta has difficulty in prefinancing expenditures,
an amount of SDR 0.4 million (US$0.5 million) advanced from the IDA Credit,
would be deposited in a special bank account under the joint control of the
ORD Director and the project's Financial Coordinator. As with other Upper
Volta projects, disbursements would normally be made in local currency
from the special account and reimbursement made by the Association to this
account. Reimbursement applications, would also be accompanied by (i) a
statement of movements on the account since the previous applications, with
the balance certified by the bank holding the account; and (ii) a reconcilia-
tion showing that the balance represents the original amount deposited in the
account less payments awaiting reimbursement, or small working advances.
Should any disbursements be made for expenditures not allowable under the IDA
credit, Government would redeposit the corresponding amount (Section 2.02 of
the Credit Agreement). The opening of the account would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a) of the Credit Agreement).
Benefits
55.       The proposed project would raise domestic food production, in-
crease exports, and improve the quality of rural life in the project area.
It would increase annual crop and livestock production by a net value of
US$9 million. The extension service would directly benefit 22,000 of the
33,000 farm families in the project area, or over 200,000 people, whose
present per head incomes of US$3C-83 compare with an estimated absolute
poverty level of US$105 (1979). Farm incomes would increase significantly,
and improved nutrition and better standards of living can be expected.
Incremental annual on-farm employment at full development would be about
7,500 man-years or about 35 days/year for each active adult. The livestock
component would benefit Peul herc smen, as well as the farmers included in
the 22,000 direct agricultural beneficiaries. Through technical assistance
and training, the project would improve the capability of Voltaic nationals
to operate and manage developmenl: projects, and the forestry and anti-erosion
components, though limited, address fundamental problems facing Upper Volta.
The project's impact would also be felt in other sectors of the regional
economy (construction, handicraft, trade) but these effects are difficult to
quantify with confidence and have been ignored in the economic analyses.



- 16 -
Economic Analysis
56.       The project-s overall economic rate of return is estimated to be
23 percent; that of the agricultural component 22 percent and that of
livestock 33 percent.
Risks
57.       There are no unusual technical risks in the agricultural and
livestock programs. The proposed approach has been tested elsewhere by
Bank Group projects in Upper Volta. Perceived risks are: breakdown of the
marketing system due to delays in implementing the road program or lack of
services provided by OFNACER and/or private traders; non-use of inputs because
of price rises or breakdown in the delivery system; speed of farmer response;
and difficulties on the part of the government in meeting its contribution to
project costs. These risks would be minimized through timely implementation
of the proposed fourth highway project; creation of a Supply and Credit
Service and introduction of cost recovery practices to partially offset costs.
Through sensitivity tests on the effect of reduced benefits, the project has
been shown to remain viable under a range of unfavorable conditions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Upper
Volta and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of credit effectiveness are: (a) the opening of the
project Special Account (para. 54); and (b) the Association's acceptance of the
policies and procedures agreed between Government and the CNCA under which
CNCA will grant and administer agricultural credit for the project (para
48).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 7, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX 1
- 17 -                                     Page l of 5
TABLe 3A
UPPER  SLO- 50CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER IOLTA                  RUFEENCE GROUPS (WEIRNTED AVENACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           274.2
AGRICULTURAL    193.7                                MDST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1'170 /b ESTIMIATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOLTH OF SAHRA
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                 50.0        841.0    180.0                228.9                  726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRA4iS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     5.0        11.0      25.0                80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAIION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     4.2         S.9       5.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.7         L.8       8.1                 17.3                   28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATIOS IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       24.0
YEAR STATtONARI POPULATION IS REACHED                2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. El.                      15.0        18.0      20.0                 27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    22.0        26.0      29.0                 82.6                  126.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.2        42.8      44.4                .44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        54.0        !4.4      52.7                 52.2                  51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.8         2.8       2.9                  2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         1.6/c     1.6/c                2.7                    2.7
URBAN                             6.3         5.3       3.9                  6.8                    4-9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0        48.0      48.0                 47.4                   46.8
CRU'DE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0       '4.0      22.0                 19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.2       3.2                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED W0MEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOU PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        101.0       102.0      99.0                 91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  86.0        84.0      79.0                 90.2                   92.7
PROTEINS (GRAliS PER DAY)        66.0        65.0      60.0                 53.0                   53.0
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      18.0        18.0      16.0                 18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        35.0      32.0                 27.7                   21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        40.0      42.0                 45.3                   50.1
INFANI MORIALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         263.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      10.0                 23.2                   31.0
URBAN                              ..          ..      48.0                 58.0                   66.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO E3CRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF FOPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         4.0       4.0                 28.9
URBAN                              ..        49.0      47.0                 67.0
RURAL                              ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        59849.0    84257.0  55765.0                30910.4                14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    4090.0O/    3839.0   1283.0                5793.2                 327S.5
POPULATION PER hOSFITAL BED
TOTAL                          1801.0/d   1518.0   1507.0                 1198.9                 1141.5
U1RBAN                          204.0/d    259.0
RURAL                          1264. Od    2350.0
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..      31.0
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             7.SLe        ..
URBMA                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUSBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLIBlS)
OIrAL                              ..          ..
URSAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of~ 5
UPrLR  OLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A'ERA ES
- MOST PECENT ESTIM.ATE
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTLMATE Jb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EhROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY      TOTAL                   8.0         13.0       16.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  12.0         16.0       20.0                   74.2                    69.2
FEMALE                 3.0          9.0       12.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.5          1.0        2.0                   10.0                    20.6
MALE                   1.0          2.0        3.0                   13.7                    29.2
FEMALE                 0.3          1.0        1.0                    7.1                    14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  21.0           15.0       17.0                    6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             47.0         44.0       48.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           20.0         23.0       20.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADU'LT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          1.Sf       5.0j                             25.5
CONSUNETION
PASSE}GER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          1.0        1.8                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0         16.0       17.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1O e       1.0        1.0                    1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..         0 4        0 3                    4.6                    24 2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                 0.2                                .                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2379.9       2678.5    2978.0
FENALE (PERCENT)                    47.3         46.6       47.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               91.5         86.8       83.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.4          8.5       12.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.7         55.7       54.3                   42.2                     38.8
hALE                                  60.9         59.5       58.4                   55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                                54.5         51.9       50.2                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.8        0.9                    1.2                      1.3
INCO%E DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..                ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..                                                         .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSLHOLDS                     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .           .       164.0                 138.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      105.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                          .                 107.0
RURAL                                               .       53.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .            ..
RURAL                                               .                             66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970J  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recentr stinSce betveen 1974 and 1978. Moat recent estimate of CNP per capita
il for 1979. based on 19i7-79 conversion period (Bank Atlas Hethod).
/c   Due to e-igration population gro.th rate is lower than rate oi natural increase;  /d 1963;  /e 1964;
/f 1962; .Ls 1972.
August, 1980



- 19 -                                                   ANNEXi1
Page 3 of 5
EEFINITIONS it SOCIAL. InSICATORS
"atlcalyopualsbcas  ofI the luck of standordisad de'finitiosedtnet  usdbydIfeet                                  tills  In cllctngth  data.YThe dtets  nne
thls .1usfu  to Aesortbe orders of s           igelude,     tcurors     , sd oh e-otsise certain salon differece-h tb-e  coutries
Th .rfeene ..cy  are .('1)  h  tm  conr ru f the suhjsce country and (2) a.coutry grop nithsoeithgrsesgInmehatecutygop
of the suject couacy (escpt fcc "Cpital Suplus liiEnyocets'  gsug ihere ''Middle Incom  North Africa an  nddle cast  Is chunet heauefstone
autoc .tltuca.ffiht isa).  tcon    efer..nts scop data the sos-ge  are. . ooet   snheed eritatine    for s-1, no   aocad ehon  onlysheost
euthalf of the  oute   nagophsdt  for that tudiator   nicethe  osg  of cutre    og eta indl-atoe  deends on th.  -nilahility of
data and Ia uoi unifom   ustio   muth   nrised to eel-ting  o-rage  of oneindicator to ano ther,  mass a-eruge  arI nyueuli oprn  the talus
ofun  iodi-at   ateties a-on  the coutry aud yfrnesott
Agc~lensl- lilste  f agricultura  ares usd temporarily orprasnl                    eclto  perCrsn  Person  i. roultln   ivdehrume of r-ysotiua
forcrp,  pastures,I sachet and kitchen gardens ur to li  if  ue; 19.7 dare,             sale sad femai  graduat  nre,prat-ical nuss,sd asia_sret
Rssusnis   Recnusita1 end -  -inl urbe. sad cure  - Ppultaion (total.
GNy PRi  CAPIIA (lip) - GNP pet  iaeiiea   toretmrst prne.a-                                chan, and  -unulldivded hy them t p          neeabur of hospital beds
culaed b  eae ceceoit aehde.      tedsn  Atlas (t977-7i basis); i960,               eveilebie In puhit  sad private genra  sa  speis-nptid     em-I 
1971, aud  lN)Odata.                                               ~~~hsbilitstiioctsee.     -ePitals are-         h-alifeei  P.e-atly scttefd
by at leasoa  phsca.  Etetalihfnats Proiding Principally custtdiu1
andligit, ynroeu, oturl  aa  edbyde-,nuestsadstthPma  also                     nest are niper       sty" staffed by A phyincia  (but by a mdital sss t
trIIty  Inhilcraa  f cal  tolalet  er  a pts;196,  9ii  sa  198    nrs, eld.lf. etc.)  bith off a  in-Pa tient  --rdation  ad p-eide 
done.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Iti.i-d ceage nf medical facilitia.  Pe    stsi alpurposes ashe  Psaspi-
POPUIATION A~~~~VVITAL STATISTICS                                    1-1.~sal  isciude fWtes priecipal geneel and  pracialiad heepitala, md rural
TutalPouato H id-Year (mllions) - As of Jlui  1; 19h0, if 70, sad 1918                  admpission  pe .an.   a I Sad"' -h Total nube  of.. adisin -tnior dit.tsg
data,                                                                                    fromll  PI-   1  c.     b.       ..  honpitals divided by tb, ume   f  ae
dif tmedfntinna196  of orb an ara  metyffect temarsility pf data               eeustsl
amon  conties.9.,17.             o   sl aa                                             Avee..e lisa of House.hold Ponesoa   yen     ..neh.ld) - tota l. uban~, andtisl
Populoiot loser  PIS -Cuceet peplasin  pejuties  act based on 196         Ae   ht   irmas h           oarde  er'lede"jsa  hsma  sojeiolodtd i
toa  ppltion by aga an   e d  -tad      mruiysd  tciiyrts                       the P"nasbeid fo a"t.fAiets  purposes.
ing lie saptnontyat bith inrassia  nithcounty'spi   sina i-us=         theofprnaeros.i  all_ucham, nd rurl  rouia terventidnalI
loon.ti,  a   saelf   opcao   ttlosa   75ram    h  pare                               dellg, .   apedtivay   n       ....g..uenn-emaetstutre.n
an   eillr fre1d  fortprertien.urposes                                              of tota-l, nan   n  rur l dc1ings e-eacivy
th   irhrcei .quln  the -deth cane  and1 sienea.5  tuee   c-           onAI
mainst contan.  Thiei  acheve  only after- fsriliy  reinsdclin  50-.                   --fusne   Emelma    atn
tlhe relceety  leve  of- cuir         net h-renoionPae -biaI s Io gen lntien           .. tciae school   ty tonal, sal sd ftlair...     total,  ala ad  female-
odf- nones replace  inef  PIjsotly.Teeaior   eot ponpisseasCatoima...o  all asag atshe pr.imacy I.lani gq am .prcetages ef  -r-sit
it  he  ea  11-  . and   theirat  ofdelin nf  feetility eian  replais-                  yeEM aTIrs  o   da do   ifrn   egh   fpiyeusiu   e
else       P..  tif               . h thas bean catsoted.                              teondy echeni - tonal, sale and fals -  Imp 1sgahveeaedacp:
total,  d1 h,-i ftbpIj,    h-ti.i    ! eth..                                            cautity    f 12 no 11 y tr of. age;lt 1e-s1en anu  cenr       re  eneall
onl.                                                                                   P,ctia enrollea   (carcass o         -11ydrv i-I. tatesiahitdutiod6s1
Prlthot -a Sire   .d tor h(sosc -,   Ctildes  OI-l fearjy a). nicking-ge f 1              includ  nerhial  ieucii   rohe   eg.                 ho  nsaaidp
ltic;16, 19-         ed1 976dat.tpl bashe n-tid -. r dtffc.I and  ecodar  - ptoiny stdentsl fnrl,a i
Porlaie  Gowh tna(r Icec  - htota  - Th.sual gh.w. nt.ti- aftt    i-               rmaya            Isodc - s-i  diie by. stafer  of tchr  is. pI..th
yast pofulaiesdfr... tii196-t, sd  97578.ieeteendnglevls
poputlaciem; iSti  1975, ad  978hdata.                                                                                                   -pmniod,n
Gros iirdtlnRt-vrg   nas   tdohesai sml   a   n                                            mitc   ve icles.d
hoc noem krepredueiY-     ere P-l-iflI she sap kissoa   - easan  hass-apoii  fmr      Raifa-ec   ec  hua   eneic -.I   All type  ef eniveef oeai
tiiicraia; umallyfineyear  veraes ediagits  9kG.  9't,and  977.  trea teens to gll,sr.. ptbi   per1,  th...eand of poplaina elde   ai
P..Sil     lleiaAtetr.d -eua C("thasds) b- fasa  number.. 5f  cofisad                    c...lad       12eiev  in counties sa  is; ym--a      egstai....ads  e
enact o  child-earing  ge (il-A years .she as  bit-cos .nklad-ice  ti       Pt Seus.tives1pet  sase  rrltifen). l-yTh eseV..  ts    edo1            ti
Ios   fPa   rdune   a   aia(99-1l)-ms   fm  capita7a8ua..hied  ty 0dil  general intres  espaer" hdsins  aspaieftoil pub-
prd Giono   i  tn   onine.phocgnal daest.sa   adandlneia  acte  piarlynoreedid ggnrln .I  is ob"unsidari
itontledc  er  ase   Cmteiiscua  pteaysed  (eg.asarte                              u  e   aiyifi  apersanIee tii             r tie       at.  h
nations  .vs1950prduce  price weights  1961-78     , 10p. fed1918 dens
per dspi.  Ava0lale9 suple 78syid sdamsni  pdntha-d strf  lld-                      Tnm lbo P...ctce -  t. ihns ds) l- itpeo    tinal   acie  esos  incldin
quant.tiie   ud  nfndpoesig1adlassi6dsrbiis   tqis-1f9ii7                                           i   atescunre  senn_opral;195.9_                        n
satantsenfaedb  PAP8 bsd n  pyt elgia                                         P.d.fe.tlssi   96  aa
and.  . sdte   . dsiuRiti ofppltin   n   hern   i  eo             eewsee              Ce-nltr fe Pren th,- pakrpfI-sisl famn,-              oetr,hpnn   n
heusehood  evel; 196 -it, iti, anIf7 da.gta,                                    fishingJ.  as"!g percentageo iltotal _. laorfoce  195-97 a   97   aa
neIupl  o  yee   a  da.I  fe   upyo   odi   eie  asp-tg   ahv. 5             adeetric It,  nttaa   e   sprecs   ficllbrfne   90
quirtmen-e for      y all  bnnce  etbihe   yll   peiafa   iiu                          i     nd17   at
sa'Jpnrl   ssnvog   f onnseei,poosd6   sdi  h  Thir.p ..enag                                       . of - i -ni, al  ad  Ismae peplaie  af ilt-e  rseti       vely;.di
sorb  rood Scrosy;iNtl-nt. 1911 ui 1977 date.         1196id, 1910,' adt 1915 data.. theta arm  iL t~ ba.cpne   atsrfat
riedtoe  uial  ad  ulesinsum  pn  ay  16165  11)an   97  dna    fsusi   reTsYyRtio -p Satin .  of peu t.i... fnda  15 and 6 ndoe
Chld(sss1-)  enaltynts(cr hosad)- oas  daca  erthssadin             t   -therted  ak        feces.                          ...   VI....
PALm                                                                       Peeconcase of Pr~~~~~~~d.   f  -Aivte,IYcem  fsh-   in cas   Td hind)   - Raciv ffbycrtse
A .  -percnt, rIchs   'P pecn,  IP.estd   ecn,anreeth   ecn
life tepeotacco  t 51mb (ceera) -Avarags number e  year  of d l fe remaining  ofP.Phousetolde.
at birth; 161, iNli an  19P8 data
Itfaus Certainty Sate (rer iheseand) - Aenual deatha of taf as r  undefon o-e    rgt.¶b. lARilyt  ifours1         f
ofPI erteu  = liv births.          fatlinst-  absolut Pevdr    Ca iteale l i)prona)-rb                                                              dru l-
Acces n  nsfa Cme retrat f roniaiR s -Iaa,ubn  n   oa      .                     Aet    oet  noelvli  that income .level  talnhib     iia
somber o  people  tetal, uban, an   rural -wit    197e0nhie acces7 t  eats.    strinrotna.Idy   i. adeuat  diet p -lu  esnial ae-fn  rqIIIa          s  e
este  suc  na henfro. rtcedhnhla  springs,li..     sa   aiar   al)as             ftmhd -isle-it..vryIta  evluSorint)    ra    drjg
fu tai  or  hadpetlntd  e  mr  thank.N.    i _ -er   f      1 con d a hu desa  be    ptba on  o   h               ty-d    tnlni  sdrve   emit   ua
dosocda  bing .. n Ptbi  resnbeateta.hthos.i.ua  arsas                          lvel sik.adjusment"frthisRnest o  living in                - ura  stat.
reaaonhle acess sald impy thannba husenti  or saers ofthedhesnbei        Radifeated. banlaten.sle  dAtelin   heet   ....msLevl eccnc   uh
do .or.av  no:til' spee    0b..dadsrptine ..Patothdyinfcigtbsdru l- Ps..n  a  ppulnii   ur1m u_rual  ab  ae  shtlta e.                                               i
rurl-     tiube  o  pepl  (natal  cea   ed  rua)  ave   tasacets.1-
diepeds-el         191-5  P970 en per977cagestof gbai   cespotiv.peulan fas    S sesa tis                           t-en-mir end Racial..eats t Sivftsia
p0.1say.. includ  the cueoten sod  disp -aP, nlet-1tatteo   irPtme-t  t- aumi f ealymIs  n   riei_eSpren
of human aecotta end eaie..wsnar tywetac- torn  ep _t_s    t sh  oe - ofI.ig.    I..  ..ft 1l.IfI.                                       -i&
pit privesan  simla  Istal andn                                                                                                 August,96,  97      1980dl



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA- CNP PER CAPITA
IN 1979 us$180
GROSS NATIONAL PRODI'CT TN 1978
L'S$ MILLION            x
GNP at Market Prices                                  906.4              100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                             215.5               23.8
Gross National Savings                                 32.3                3.6
Current Account Balance                               183.2               20.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                                 123.6               13.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                                 356.8               39.4
OUTPUT AIM ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE POPUILATION IN 1977
Value Added         Economically Active Populatio-
US$ million    Z            ('00n) _
Agriculture                                           243.2      4'2.5          2472       83.0
Industry                                              107.4      17.9            357       12.0
Services                                              250.2      41.6            149        5.0
Total                                                 600.8    100.0            2972     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
CFAF billion                  Z of GDP
1977         1978 x         1977       l978x
Budget Revenues                                    28.6         31.2           17.0       16.7
Budget Expenditures                               -26.5        -30.1          -15.8      -16.1
Budget Surplus or Deficit                           2.1          1.1            1.2        0.6
Net Treasury Operations                           -6.0          -2.9           -3.6       -1.6
Overall Balance                                   -3.9          -1.8           -2.4       -1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        197L    1975       1976      1977      1978
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                           17.53   24.32    31.4        35.58    42.52
Bank credit to Public Sector                    -9.27   -4.90    -6.95    -7.74    -3.29
Bank credit to Private Sector                   15.38   21.59    32.41    45.75    54.81
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX N0kTERS
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                15.3    19.2      22.7      21.2      22.8
Low-income Price Index (1958   100)            182.4   219.2    186.9    265.8    286.9
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                      20.2    -14.7       62.2       7.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             47.2    -41.8    -11.3        57.5
Bank credit to Private Sector                            40.4      50.1      41.2      19.8
x/ irov,s'cnal  -   ..J'!ct a'aLin1l3       -  .   not applicable
August 1980



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Pap,e 5 Of 5
COUNTRY DATE - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYNENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(In millions of current USS)
BATANCE OF PAYMENTS              1976    1977w   1978    R!E?CHANDTSE EXPORTS
Exports of Goods, NFS            97.1    104.9   123.6
Imports of Gcods, NFS           249.0    292.7   356.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -151.9   -187.8  -233.2   (Average of 1974 - 77)
X
Workers' Remittances (net)        48.6     54.7    67.7   Livestock         14.5       31.0
Other Factor Payments (net)        1.9    -14.7    -9.1   Cotton            14.8       31.6
Net Transfers                     -1.4     -5.7    -8.6   Oilseeds          12.5       26.7
Balance on Current Accounts   -102.8   -153.5  -183.2   all other            5.0       10.7
total            46.8     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment (net)  2.5        6.9    13.2   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECMBER 31 1978
Official Capital Grants           71.2     77.6   100.0
Net MLT Borrowings                14.5     38.8    36.4   Public Debt, incl.
guarauteed         337.3
Disbursements                    (15.3)   (40.0)  (38.2)  Non-guaranteed Private
Repayment                        (*0.8)   (-1.2)  (-1.8)          Debt
Total outstanding and
Other items 1/                    10.3     20.8    -2.3            disbursed          190.7
Change in Reserves (increase-)   4.3        9.4    35.9
Fuel and related materials                                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/  2/
Imports, c.i.f.                                   Public Debt incl.
guaranteed
of which: Petroleum      11.0      18.0    29.1   Non-guaranteed private
Exports                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~debt
ExXports                                          Total outstanding and
of which: Petroleum       -         -       -             disbursed            6.2
IBRD/IDA LENDING December 1979
Outstanding and
Disbursed               65.4
Undisbursed                43.4
Outstanding inc1.
Rate of Exchange                                              undisbursed             108.8
1971:   US$1.00   CFAF 277.03
1972:   US$1.00 - CEAF 252.21
1973:   US¢1.00 - CFAF 222.70
1974:   USS1.00 - CFAF 240.50
1975:   US$1.00   CFAF 2'4.32
1976:   US31.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 _ CFAF 245.00
197e:   US$1.00 - CFAF 220.00
It   Including errors and omlssions      2/  ratio of Debt Service to Exports et Gc.ds and nor.
x    preliminary   -    ..  not available   factor services.
not epplicabl-
August 1980



- 22 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1980)
(US$ million)/a
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower          Purpose             IDA     Undisbursed
Ten Credits fully disbursed                             50.7            -
557-UV    1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-        6.0           2.24
Upper Volta   ment Project
579-UV    1975   Republic of   Rural Roads               7.5          2.49
Upper Volta
640-UV    1976   Republic of   Rural Development         9.4           2.19
Upper Volta   Fund II
706-UV    1977   Republic of   West Volta Agricul-    3.6             0.63
Upper Volta   tural Development
744-UV    1977   Republic of   Railway                   5.2          2.97
Upper Volta
759-UV    1977   Republic of   Small & Medium            4.0          2.85
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-UV    1978   Republic of   Urban Development         8.2           6.36
Upper Volta
956-UV    1979   Republic of   Education II             14.0          13.40
Upper Volta
982-UV    1980   Republic of   Forestry                 14.5         14.50
Upper Volta
1013-UV   1980   Republic of   Niena Dionkele Rice    6.5             6.50
Upper Volta   Development
TOTAL                                            129.6          54.13
of which has been repaid                        0.10
TOTAL now held by IDA /a                        129.60
TOTAL undisbursed                                              54.13
/a   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million.



- 23 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (aLS of November 30, 1980).
Amount in US$ millions
Year    Obligator      Type Business      Loan      Equity           Total
1978    Sovoplas          Plast:ic         .41       .13              .54
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 496:    Bougouriba Agricultu:al Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date; June 30, 1981
EEC Special
Action
Credit 50:     US$1.5 Million Equivalent; Credit of February 8, 1980;
Effective Date: July 30, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project aims to develDp the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD. Implementation of the livestock and infrastructure (wells,
roads, buildings) components has been successful, with appraisal targets
achieved for the most part, although with some delays and cost overruns. In
its fifth year (1979/80), the project achieved incremental production of
2,700 tons of cotton (145 percent above 1976/77), 3,600 tons of cereals, 270
tons of groundnuts, 60 tons of paddy, and 160 tons of meat. The rate of
return is estimated to be 15 percent compared with the appraisal estimate of
68 percent, now seen to be overly optimistic. Credit 496-UV is fully
disbursed, and interim financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action
Credit.
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development, improvement of veteri-
nary services, livestock marketing and meat processing facilities and the
provision of technical assistance. The first ranch was completed at the end
of 1979, and the second and third ranches are progressing satisfactorily.
Inscription of cattle has accelerated now that tsetse infestation has been
temporarily brought under control. Despite the reprieve, a longer term
program for tsetse control should be initiated. It had been foreseen that
livestock owners take management control of the ranches at advanced stages,
however at recent discussions with owners, continuation of assistance was
requested.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the pro-
gress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be cead in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purzort to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses iLa project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.  US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13,
1975; Effective Date:  February 11, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project will improve and subsequently maintain 1,200 km of
rural roads. Maintenance will also be provided for 2,100 km of additional
rural roads, institutional support is given to the road organization,
highway equipment has been procured, and a study will be carried out to
assess the impact and effectiveness of road components included in agricul-
tural development projects financed by the Association over the last five
years. Despite an eighteen month delay in project start-up, the rate of
project implementation now matches appraisal estimates: one third of the
improvement program has been completed and annual light maintenance corres-
ponds to appraisal targets. Bridge and culvert construction will be carried
out by force account due to lack of satisfactory response from local contrac-
tors. Activities of the first phase would be continued under the proposed
fourth highways project.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund for investment in small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which
is to increase crop production and improve village water supplies. The
investment program includes: bottomland development (2,700 ha); erosion
control works (9,200 ha); small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland
development (500 ha); construction of 520 wells, 180 tubewells, 400 village
warehouses and 20 village centers; provision of medium-term credit for
agricultural equipment and unidentified projects. The project is well
managed and is making good progress in implementing its components. Not all
appraisal targets may be reached, however, because Government priorities and
farmers' expectations have led project management to put more emphasis on
well construction and erosion control works and less on bottomland develop-
ment and small irrigation projects. To allow RDF to maintain its present
rate of activities until the proposed third phase project is approved, the
Government has obtained additional funds from the Netherlands.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 706 and  West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 Million
706-S            (IDA) and Can$3.0 Million (Canada) Credits of May 23, 1977;
Effective Date: December 28, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
EEC Special      US$3.0 Million Equivalent (EEC); Credit of February 8, 1980;
Action           Effective Date: September 3, 1980, Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Credit 49
The project strengthens the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou
through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establishes a
Financial and Administrative Unil: to assist project accounting and financial
control; finances a ginnery and 1:raining facilities for project extension
workers; supports an annual extension program; develops low cost irrigation
schemes; implements a pilot settLement component and a pilot women s component.
Aided by favorable weather, incremental cotton production in 1979/80 (19000
tons) was double the appraisal estimate. Cereal production is difficult to
assess with accuracy; means of inproving monitoring of cereal output are
being discussed. The extension service, which is adopting the training and
visit approach, is improving in efficiency. The low cost irrigation schemes
and women-s activities have fared poorly so far, and no action has been
taken on the pilot settlement project. The Financial and Administrative
Unit has established project accounts and updated cost statements and
budgets aimed at keeping future project expenditures in line with available
funds.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Ciedit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 197E;; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
the Regie Abidjan-Niger (RAN) 1977-1982 investment plan. It includes track
alignment and renewal of track riaterial in the Ivory Coast; track improvement
in Upper Volta; procurement of 'Locomotives; freight cars and track maintenance
equipment, provision of training facilities and consulting services for
technical training and management improvement and to carry out feasibility
studies. Major civil works are expected to be completed by end September
1981.  All other physical components are being implemented but have experienced
delays due to administrative pr3blems. Late contract awards have caused slow
execution of sleeper renewal and embankment construction. Ballast production
is also behind schedule. Some progress has, however, been noted with recent
improvements to RAN performance and services giving rise to increased freight
traffic. An Organization and Methods Unit will soon be operable to devise
transport plans for freight traffic and passenger traffic. Cost overruns of
about 20 percent are envisaged with RAN to cover the shortfall from its own
resources.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
Million of January 12, 1978; Effective Date:  April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center
for the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the
Promotion of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the
BND; a study on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Depart-
ment of External Debt at the Treasury. Though technical assistance financed
by the IDA credit has had little impact on the long-term evolution of BND as
a financially sound institution, a commitment to devise a list of projects
which would effectively use IDA funds has been demonstrated. Additional
assistance to the BND may be forthcoming through German aid. OPEV and CNPAR
activities are progressing satisfactorily and funds allocated to them will
likely be used within eighteen months.
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; preparation and servicing of 1,100 lots in
Bobo-Dioulasso; water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families in
Ouagadougou who are not living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction
and improvement loans; community facilities, social services and technical
assistance to the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Department of town planning. Project start-up activities were financed
under two Project Preparation Facility advances and the budget of the Ministry
of Public works. Surveys and detailed engineering proceeded very slowly due
in part to the Ministry of Public Works tendency to shift away from previously
agreed upon design standards.  An agreement was reached at end 1979:   a) to
proceed on a pilot basis with the upgrading in the Cissin neighborhood with
particular attention being paid to affordable standards, minimizing demolition
and relocation, and community participation and b) to hire a municipal engi-
neer as Deputy Project Director. Community consultation in the area began in
March 1980. The project has been slow to attain the hoped for momentum and
should still receive close supervision.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 956:   Second Education Project.  US$14.0 Million
Credit of November 15, 1979; Effective Date:
July 30, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
An extension of the First Education Project, the project would
expand the rural education systeni to youth who formerly had no access to
primary education through expansi.on, repair and equipping of physical
facilities, and training and management support. It would also provide
training for three categories of workers presently in short supply in Upper
Volta; agriculture project managers, building construction foremen, and road
and equipment maintenance personnel. Despite a six month delay in credit
effectiveness, some initial implementation activities have been carried out
through an advance from the Project Preparation Facility. The project has
had difficulties in organizing coordination among the Government agencies
involved. It is fairly complex, hlaving thirteen components and requiring
close cooperation of seven different agencies. Close supervision of the
administrative aspects will be required.
Credit 982:    Forestry Project.  US$14.5 Million Credit of April 7, 1980.
Effective Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1984.
The project provides a comprehensive program to strengthen the
operational capacity of the Forestry Administration with staff and equip-
ment to carry out its assigned functions of protecting, developing and
exploiting the country's forest resources within the framework of the
national forestry plan. The project will also establish 1,600 ha of rain-
fed tree plantations and 325 ha of rural woodlots in the Bobo-Dioulasso
area, manage on a pilot basis 1,000 ha of natural forest in the Maro-
reserve and maintain previously established rainfed tree plantations.
A Project Preparation Facility advance financed preliminary works begun
in 1979, including a pedological study and aerial survey of the Maro
reserves and plantation maintenance and protection works.
Credit 1013:   Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project.  US$6.5 Million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Effective Date: December 4, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is a pilol: phase of a possible three phase program to
convert swampland to more productive use. The main objectives of this phase
would be to test key assumptions regarding future development of swamp areas
and to address price structure, marketing and economic issues of the rice
subsector. The project will also assist Government to promote institution
building in the subsector, definie a national rice policy, create a market
structure to ensure farmer confidence in rice production and train future
rice industry managers. Full scale project start-up is expected to be under-
way soon; minor activities were financed by the Project Preparation Facility.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification mission - October 1977.
(b) Project Preparation Agency: Government/Agrar and Hydrotechnik/RMWA
(c) Appraisal Mission: February/March 1980
(d) Post-Appraisal Mission: May 1980
(e) Negotiations: November 3-7, 1980
(f) Target Effectiveness: May 1981
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) A margin on the unsubsidized cost of supplies would be progres-
sively introduced so that by year 5 of the project, the Supply and
Credit Service would be self-financing (para 37);
(b) Government would undertake the necessary road programs in the
Bougouriba area and the relevant road services would consult the
ORD each year when planning their work programs (para 43);
(c) Terms and rates for agricultural short and medium term credit
would be applied as detailed in paras 47 and 48;
(d) The subsidy on cotton and cereal fertilizer would be gradually
decreased beginning in year 2 of the project with a reduction of
the subsidy by 7 percent of the unsubsidized price of fertilizer
and attaining by the year of project completion a reduction in the
subsidy by 50 percent of the subsidy of year 5 (para. 50); and
(e) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) that Government submit for the Association-s approval
detailed policies and procedures agreed to between Government
and the CNCA under which the CNCA will grant and administer
agricultural credit for the project (para 48); and
(ii) that the Special Account is opened (para 54).



IBRD 15127R
UPPER VOLTA                                                                                NOVEMBER 1980
HAUTE- VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECOND PROJUT DE DEVELOPPEMEF\T AGRICOL'E DE A BOUGOUR/BA
900
Proposed veterinary posts
Posfes v4terinalres proposes                                                                            ""p"
Existing veterinary posts
A  Postes ve6rinoires existerits                                          FO  NZAN        Kouloho
Tree nurseries                                                                                      Gorere
Pepinieres                                                                                    Koti
Isohyets in millimeters                                                 /Diandgr m
0sohyeles en mIll/metres                                  0                        POULABAayo
ORD headquarters
Chef-_leu del'ORD                                                          ser                     So,ko
*  Sector offices                                                                   Ccro
Chef-lieu de secteur\
Sub-sector offices                                             /                                            e
Chef-lieu de sous-secteur
Supply and credit centers                                jlnhedou    \            U
Centres opprovis/onnement el credit                                                                              KOPE   
ORD boundaries                                         0GR°                                                      Ko/te
Limife de ORD                                           Zanooua         ,           \r=
Sector boundaries                                                  DIEBOUG                    ilbal
Llmite desecteur            To,' v                                    4,                   ;        - ,StN
National roads                                   f -A |                              Dlipol
Routes nGt ona/es                                                                                         u<o              T N )
Secondary roads by year 5 of project                                                                       v /00
Routes secondoires en ennete cinq du proyet  \
Rlvers j / \ g <, ~~~~~~~~~~ZAMBO 
Rivers
Ri* P,vieres                              *-  t                   tI    OURA
International boundaries                                    IRONIORO
Frontieres internationoles                'D,as ara
Oo<  Tirk,roC .r.     NK 
OLIROUM-                                      G   t    H  A   N   A
KILOMETERS 0     io      20      30      40      50
MILES 0          10          20           30       *Yr         /\
Ae          /,     4 Tikea         gui lto
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -,_3.                                    i7oben          SER
0 oossc   10ker 
t Lokossc   LOROPENIX   ~~PERIGBAN                        BO       A t - _ i  i
I.                      Gbanga                        Doobdo
GbangboukorsI
f              PienaOlnokope     pI11g     PollsE
1200      ,*|
i_ / \ > / \' AX I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dan k,,a
igoueo
Psserse
Kosso             *O BATI                1200
.S]  _   <  L           ,               ,  , re.anaSo                    >tou~~~~~~~~~~-sskoul. 5 1m 
uaf or             r
I V O R Y  COArST
f( A                                             t r of h N I  G e R  CO TD fIVOIRE
UPPER  VOLTA                                            '.'
.     .>t   A-,HAUTE  VOLTA
.  E    rt   §  \   9       rJ          r    ~~~~Wssfir8ookiesAdffexef,  JPR. 
the em _t no wwaft .  its atee hde
.e~~ ~~~ ~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,  -ss6~ te. a§  fn ewft#d",
'*;,,sIZogedPro/</o G H   ev                             wwf,       asNiN  ff*s g                                                         1
*GN     A      0or. aI                             i Mrb_acueof sum  , 1rt
tVO&Y COAS                                         100000,  Osy~  ,wWr



