Document of
The World Bank                  FILE  r
FOR OFFICIAIl USE ONLY
Report No. 3126-UV
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 15, 1980
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division 4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1            =       US$1.29  =  CFAF 271
US$1.00          =       SDR 0.75 =  CFAF 210
CFAF 1,000       =       US$4.76  =  SDR 3.69
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEARS
Government              January 1-December 31
Project/ORD             April 1-March 31
IDA                     July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AAVV      Volta Valleys Development Authority
BCEAO     Central Bank of West African States
CERCI     Irrigated Crops Study and Research Center
CNCA      National Agricultural Credit Bank
ICRISAT   International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-
Arid Tropics
IRAT      Tropical Agriculture and Foodcrops Research Institute
IRCT      Cotton and Textiles Research Institute
IRHO      Oils and Oilseeds Research Institute
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER   National Cereals Agency
ORD       Regional Development Organization
PY        Project Year
SOFITEX   Voltaic Textile Fibre Company (Parastatal)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      The Rural Sector ..................... ............            1
Agricultural Sector   ,       ..................               1
Sector Strategy and Issues ....................               2
Principal Agricultural Institutions        .     .            4
II.  The Project Area.                                                  6
Location and General Characteristics.                         6
Land Features and Climate .                 .                 7
Roads .....................................                   7
Farming Systes..                      .                       8
Power, Water Supply, Education and Health
Services ...........  8
The First Project.                                            9
III.       The Project ....................................             il
General .il
Summary Description .il
Detailed Features .13
Cost Estimates .16
Proposed Financing .16
Procurement ...........                                      17
Disbursements .                                              18
Accounts, Audits and Reports .19
IV.        Project Implementation and Executing Agencies                19
Project Organization    .               .                    19
Farner Participation    .               .19
Staffing   . .20
Extension and Training   .               .21
Supplies and Credit          ................ -    24
Livestock Service   .                 .26
Forestry            .......................    26
Monitoring and Evaluation   .              .26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Notley, Ameur, de Wit, and Ms. Mikitin (IDA); and Messrs. Argoullon,
Finnegan and Tacher (Consultants), which visited Upper Volta in February-March
1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
theiJ officia) duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
V.     Production Specifications .....      ....................    26
Agricultural Practices.             . . ...........    26
Cereals and Legumes  ......     ........................    27
Other Crops ...............         ............  ...........    29
Crop Recommendations ...... ..         . ...................    31
Livestock .... .                  ...................-32
VI.     Markets, Prices, Financial Analysis and
Cost Recovery        .....................................    32
Markets and Prices ..................................    32
Farm Incomes        ......................................    34
Financial Implications for Government  .............    34
VII.     Benefits and Justification        .......................    35
Project Benefits ......... .........................    35
Economic Rate of Return .....      ......................    36
Risks and Sensitivity        ............................    37
VIII.     Agreements Reached and Recommendation ...........    ..    38
Annexes
1.  Project costs
2.  Estimated IDA disbursements
3.  Organization chart
4.  Staffing
5.  Production
6.  Crop returns
7.  Farm budgets
8.  Government cash f low
9.  Economic analysis
10.  List of working papers
Map
IBRD 15127R:  The Project Area



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE RURAL SECTOR
1.01      Upper Volta has an area of 274,000 km2 and a population of 5.7
million (1979) growing at an annual rate of 1.6%, with urban population
growth estimated at 4%. While average population density is 20/km2,
it rises to 80/km2 in parts of the central plateau, where over half of
the population lives. The urban population represents somae 8%; the main
towns are Ouagadougou, the capital (225,000), and Bobo-Dioulasso (135,000).
Per capita GNP was US$180 in 1979, which puts Upper Volta among the 25
poorest countries of the world. The proposed project would be located in the
agriculturally favorable southwest, in an area with a population density of
22/km2, but per head incomes significantly lower than the national average.
The Agricultural Sector
1.02      The agricultural sector is the dominant sector of the economy, pro-
viding a livelihood for over 80% of the population and producing 40% of
CDP and nearly all exports, with cotton and livestock leading the list.
Practically all agriculture is rainfed. Crop farming, under shifting
cultivation, produces 25-30% of GDP and 60% of recorded exports. Live-
stock contributes 10% to GDP and 30% to exports. About 8% of the land, or
2.2 million ha, is cultivated each year. The basic food crops, sorghum,
millet and maize, account for 85% of the cultivated area and 80% of pro-
duction value. Cotton, groundnuts, sesame, rice, and vegetables account
for most of the remaining cultivated area and production value.
1.03      Although the country is relatively flat, there are pronounced
regional differences in climate and soils. The climate changes gradually
from Sahelian in the north, with average rainfall of 600 mm, to Savannah
in the south, with average rainfall of 1,200 mm. The low and erratic
rainfall in the north results in unreliable harvests and greater reliance
on livestock for survival, and consequently low population densities.
There is also a striking contrast between the central plateau and the
western and southwestern regions. On the plateau, crop farming is at the
subsistence level because of population pressure, over-exploited soils
and unreliable rainfall, whereas in the west and southwest soil and rainfall
conditions are more favorable, population density is lower, and production
more market-oriented. The Sahelian droughts of the early 1970s emphasized
these differences: in the north and center, they virtually eliminated cotton
production and reduced grain production by as much as 35%; in the west and
southwest, they affected production much less severely.
1.04      Cotton is the most important cash crop and a major export.  Pro-
duction began in the early 1950s and had reached some 36,000 tons in 1969/70.
During the following drought years, production stagnated at around 30,000
tons annually, but has since increased, «ith favorable weather in 1979 con-
tributing to a record output of 78,000 tons. Over 80% of this cotton was
produced in the western regions.



- 2 -
1.05      The livestock subsector. while of great importance to the economy,
faces serious constraints, mainly due to overgrazing, insufficient watering
facilities and the growing competition of foodcrops and the tsetse challenge
in the south. The forestry subsector, which provides firewood, building
poles, fodder and a range of food and medicinal products, is threatened
by the reduction of the vegetative cover due to agricultural encroachment,
overgrazing and bushfires, shifting cultivation, and uncontrolled settle-
ment of migrants from the north. The foodcrop subsector also faces con-
siderable problems. Upper Volta has become a substantial importer of
grain; food-aid imports amounted to 65,000 tons in 1979.  Self-sufficiency
in grain production is achievable in years of adequate rainfall although
marketing problems may inhibit the transfer of grain from surplus to deficit
areas. But, given the almost total reliance on rainfed cultivation, trying
to reach this goal in poor seasons as well poses difficult technical problems.
Sector Strategy and Issues
1.06      Government strategy for the rural sector gives priority to (a)
developing rainfed agriculture by promoting improved farm practices and
integrating cropping and livestock activities; (b) stepping up migration from
the densely populated and relatively infertile north central plateau to areas
in the west and southwest which have lower population densities and better
agricultural potential; and (c) gradually expanding swampland and irrigated
agriculture, thus helping to protect the nation against the impact of major
drought; and (d) ensuring national self-sufficiency in foodcrops in line with
this strategy.
1.07      These priorities are overlapping to a considerable degree, and
are being pursued by a variety of projects. On the central plateau, it is
intended to improve farming by a balanced effort of crop development and
adaptive research, as would be done under the Koudougou Agricultural Develop-
ment Project, scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors in
FY81. Migration from the north will continue to call for greater use of
farm land in the south, including swamps, as would be tested under the Niena
Dionkele Rice Development Project. This kind of development would also
improve the security of food supplies and reduce rice imports. In the
Bougouriba area, primary attention would be given to improving rainfed
agricultural practices and initiating a role for livestock in the farming
cycle.
1.08      With half of the present rice demand being met by imports, the
Government is also interested in considering irrigation schemes. Technical
studies are underway (Black Volta, Sourou river systems). Future policy
decisions on such matters as cropping alternatives, food self-sufficiency, and
drought protection may involve careful analysis of price relationships and
economic trade-offs.  It is therefore important that a maximum of factual
information be made available to the Government, which is one of the goals of
the Niena Dionkele project (Credit 1013-UV). The Bank is also engaged in
sector work on the above matters in order to arrive at a better understanding
of these subjects.



- 3 -
1 09      Bank Group lending policy toward Upper Volta is in line with
a 1977 Presidential Decree which established rural development as a priority
sector. Three agricultural development projects have been successfully
completed (para. 1.10). There are also four ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural
projects. the Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Credit 496-UV for
US$8.0 million, and Special Action Credit 50-UV for US$1.5 million equivalent);
the West Volta Agricultural Development Project (Credit 706-UV for US$3.6
million, Credit 706-5-UV for Can. $3.0 million, and Special Action Credit
49-UV for US$3.0 million equivalent), and the Livestock Development Project
(Credit 557-UV for US$6.0 million), all of which are located in southwestern
Upper Volta, and the Second Rural Development Fund Project (Credit 640-UV for
US$9.4 million), largely concentrating on the central plateau in the north. A
Forestry Project (Credit 982-UV for US$14.5 million) was approved by the
Executive Directors on February 12, 1980, and the Niena Dionkele Rice Develop-
ment Project (Credit 1013-UV for US$6.5 million) on April 29, 1980,
1l10      The three completed agricultural development projects represent
the first phase of Bank Group involvement in the rural sector. The comple-
tion report on the Cotton Project (Credit 225-UV, approved in 1970) noted
that substantial improvements in farming practices had occurred and that,
as a lesson of experience, the follow-up project (Credit 706-UV) is based
on an integrated rather than a single-crop approach. The rate of return,
37%, exceeds the appraisal estimate of 31% largely because of higher than
expected cotton prices. As the appraisal report had pointed out, such a
high rate was possible because the project could build on earlier Govern-
ment and French-financed operations. The Rural Development Fund (RDF) Project
(Credit 317-UV) was started in 1972 and the Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR) confirmed that the project had been successful in implementing a
variety of scattered subprojects including wells, village storage facilities,
bottomland development, anti-erosion measures, small irrigation schemes
and feeder roads. The rate of return was re-estimated to be 19% compared with
an appraisal estimate of 16%. The Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit 442-UV,
approved in 1973), using the RDF organization, successfully developed clean
water supplies for 105 villages and built grain storage facilities and feeder
roads. The PPAR noted that the project-s components had already been intro-
duced under the RDF project and that its main contribution was to put the RDF
organization to a test by giving it additional responsibilities, which it
carried out satisfactorily. No rate of return was calculated for this project.
As a general conclusion, it has been noted that the problem remains of the
Government having insufficient financial resources to readily maintain serv-
ices established under a project after the implementation period has ended.
This problem relative to the Bougouriba region is discussed in Chapter III.
1.11      The Second RDF and West Volta Agricultural Development projects have
been making good progress, and the first Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project, after a slow start, has also achieved satisfactory results, discussed
further in Chapter II. The Livestock Development Project aims to improve animal
health, to establish ranches for pastoralists, and to improve stock routes, and
marketing and processing facilities. The animal health part has gone well but,
the number of ranches to be established has been cut from nine to three and
Credit 557-UV reduced by US$3 million, from US$9 million to US$6 million.



- 4-
Principal Agricultural Institutions
1.12      The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) has as its executive
head a Secretary-General who has under him planning, organization and
national agricultural and livestock support services including research.
Several parastatals come under the responsibility of MRD. There are Il
Regional Development Organizations (ORDs), which cover the entire country
except for the lands adjacent to the three Volta rivers, which are largely
depopulated because of riverblindness and are administered by the autonomous
Volta Valleys Development Authority (AAVV). ORDs are public agencies which
are supervised by Boards of Directors representing the local administration
and population. The ORD Directors report to the Secretary-General, MRD.
The ORDs have a large degree of autonomy and carry out a wide range of
activities, such as extension services, the execution of small rural works,
women s activities, cooperatives and community development, and economic
analysis and planning. They rely on central public services for certain
technical activities, such as construction of feeder roads, buildings, wells
and irrigation works.
1.13      Agricultural Research.  A number of research institutions are
responsible to MRD or to the Ministry of Higher Education.   For cotton, the
main agency is the Cotton and Textiles Research Institute (IRCT), and for
cereals the Tropical Agriculture and Foodcrops Research Institute (IRAT).
The Irrigated Crops Study and Research Center (CERCI) conducts work on
irrigated crops, particularly rice. CERCI is financed by and receives
technical assistance from UNDP/ FAO; the other two institutions are funded
by France. Sorghum and millet breeding and agronomy are pursued by a
regional team of the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-
Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) carrying out both on- and off- station trials and an
associated farm systems study on the central plateau. The development of
improved cereals (millet, sorghum, maize) and food legumes (cowpeas, ground-
nuts), and cultural practices compatible with small farms in semi-arid areas
is the purpose of the Semi-Arid Food Grain Research Development program
financed by USAID under the auspices of the Scientific, Technical and
Research Committee of the Organization for African Unity. The new programs
are centered on the rehabilitated Kamboinse research station near Ouagadougou.
Staff to support the program are provided by the International Institute of
Tropical Agriculture, Nigeria; the International Crops Research Institute
for the Semi-Arid Tropics, India; Purdue University, USA; and IRAT.
1.14      Agricultural credit mechanisms are in a state of change.  A
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) was established on August 21, 1980,
with a subscribed capital of CFAF 1,300 million (US$6.2 million) held 54% by
Government or official Voltaic institutions, and 46% by the Central Bank of                  4
West African States (BCEAO), the French Caisse Centrale (Economic Cooperation
Bank -- CCCE), and the West African Development Bank.  Initial paid-up
capital is CFAF 650 million (US$3.1 million). In April 1980 BCEAO announced
major policy changes increasing interest rates and decreasing the rediscount-
ing facilities that will be available to CNCA. Government intends that CNCA
will concentrate upon management and control of funds, and training; the
day-to-day credit operations will continue to be administered by the ORDs.



1.15      Forestry related activities are carried out by the Directorate of
Forestry Management and Reforestation in the Ministry of Environment and
Tourism. This directorate will receive technical and material assistance
under the Forestry Project (Credit 982-UV).
1.16      Cereals are marketed by two parastatals and by private traders.
The National Cereals Agency (OFNACER) under MDR completed its first year of
substantial local purchases in 1979. OFNACER buys white and red sorghum,
millet, maize, rice and cowpeas. It is endeavoring, by direct purchases
and purchases through licensed traders, to ensure that farmers receive the
official prices for cereals (uniform throughout the country for each product)
and, through its wholesale and retail outlets, to make the official consumer
prices effective at retail level. It is also charged with managing stocks of
cereals provided by foreign aid. So far, OFNACER has not been able to meet
its targets of local purchases and its grain sales have consisted mainly of
food aid. It is understood that at present the organization is running at a
loss, and that the Government intends to continue to meet operating deficits.
The Voltaic Marketing Company (SOVOLCOM) under the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry is 97% government-owned and functions profitably. It buys locally,
imports and retails a variety of goods, including agricultural produce. Its
main markets are Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. There are also a large
number of private traders who operate around the main consumption centers.
High transportation costs, coupled with the fact that Government sales of food
aid keep a lid on urban grain prices, hinder the offering of attractive prices
to farmers in more remote areas. For the same reasons, OFNACER cannot buy and
sell at uniform prices throughout the country unless it continues to receive
food aid and budgetary subsidies to cover operating losses.
1.17      Cotton marketing and ginning are undertaken by a well-function-
ing organization jointly owned by the Government and the French Textile Fibre
Development Company (CFDT), which was recently transformed from a partnership
into the Voltaic Textile Fibre Company (SOFITEX). In the past, sizeable cash
surpluses from cotton operations were used to finance input subsidies and ORD
activities. A cotton development fund established under the first project to
channel funds from cotton to rural development will be continued under the
second project (Section 3.08 of Credit Agreement). Its form will be reviewed
during ongoing sector work. As falling export prices in the last two years
reduced surpluses on cotton operations, the financing of input subsidies
especîally on crops other than cotton poses major problems which must be
tackled promptly. Continued provision for annual consultations on these
matters is provided for by Section 3.09 of the Credit Agreement and a dialogue
based on current sector work is underway. IBRD forecasts improving cotton
prices through 1990, and cotton can thus be expected to continue to play a key
role in the economy, though not necessarily as a major source of Government
revenue.
1.18      Seed Production.  The responsibility for seed production rests with
the Directorate of Agricultural Services (DSA) within MRD and services consist
of assessing the quantities required by the ORDs, organizing the production at
multiplication centers, distributing, and certifying seed. DSA has not been



able to fully discharge these responsibilities. IRAT, CERCI, and IRHO
are responsible for producing foundation seed of cereals and groundnuts, and
the IITA grain legume team at Kamboinse is advising on the multiplication of
cowpeas. Seed is multiplied by four of the ORDs on their own farms, and
elsewhere by seed farmers. Seed production is well below the estimated
national needs of about 5,000 tons for a number of organizational reasons,
including pricing policy, extension attention, and adequate liaison with
research. Research results demonstrate the advantage of new over local
varieties in terms of yield, season length and drought resistance, given
proper husbandry practices but not otherwise. Only recently have serious
attempts been made to monitor farmers' acceptance of new varieties in terms of
palatability. A USAID-sponsored national seed production program has had
problems over the non-acceptance of improved seed and the non-payment for seed
by the ORDs. Even following the drought years the uptake of new seed was slow
(except for rice and groundnuts). Under the project relatively modest in-
creases in improved seeds are forecast, which will be multiplied at ORD level
(para 4.11).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and General Characteristics
2.01      The project area is identical with the assigned territory of the
Bougouriba ORD, in the southwest of Upper Volta, between latitudes 9025'
and 110357N and longitudes 2040 and 30557E. It is bordered by Ghana
to the east, Ivory Coast to the south, and by the ORDs of West-Center,
Hauts-Bassins and Comoe. The ORD has an area of 17,500 km2 and a total
population of 390,000 of which 85% (33,000 family units) are engaged in
agriculture. Population density averages 22/km2. There are two admini-
strative districts based in the two main towns of Diebougou and Gaoua. The
first Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Credit 496-UV and Special
Action Credit 50-UV) provided for the development of the area with programs
for cotton and foodcrop development; animal health; well construction;
feeder road improvements; agricultural credit; staff training and applied
research. The results of this project are discussed in paragraphs 2.14 to
2.17.
2.02      The main population groups are the Dagari, predominant in the
Diebougou area, the Lobi around Gaoua, and the Birifor. These three groups,
in contrast to most others in Upper Volta, do not have traditional chiefs and
thus a standardized culture. The Lobi in particular have until recently been
isolated from the rest of the country and modern developments, and initially
responded cautiously to the programs of the first project. However, appraisal
mission sociological investigations indicate they are open to change, as
evidenced by the reaction of Lobi people in neighboring Ivory Coast and Ghana
to outside contacts and by the response to the first project in the last two
years. Immigration of Mossi from the densely populated central plateau is
growing at about 2% per year. This immigration, mainly along the principal
roads, is increasing pressures on the environinent, not yet to extreme propor-
tions, although deforestation and degraded soils are now a problem in the
central half of the area. First and second project activities have and will
continue to be orientated to addressing these problems in general programs
open to all people in the region.



- 7 -
2.03      The project area is located between the Black Volta and Bougouriba
rivers and also encompasses the Poni river. Because of the threat of oncho-
cerciasis, these valley areas have low population and some 7,000 km2 are re-
served as settlement zones under the AAVV (para 1.12), and thus fall outside
the responsibility of the ORD. They are not covered by either the first or
proposed second Bougouriba projects. To date, AAVV has developed one block
at Djipologo on the right bank of the Bougouriba outside Diebougou, comprising
five villages and 240 families. Of these, 72 are Mossi families, the remain-
ing being drawn from the local Dagari population. AAVV plans call for seven
further blocks and settlement of some 1,500 familles by the end of 1983.
Land Features and Climate
2.04      The topography of the ORD is undulating with eroded hills and some
large stretches of plains, crossed by small streams in the wet season, and
areas of swamplands. Eighty percent of the area can be cultivated. In 1968
ORSTOM studied the soils in the areas reserved for AAVV. The complex soils
are, in general, poor in organic material, and deficient in phosphorous and
potassium. A detailed description is given in the preparation report. The
pH tends to be acidic (5-6) although data on this is limited. Soil pH analyses
will be necessary to monitor soil acidity, which is likely to increase to the
extent of the limited increase of mineral fertilizers without an offsetting
increase in organic manure use. Crop distribution is detailed in Chapter V.
Vegetation in upland areas is Savannah woodland, typified by sheanut and
acacias in association with perennial grasses, mainly Andropogon Gayanas,
Paspalum and Panicum. About 6-7 ha are needed to support one tropical animal
unit (defined as weaned bovine).
2.05      There are 11 meteorological stations in the area, of which six have
been in place for over 20 years. In general, the project area is in Upper
Volta's best climatic region for agricultural development. Total annual rain-
fall varies from 900 mm in the north to 1,200 mm in the south.  While evapo-
transpiration rates are high, water is in surplus for plant growth from June
through September, and this is adequate for the successful cultivation of a
wide range of annual crops.  However, the principal limiting factor is not
total annual rainfall but the timing and number of days on which there is
rain. Rainfall statistics over 30 years show that for one year in five, the
distribution of rain-days is unfavorable. Rainfall is frequently deficient
after sowing, and sometimes also between flowering and crop maturity. In
both cases output falls. This uncertainty is taken into account when fore-
casting crop yields for the project. Daytime temperatures range between
210C and 350C during the wet season; the extreme variation is from 90C
to 430C. Annual sunshine hours average close to 2,900, with the lowest
monthly average in August (155 hours).  The climatic conditions are tolerant
of a range of photosensitive varieties (120-140 days growing), but with the
timing of sowing being of considerable importance--the best time for planting
being around the first of June.
Roads
2.06      The lack of a comprehensive roads network, in what had been an
isolated region of the country, was one of the factors explaining the pre-
dominance of traditional subsistence agriculture at the start of the first
project. Under that project some 650 km of feeder roads have been built,



- 8 -
providing access for inputs and extension workers, and an outlet for cash
crops. The primary road network of 450 km has received inadequate maintenance
during this period, with the result that those newly-built feeder roads, which
can provide alternative routings to primary roads, are being put to heavier
use than they are designed for. Additional feeder roads, to be constructed
under upcoming IDA projects (para 3.05), will further diminish one of the main
constraints for farmers to increase production, especially of yams in the
southern part of the project area.
Farming Systems
2.07      There are 33,000 farmers in the project area, of which 13,000
have been reached under the first project. Altogether some 200,000 ha are
cultivated, and about 80% of this land is under cereals, mostly sorghum and
millet; the rest is under a variety of crops, the most important being cotton,
groundnuts, yams, sesame, and cowpeas.
2.08      Cultivation is carried out mainly by handhoe (Daba), but work oxen
and equipment, in spite of their high cost, are owned by some 550 farmers.
Intercropping is widely practiced in a variety of combinations. Sorghum,
sharing with millet the role of traditional grain staple, is normally planted
on the main farm parcel in close proximity to the family compound. The grain
is normally ground to a coarse flour and eaten as a porridge.
2.09      Some useful data on farm and family size is available on the basis
of ethnic groups:
Average
-- Family Size ---         Farm Size      Ha/Person
Total       Active              ha
(inc. children) (working)
Dagari                      9            4.5             5.1           0.57
Lobi                        7            4               4.2           0.60
Bwa                        14            5.5             7.4           0.53
Dian                       il            5               5.8           0.53
2.10      Livestock.   The area is atypical of West Africa and of Upper Volta
in that most cattle--which are of the trypano-tolerant taurin type--are owned
by farmers. Their cattle herd is estimated at 120,000. Farmers simply hold
rather than husband or use their cattle, which are sold for cash or allowed
to accumulate as a source of wealth. Small stock such as sheep, goats, pigs
and poultry are kept for home consumption or for cash sale. Health condi-
tions of livestock have improved under the first project, through vaccination
and other extension measures. A further 20,000 zebu cattle, susceptible to
tse-tse, are owned by Peul herdsmen who practice transhumance within the
region, but there is only negligible transhumance from or to other regions.
Power, Water Supply, Education and Health Services
2.11      Electricity and water became available at the ORD headquarters
financed under the first project. Public electricity and piped water are not
widely connected throughout the ORD. Generally, however, groundwater supplies



- 9 -
are abundant with the water table within 20 m, although in recent years it
has fallen. Numerous traditional wells exist, but many are dry four to five
months a year because they are shallow, poorly constructed and badly maintained
(particularly in the south). The first Bougouriba project constructed 119 new
wells, of which about 75% meet the minimum criteria of being wet at the end of
the dry season. USAID is financing a well construction program over 1980-1985,
covering about 75 new hand-dug wells, 75 deepened wells, and 150 machine-dug
wells.
2.12      School attendance is estimated at about 15% of the primary school
age group, or slightly higher than the national average. Primary schooling
is provided at about 40 locations, with more in the north than in the south
of the ORD. There are two secondary schools, a public one at Gaoua and
a private one at Diebougou. In addition, rural education is being pursued
through 41 young farmers' training centers comprising some 1,200 participants.
Renovation of these centers is being financed by the Second Education Project
(Credit 956-UV). The ORD maintains close contact with the young farmer
groups and will seek their involvement in the seed multiplication program
(para 4.11). There is also a training center for literate young women at
Gaoua, which is oriented to community development; the center was recently
reconstructed under finance from Misereor, a German Catholic aid agency.
2.13      Health conditions in the ORD are poor and similar to those found
generally in the rural areas of Upper Volta. Aside from riverblindness,
intestinal diseases, malaria and bilharzia are prevalent. There is a network
of health and maternity centers, a mobile field unit for checking on endemic
diseases, and a team of social workers devoted to mother and child care. The
field services are seriously hampered by shortages of qualified personnel and
medical materials. For serious illnesses, reasonably well-equipped hospitals,
with resident medical doctors, exist at Gaoua and Diebougou.
The First Project
2.14      The first project has been successful, if belatedly so, in creating
an enthusiastic extension staff, in sensitizing farmers to the potential bene-
fits of improved methods, in establishing a physical infrastructure of
feeder roads, wells, and buildings and increasing the availability of inputs.
Animal health conditions have improved. The impact on agricultural production,
although slower than forecast at appraisal, has provided a satisfactory rate
of return.
2.15      The physical infrastructure components of the first project have
been met, largely in accordance with appraisal targets, and consist of 650 km
of feeder roads, 119 village wells, 33 sector and subsector warehouses, vac-
cination yards, and ORD headquarters. Training facilities to be constructed
at Bobo-Dioulasso were not built, but are now being constructed under Credit
706-UV. This infrastructure will provide a base for further development but
will be usefully complemented by village level warehouses and extension agents
houses, a training room at Diebougou, additional office space and staff
housing.



- 10 -
2.16      The agricultural program to date has followed a multi-crop approach
directed at both cotton and foodcrops. At appraisal it was assumed that
farmers' adoption of improved technical packages would result mainly in an
increase in cash crop production--cotton--of 263%, with foodcrop production,
mainly for home consumption, rising by only 5%. Because there was no
specific project-financed unit, there has been inadequate monitoring and
evaluation, especially of foodcrops. In these circumstances, in order to
present figures with an acceptable degree of reliability, the most likely
estimates of the first project's impact, prepared during appraisal of the
second project, can be termed conservative. These estimates indicate that
the project in its fifth year (1979/80) achieved project-induced production
of 2,700 tons of cotton (145% above 1975/76), 3,600 tons of cereals, 270
tons of groundnuts, 60 tons of paddy, and 160 tons of meat. The percentage
increase in cereals production since 1975/76 is in the range 2 to 5%.
Cotton production has been achieved through both an increase in area (from
4,900 ha to 7,000 ha) and average yields (from 380 kg/ha to 650 kg/ha)
because of improved husbandry and input use. The increase in cereals output
is due to better husbandry. The rate of return is estimated at a satisfac-
tory 15%, compared with the appraisal estimate of 68%, now seen to be overly
optimistic.
2.17      Development of trained extension staff, and subsequently their
impact on farming practices, has taken place more slowly than anticipated
at appraisal. This is partially due to a decision taken early in the project
not to build an extension training center at Bobo-Dioulasso and instead to
rely on short-term courses at an existing school. After this school stopped
offering these courses in Year 2 of the project, the ORD Director decided,
with the Association's approval, to organize in-house courses. In April
1979, the training and visit system was introduced and extension services
reorganized.
2.18      In formulating a project to follow this first project--one of the
early agricultural projects approved by the Association (May 28, 1974)--
various changes in emphasis can be seen to be desirable in the light of
experience. Firstly, although technical packages are now better adapted to
the region, emphasis should continue on basic husbandry themes at farmer
level, coupled with improved communications in both directions wfth research.
Secondly, whilst the first project has organized in-house training and
introduced the training and visit system, greater attention to training, to
organization of the extension program, and the separation of commercial
functions from extension is now desirable. Thirdly, although much better
knowledge of the project area is now available, it will be necessary to
devote more resources to monitoring project progress. Management attention
needs to be focussed on clearly set production objectives, in order to avoid
the ever-present risk in an area with many avenues of development potential,
of attempting to tackle too much. The ORD area is blessed with rainfall in
the range of 1,000 mm/year, among the highest in this semi-arid land, and
low population density relative to land availability. Even given the impact
of the first project, most farmers in the area still practice traditional
methods. Given this present low level of productivity and the proven scope
for increasing yields in the region by extension techniques, a follow-up
project has the potential to give worthwhile results.



- il -
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      Following Government's request for a second project in the area,
and recognizing the unexploited potential that would still exist at the con-
clusion of a successful first project, the proposed project was identified by
IDA in 1977. It was prepared on behalf of Government by consultants financed
under Credit 640-UV during the first half of 1979. The consultants submitted
their final report in December 1979, and IDA appraised the project in February-
March 1980. A short post-appraisal mission took place in May 1980.
3.02      This five-year project would seek to consolidate the experience of
the first phase and, without expanding the extension service, would aim at a
greater number of farmers, further increasing agricultural and livestock
production in the Bougouriba ORD. Attention would be concentrated on the
technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved organization of the
training and extension, input distribution and credit. Successful animal
health activities would be continued and improved animal husbandry practices
and increased use of animal traction promoted with modest adoption goals
recognizing the relative novelty of these ideas in the area. 22,000 of the
33,000 farm families in the area would be directly reached by the agricultural
extension program, an increase of 9,000 from present level of 13,000; these
farmers would continue to receive extension advice. Emphasis would be upon
increasing yields of the main foodcrops--millet and sorghum--by simple hus-
bandry techniques; together with recommendations for the cash crops grown by
farmers in the various regions--principally yams in the south, groundnuts in
the east, and cotton in the north and south.  Small programs would encourage
more fruit and fuelwood tree planting, and erosion control.
3.03      In defining project content, particular attention has been given to
the need, in view of Government's difficult financial position, for agricul-
tural development projects to progressively recover their ongoing costs, in
order to ease the demands on Government budgetary support at the end of the
project implementation period. The separation of the input distribution system
from extension activities, with the introduction of a cost recovery margin,
is an important innovation in this area, together with the implementation of
increased interest rates towards the new maxima allowed by the West African
Monetary Union regulations. Also important will be the increased involvement
of farmers or farmers' groups in the distribution system at village level.
Summary Description
3.04      The project would specifically provide for:
(i) completing the introduction of the training and visit
system, thereby further improving the agricultural
extension service, together with support for animal
traction; seed production; field trials; and
demonstration plots;



- 12 -
(ii)  constructing and operating a new service for
staff training and extension methods, covering
the needs of agricultural, livestock and forestry
extension, and management;
(iii)  separating from other functions a self-accounting
supply and credit service to operate through the
existing network of 33 warehouses, in cooperation
with 118 village warehouses, to be constructed by
farmers groups with project assistance;
(iv) supplying farm inputs and equipment, and seasonal
and medium-term credit for their purchase;
(v) continuing animal health services, and encouraging
improved animal production practices;
(vi) establishing 350 ha of family fuelwood and fruit tree
planting, and 500 ha of protective bunds and tree
planting to counter erosion;
(vii) supporting the existing ORD headquarters through
appropriate staff and technical assistance, and
constructing a further office block and further staff
housing;
(viii) establishing a small monitoring unit, and providing
funds for outside assistance with evaluation and
studies.
3.05      The project would come under the Ministry of Rural Development, and
be implemented by the Bougouriba ORD. Project production forecasts assume
the ongoing maintenance of 650 km of rural roads constructed under the first
project; the construction over five years, and subsequent maintenance of a
further 650 km of rural roads; and the rehabilitation and subsequent mainte-
nance of some 400 km of national roads in the project area. The rural roads
work will be undertaken by the Secondary Roads Maintenance Service; finance
for a three-year program (400 km in the Bougouriba area) is already proposed
under the Second Rural Roads Project appraised in April 1980.   The national
roads work will be undertaken by the Public Works Department; finance for
a five-year program (450 km in the Bougouriba area) is also proposed for
the Fourth Highways Project, to be presented to the Board in April 1981.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would undertake
the necessary road programs in the Bougouriba area, and that the relevant
services would consult the ORD each year when planning their work programs
(para. 8.01).
3.06      Recurrent costs in the first project (Credit 496-UV) have been
defined as those costs necessary to maintain the level of production achieved
under the first project. These are estimated to total CFAF 85 million
(US$405,000) per year (1981 prices) and will be met entirely by Government
and are not included in project costs. The method by which Government



- 13 -
will meet these costs is by financing the allowances, benefits, and travel
expenses of civil servants attached to the project, and vehicle operating
costs, totalling CFAF 85 million/year in 1981 prices. Schedules of these
costs were discussed at negotiations and suitable assurances reflecting these
points were obtained (para 8.01). During the second project Government
will be contributing CFAF 36 million/year to second project costs. The sum of
these two contributions and the cost recovery markup on supplies (para 4.19)
should be sufficient to cover the ongoing costs necessary to maintain the
level of production achieved under the second project.
Detailed Features
3.07      Extension Service.  The changeover to the training and visit method
of extension, introduced in 1979, would be completed during the first two
years of the project. By establishing a separate supply and credit service,
extension agents would be involved in extension only, which would be organized
along the lines of the training and visit system, tailored to Voltaic condi-
tions in the light of experience gained at the West Volta Agricultual Develop-
ment Project (Credit 706-UV). With the changeover, the number of extension
workers would by PY5 stand at 100 (against the current level of 129), giving a
ratio to total farm families in the ORD of 1.330, and to farm families directly
reached of 1:220. The project would finance material for 34 extension houses,
7 sector office wells, 12 pick-ups, the salaries of 159 (PY5) contractual
staff, and associated operating and maintenance costs. Allied to the extension
service would be the seeds section, which would ensure the multiplication and
distribution (in cooperation with the supply and credit service) of improved
seeds; and the trials and demonstrations section, which would work in close
collaboration with research bodies and farmers in conducting field trials of
new approaches, and their subsequent demonstration when a decision had been
taken to recommend them.
3.08      Staff Training and Extension Methods.  The project would estab-
lish a small training section for recycling groups of up to 30 agents at a time.
Farmers representatives would also be directly trained as appropriate. The
section would draw heavily upon the experience of, and material produced at,
the West Volta project, and would cover the needs of specialist livestock and
forestry staff, as well as serving as a means of integrating livestock and
forestry themes into the work program of the extension services. The
section would also cover the training needs of the supply and credit service,
with assistance from the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA), and in
conjunction with the Pan-African Development Institute's branch in Ouagadougou,
provide support to the management personnel. The project would finance the
construction of a 125 m2 classroom, audio-visual and other equipment, a
station wagon, contractual staff salaries including two years technical
assistance, and other operating costs.
3.09      Supply and Credit Service.  A self-accounting supply and credit ser-
vice will be created within the ORD which will allow the costs of input distri-
bution and credit to be more readily identified and also serve as a tool for
involving farmers, initially at the last stage in the distribution and credit
recovery process, and create the possibility of passing a soundly functioning



- 14 -
service, in a subsequent phase, to full or partial farmer management, or
even to private enterprise. Government would arrange for CNCA to manage the
project's agricultural credit funds on Government's behalf, with day-to-day
operations being handled by the ORD supply and credit service. The service
would operate mainly through the 30 existing subsector warehouses, which would
be opened one or two days a week by a staff of 10 field agents who would each
cover 3 warehouses. Funds would also be provided for roofing and doors for
village warehouses for up to 118 farmers groups, who would undertake to
construct them from local materials. Credit granted for annual inputs and
draft equipment would be managed by the service, with a separate accounting.
The service may also, if necessary, facilitate farmers getting their produce
to market, for a fee (para 6.04). The project would finance material for
village warehouses, a heavy truck, a pick-up truck, contractual staff salaries,
and a technical assistant at CNCA.
3.10      Annual Inputs and Draft Equipment.  Farm equipment, agricultural
inputs and selected livestock inputs would be stocked at 33 supply service
warehouses for sale on cash or credit. In addition, bulk supplies of fer-
tilizers and insecticides would be delivered by SOFITEX directly to about 120
villages as back-loads on cotton collection trucks -- with the transaction
passing through the books of the supply and credit service to the responsible
village group. Draft oxen would be sold on credit; at this stage it is
necessary for the project to purchase, train and condition the animals before
selling them to farmers on credit -- this will be the responsibility of
a small specialist service operating under the project. The project would
finance the credit needs for 1,500 sets of oxen and ox equipment and the
incremental requirements of annual inputs, the total distribution of which
by PY5 will be 2,000 tons of fertilizers, 110,000 litres of insecticides,
350 sprayers and sundry other supplies. The supply and credit service would
be responsible for the accounting for seed production.
3.11      Livestock.  The health and productivity of the herds of 120,000
taurin cattle owned by farmers, and of 20,000 zebu cattle owned by Peul
herdsmen, will be protected by a continuing animal health campaign, which
will also protect the human population from anthrax. Sheep, goats and
poultry will also be protected by similar campaigns. For these purposes the
project will finance the construction of a sector office and 3 new veterinary
posts, raising the total to 9, the construction of 16 vaccination yards, and
the repair of 52 others, resulting in a network of 65 yards. Vaccines and
other veterinary supplies are currently paid for at their purchase cost,
which as with agricultural inputs will be increased by a 15% margin to cover
part of the costs of the delivery system. Actions to increase animal
production, such as encouraging use of feed supplements or other fodder
crops, or to better integrate livestock into the agricultural cycle, such as
compost making, would be carefully selected, and a modest adoption rate
forecast during the course of the project, recognizing the present lack of
awareness of farmers of these measures, and the lack of pressure on grazing



- 15 -
(fallow) land in the region. Animal production themes would be promoted by
10 specialist extension agents, aided by the audio-visual program, and the
agricultural extension work program. The project would finance construction
and repairs costs, salaries of contractual staff, cold storage and veterinary
equipment, associated operating costs, and a poultry study.
3.12      Family Tree Planting and Anti-Erosion Work.  The project would
support a small pilot activity complementary to the Forestry Project (Credit
982-UV), and geared to (i) meeting some priority needs in those areas of the
ORD where removal of the tree cover is a problem; and (ii) creating an aware-
ness of the importance of tree planting. Eight additional Forestry Department
junior staff that Government is to assign to the area would encourage 100 farm
families to plant 350 ha of fruit or fuelwood trees during the project execu-
tion period. Seedlings would come from an existing nursery at Diebougou and
a new one at Gaoua. The local forest service would also work with the popula-
tion of Diebougou to recreate a 150 ha green belt around the town, and with
the ORD to guard against erosion a 135 ha area lying above the ORD headquarters.
The project would finance vehicle and operating costs, office space for forest
service staff within the new ORD office building, tools, labor, and watchmen
for the various activities, and two man-months of consultancy, which should be
available locally. Other anti-erosion activities form part of the general
agricultural extension work.
3.13      ORD Headguarters.  The project would be managed by the Bougouriba
ORD, which requires additional office space to adequately discharge its
responsibilities. This construction will be financed by the project to-
gether with quarters for visitors, 7 senior staff houses, 4 station wagons,
4 pick-up trucks, 3 technical assistants, contractual staff salaries, and
associated operating and maintenance costs.
3.14      Monitoring and Studies.  The project would finance a team of seven
enumerators (one per sector) whose work would be supplemented by the basic
records kept by extension agents regarding the farmers they are dealing with.
A central staff of 5 will summarize and analyze this data and also ensure
that regular quarterly reports on project activities are prepared by the
various services in a suitable form. The project would finance the salaries
of contractual staff, 14 man-months of consultancy, 7 mopeds, studies for
follow-up activities, and associated operating costs.
3.15      Technical Assistance.  As there is a lack of suitable Voltaic
staff, the project would require technical assistance in general agricul-
ture, cotton, training, administration, monitoring and evaluation, and audi-
ting. Funds would be provided for four expatriate project staff positions
(17 man-years), and one position at the National Agricultural Credit Bank (5
man-years), estimated to cost about US$100,000 per man-year; and consulting
and auditing services (44 man-months) estimated to cost US$440,000 at a
man-month cost of US$10,000.



- 16 -
Cost Estimates
3.16      Project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties (from which
the project would be exempt), are estimated to be CFAF 3,678 million (US$17.5
million) of which CFAF 1,906 million (US$9.1 million) or 52% represent
foreign exchange requirements.
Project Costs
% For. % Base
CFAF million          US$ million      Exchange  Costs
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
1. Agricultural Extension   602       119    721    2.8    0.6    3.4    17         28
2. Training and Extension
Methods               26      110    136    0.2    0.5    0.7    81          5
3. Supply Service             101     180    281    0.5    0.8    1.3    64          12
4. Oxen, ox equipment, and
incremental inputs      226      308    534    1.1    1.4    2.5    58         21
5. Livestock                 112       98    210    0.5    0.5    1.0    47           8
6. Tree planting               50      17      67    0.2    0.1    0.3    25          2
7. Headquarters               130     454    584    0.6    2.2    2.8    78          21
8. Monitoring and Studies    41        41      82    0.2    0.2    0.4    50          3
TOTAL BASE COSTS           1,288   1,327  2,615    6.1    6.3   12.4    51          100
Physical Contingencies    113       108    221    0.5    0.6    1.1    49
Price Contingencies        371      471    842    1.8    2.2    4.0    56
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        1,772   1,906  3,678    8.4    9.1   17.5    52
3.17      Cost estimates are based on prices and quotations obtained during
appraisal in February 1980, revised to allow for anticipated price increases
to February 1981. Physical contingencies added to base costs are 15% for
civil works, and 10% for vehicles, non-farm equipment and operating costs
Base costs plus physical contingencies were increased overall by some 30% to
allow for expected price inflation, calculated at the following annual rates
for both the local and foreign components: 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, and 7%
thereafter.
Proposed Financing
3.18      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million)
would finance 91% of net project costs, to effectively cover 100% of foreign
exchange costs (US$9.1 million) and 82% of local costs (US$6.9 million)
Upper Volta would contribute 9% of project costs.



- 17 -
Financing Plan
Total Costs    Upper Volta   IDA
--US$ millions              
1.  Civil Works                          1.6                        1.6
2.  Vehicle and Equipment                0.9             -          0.9
3. Personnel:
i.   Civil servants                  0.3            0.3         -
ii.  Contractual staff               5.2             -         5.2
iii. Expatriate staff, consultants
and audit                      3.6             -          3.6
4. Operating and Maintenance costs:
i.   Vehicles                        0.7            0.7          -
ii.  Rents, travel costs, civil
servants travel allowances    0.1              -          0.1
iii. Other                           1.2             -         1.2
5.  Farm Equipment and oxen              1.5            0.2         1.3
6.  Incremental annual inputs            2.4            0.3         2.1
17.5            1.5       16.0
Equivalent in SDR                       13.6            1.2        12.4
3.19      Because Upper Volta has difficulty in prefinancing expenditures,
an amount of SDR 400,000 (CFAF 110 million), advanced from the IDA Credit,
would be deposited in a special bank account under the joint control of the
ORD Director and the project's Financial Coordinator (para 4.03). As
with other Upper Volta projects, the IDA share of disbursements in local
currency would normally be made from the special account and reimbursement
made by IDA to this account. Reimbursement applications, which would be
documented as described at para. 3.22, would also be accompanied by (i) a
statement of movements on the account since the previous application, with
the balance certified by the bank holding the account; and (ii) a reconcil-
iation showing that the balance represents the original amount deposited in
the account less payments awaiting reimbursement, or small working advances.
Should any disbursements be made for expenditures not allowable under the
IDA credit, Government would redeposit the corresponding amount. Assurances
to these effects were obtained at negotiations (para. 8.01). The opening
of the account would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 8.02).
It is currently estimated that funds of the first project will be exhausted
in February 1981. As Credit Signing is expected to occur after this,
retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 would be available to ensure that
an effective level of services would be maintained.
Procurement
3.20      Procurement of civil works (totalling US$1.6 million) would
be by competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures which are
acceptable to IDA, or with the agreement of IDA by force account. Experience
in Upper Volta has shown that works in remote areas at the size anticipated
do not attract international firms, nor often competent national contractors.



- 18 -
Equipment and supplies relating to civil works undertaken by force account
will be procured in accordance with the relevant categories that follow.
Farm and livestock inputs (US$2.4 million), vehicles (US$0.7 million) and
equipment (US$0.2 million) other than animal traction equipment, would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA guidelines for contracts over US$100,000, through local competitive
bidding acceptable to IDA for contracts between US$30,000 and US$100,000, and
through local competitive shopping for contracts under US$30,000. Animal
traction equipment (US$0.8 million) would be procured under local competi-
tive bidding procedures. Oxen for sale on credit (US$0.7 million) would be
purchased in local markets. Domestically manufactured goods under ICB would
be allowed a preference of 15%, or the level of the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. Internationally recruited staff (US$2.2 million),
consultants (US$1.3 million), and auditors (US$0.1 million) would be employed
following procedures acceptable to IDA. Para. 3.15 details the unit costs
of these items. Remaining project costs consist of local salaries, wages
and allowances (US$5.5 million) and operating and maintenance costs (US$2.0
million).
Disbursements
3.21      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million)
would be disbursed over six years under the following categories:
SDR           US$          % of
----millions-----       Expenditures
1. Civil Works                             1.1          1.4            100
2. Vehicles and Equipment                  0.6          0.8            100
3. National Contractual Staff Salaries
and Allowances                        3.5          4.5            100
4. Consultants; Audit; and non-National
Staff Salaries and Allowances        2.4           3.1            100
5. Operating and Maintenance Costs:
i. Rents and Travel Costs of
Additional Civil Servants           0.1          0.1            100
ii. Other Costs Excluding Vehicle
Costs                              0.8           1.0            100
6. Farm Equipment and Oxen For Resale    0.8            1.1             87
7. Incremental Annual Inputs               1.4          1.8             87
8. Initial Deposit in Special Account    0.4            0.5
9. Unallocated                             1.3          1.7
TOTAL                     12.4          16.0
The table of disbursements is at Annex 2.
3.22      Applications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully docu-
mented, except for local salaries, operating costs, and oxen purchases,
which would be submitted with certified detailed statements of expenditures,
whose supporting invoices would be retained for verification by the project
auditors and for inspection in the course of project supervision.



- 19 -
Accounts, Audits and Reports
3.23      During the first project, accounts have been well kept and the
project accounts have received satisfactory audit reports. Government would
require the ORD to continue to keep records consistent with sound accounting
practices and adequately reflecting its operations and financial position.
In particular, separate accounts would be kept for the supply service, agri-
cultural credit, all other project activities and the ORD in general to ensure
easy identification of project costs and disbursements. The supply service
and credit accounts would have separate bank accounts. As with other agricul-
tural projects in Upper Volta, the various accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of the audited
accounts and the auditors' report would be sent to IDA within six months of
the end of each financial year. The audit would comment upon the appro-
priateness of the accounting system and internal controls, say whether IDA
funds had been used for their intended purpose and confirm that the summary
statements of expenditure against which disbursements were made correctly
reflect the detailed records kept by the ORD. Assurances as to the above
were obtained during negotiations (para. 8.01).
3.24      The ORD would prepare annual budgets and work programs and submit
them for approval by MRD and the ORD Board of Directors and to IDA for infor-
mation. The ORD would also prepare quarterly and annual progress reports
(including key monitoring indicators) and a project completion report (PCR)
with a format and content acceptable to IDA. The PCR would be submitted
to IDA not later than six months after the closing date of the credit.
Assurances on the above were obtained from Government during negotiations
(para. 8.01).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMfENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
Project Organization
4.01      As with the first project, the proposed project would be under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) and would be executed
by the Bougouriba ORD, headquartered at Diebougou, whose director would be the
project director. Four units report to the ORD director -- technical, adminis-
trative, the field extension structure and monitoring. Separate technical
services under the technical director are organized to parallel the structure
of the MRD central services. The ORD would be assisted in its project role by
the Forestry Service and by the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA), with
whom close coordination would be necessary. Marketing of project production
would be through local markets, private traders, OFNACER (cereals) and SOFITEX
(cotton). Annex 3 shows the organization chart, which is already partly
operational, and will be fully implemented during the first two years of the
second project.
Farmer Participation
4.02      Building on farmers already reached by extension, further farmer par-
ticipation in the project would be generated by the extension staff supported
by audio-visual aids and rural radio broadeasts. Extension services, organized
along modified training and visit lines, would in future be made available only



- 20 -
to villages where a minimum of eight farmers, increasing to 12 farmers by PY5,
agree to form an extension group. Group members would be chosen by the local
community, and no attempt would be made by the project to grade members accord-
ing to technical skills or receptivity. Each group would be asked to nominate
a person to remind other members of the scheduled extension visits. The group
would decide at the start of each visit which member's fields would be visited
on that day. With each of the 100 general extension agents visiting 18 contact
groups of 12 members in PY5, the service would directly influence 21,600 farmers
at that time, representing two-thirds of the ORD-s farm population. Separate
from, but normally overlapping the extension groups, the supply and credit
service would work with groups to facilitate the distribution of supplies and
credit at village level (para. 4.17).
Staffing
4.03      To relieve extension staff of commercial functions, to upgrade
middle level technical support, to expand training activities, and to increase
the coverage of extension workers, the ORD would restructure itself during the
first two years of the project, completing a process already commenced. By
PY5 project-financed national staff would have decreased from 294 in PYI to
261. Funds have been provided for four internationally recruited ORD staff
(15 man-years) occupying the line management positions of Technical Director
(5 years), Financial Coordinator (5 years), Cotton Specialist (5 years) and
Training Specialist (2 years). The Technical Director and Cotton Specialist
are already in post, under the first project. The Training Specialist is a
new role reflecting the emphasis to be placed on training and extension
organization. The post of Financial Coordinator is also new, and he will
be particularly concerned with the new supply service and cost recovery. He
will also aim to repeat the successful training of local staff which occurred
under the first project, a local accountant having replaced the first project's
expatriate accountant in 1979. Accordingly, in the case of the Technical
Director and Financial Coordinator, the heads of the appropriate services
within their ambit would be regarded as candidates for promotion, and the
Training Specialist would be responsible for drawing up programs aimed at
grooming them for higher responsibility. The decision to promote a candidate
may be taken earlier than five years. In the case of the expatriate Training
Specialist, it would be intended that his deputy would take over after two
years; provision would be made for 2 man-months consultancy in each of the
next three years. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
four technical assistance positions and a position at CNCA would be filled by
staff whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment are accept-
able to IDA (para. 8.01). Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement amends the
provisions of the corresponding sections of the earlier credit agreements, in
order to reflect the above staffing structure.
4.04      To enable the project to attract and retain qualified Voltaic staff,
adequate housing, allowances, or bonuses may need to be paid, both to civil
servants assigned to the project and to ORD contractual employees. The levels
currently being paid under the first project, which are used in the calculation



- 21 -
of the Government's contribution to ongoing first project costs (para. 3.06),
are likely to be reviewed by Government in order to harmonize conditions at
various ORDs and with other civil servants undertaking similar responsibili-
ties or working in similar conditions. Pending this review, the Government
would be asked to continue the salaries and allowances at the current levels
in real terms, After review, or at any time, Government and IDA would
discuss whether salary or allowance levels were causing problems in properly
staffing the project. Should the future levels paid vary substantially from
the current levels in real terms, the arrangements for Government meeting the
share of ongoing first project costs may need revising, but the Association
would not seek a revision if Goverunient found it possible to effect economies
without impinging on project efficiency. Assurances as to the above were
obtained from Government during negotiations (para. 8.01).
Extension and Training
4.05      Extension Organization.  To increase its efficiency, the extension
service has started to implement the Training and Visit System. Procedures
are being adapted to local conditions, especially as regards extensibn groups
as explained at para. 4.02. These arrangements are based on experience
gathered under the West Volta Agricultural Development Project, with which
close liaison is and will be maintained.
4.06      The first major step would be to liberate the extension agents from
supply and credit functions to enable them to concentrate on true extension
activities, particularly the motivation of farmers to improve their practices.
The extension service would stay in close contact with the ORD supply service
(para. 4.17) to ensure that the inputs required by the improved techniques
being promoted would be available to farmers, and the extension agent would
inform his contact groups about the facilities (such as credit) offered by
the supply and credit service, but would no longer be responsible for admi-
nistering commercial activities. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations (para. 8.01).
4.07      The work program of the general agricultural extension agent would
be based on a system of regular visits to farmers. Traditional cultural
practices would be progressively improved by practical sessions of two sorts:
(i) at demonstration plots (no more than two for an extension agent) to make
known research results to farmers; and (ii) at farmers own plots to be visited
in turn to discuss practical and more specific points. Work programs would
also be evolved for the 10 livestock extension agents, and the eight forestry
agents, taking into account the greater area these agents need to cover. The
technical director would be in charge of the content of the extension program,
including the necessary integration of the livestock and forestry themes into
the general extension program. He would be supported by four specialist
services -- agriculture, animal production, training and extension methods,
and rural works. The agricultural and animal production service heads would
provide the technical direction for extension staff, helping them to develop
their extension message, supplying them with technical material and assisting
them with their demonstration programs.



- 22 -
4.08      Field operations will be controlled by two regional chiefs formally
reporting to the ORD director but working on a day-to-day basis with the
Technical Director and the Financial Coordinator. The two regions, based
on Diebougou for the north and Gaoua for the south, reflect the need to split
the ORD area to enable closer control. The northern region is divided into
three sectors, the southern into four, each with a sector chief and deputy
sector chief.  Subsectors are based on the political subprefectures, of which
there are 30.  After PY2, there will be only 20 subsector chiefs (some
covering two subsectors), and after PY4 100 general extension agents. The
planned reduction in subsector chiefs in favor of deputy sector chiefs is
to ensure greater attention to agricultural extension at sector level, and
to provide for subject matter specialists. The sector chief is in turn also
responsible for coordinating all ORD activities in the sector, and relation-
ships with Government authorities. This aspect would be kept under review
during execution.
4.09      The seven deputy sector chiefs would thus be the key field
extension officers, passing on the extension message at regular weekly sub-
sector meetings. At these meetings, the extension agent would present a
report on his contacts with farmers (including farmers' response and sugges-
tions, which would be encouraged as part of the program) and other activities
which would also be in standard tabular form to ensure easy cheeking and rapid
assimilation at headquarters. Each deputy would also have subject matter
specialist responsibility for one or two of the eight principal crops in the
region. The headquarters subject matter specialists for cotton, livestock,
and forestry would also work directly with the deputy sector chiefs during
fortnightly sessions, which initially at least, would also be attended by
the training chief.
4.10      The West Volta project has developed reporting and program sche-
duling forms which could be used with little or no change under this project.
On a fixed day each week the extension agents in a given subsector would draw
up a list of farmers' groups he would visit and would receive training from
the deputy sector chief or subsector chief concerning the messages he would
promote during the week. Additional training would be given by the subject
matter specialists who would tour the ORD on a previously agreed schedule.
On the fifth day of the weekly cycle, the extension agent would complete
his various reports and undertake any special enquiries. Extension would,
initially at least, concentrate upon cereals-cotton-groundnuts, or cereal-
yams, according to the region. Farmers' responses and suggestions would be
sought at all times, and the emphasis changed if necessary to ensure that
the extension follows the farmers' preferences.
4.11      Project management would also seek to further develop and improve
links between extension, research and seed production. In particular, the
project's trials service, and the ORD's seeds service, will foster such
links. The ORD seeds unit would ensure the production, by PY5, of 100 tons of
improved groundnuts, 12 tons of cereals, and 16 tons of paddy, which would
be distributed by the ORD supply service. Arrangements were agreed at
negotiations and an assurance obtained (para. 8.01) that the ORD, on its own



- 23 -
sites or by contract to farmers or to young farmers groups, would produce
improved seeds from foundation seeds obtained via the National Seeds Service.
The National Seeds Service would certify the ORD-produced seeds, give technical
support, and ensure that adequate supplies of foundation seeds are available
to the ORD.
4.12      Under the project, the trials and demonstrations section would
have three main functions. First, close contact would be maintained with
the relevant research institutes (para 1.13) and also wîth the adaptive
research unit under the Koudougou Agricultural Development Project (para
1.07). At least one formal meeting would be held each year with each
relevant institution, during the off-season, at which the previous season's
experience would be reviewed, and any plans agreed for the coming year. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that links with research would be
arranged, and that the first such meetings with IRAT, ICRISAT, IRHO and FAO
shall be held not later than March 31, 1981 (para 8.01). The meetings will
also be attended by representatives of the extension service. A second
function would be to continue to operate the field trials programs, both on
ORD plots and on farmers  fields, which will be based upon the discussions
with the research institutes and extension service. Thirdly, the section
would continue to operate demonstration plots both on ORD and on farmerss
fields, and to support the extension agents in establishing two demonstration
plots each.
4.13      To summarize, the essential feature of the implementation of the
Training and Visit System, which the second project would allow to be com-
pleted, would be (i) to organize the extension staff by implementing a work
plan with clearly defined and programmed physical objectives; (ii) to train
continuously the staff, with continuous two-way communication between farmers,
extension, and research; and (iii) to retain flexibility to adapt the methods
and the content of extension to the local situation.
4.14      Extension Support Services.  The training and extension metho-
dology section would include an audio-visual unit to produce Super-8 films
and slides on project-related topics, including livestock and forestry
themes, which would be shown throughout the ORD by a mobile team. Other
films or slides would be obtained from the West Volta project, and general
interest films would be rented to be shown along with the extension films.
The training and extension methodology section would aiso be responsible for
the rural radio program financed by Government.  As the nearest radio station
is at Bobo-Dioulasso, reception is not good throughout the ORD, but use would
be made of the service as appropriate. Farmers use of radio would be sur-
veyed by the monitoring and studies service (para. 4.24).
4.15      Training.  All current extension agents have either received
basic training at the Matourkou school near Bobo-Dioulasso, or, more usually,
on-the-job training. The training center, under an experienced training
specialist, would therefore be responsible for recycling extension agents, to
improve their technical knowledge in a program specific to the ORD, and to
train them in the training and visit organizational methods specific to the
ORD, and in communication and extension methodology skills. While early
courses would concentrate on cultural methods (with separate courses for the
two main models), later courses would include animal husbandry, production



- 24 -
and use of compost, simple animal health procedures, and tree planting.
Separate courses would also be given for the specialist livestock extension
and forestry agents. The service would make use not only of the project
staff in giving training; they would seek out suitable lecturers from the
many research and other institutions in Upper Volta concerned with rural
development. The guest house will be available to lodge visiting lecturers;
field staff can readily find temporary accommodation in Diebougou for which
they will be paid an allowance. Appropriate training or explanatory seminars
would also be organized for leaders of village groups or other farmers repre-
sentatives as necessary.
4.16      The training department would also be responsible for organizing
training in other services, particularly the supply service. Training for
credit activities would be undertaken in conjuction with the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). Senior staff needs would be catered for in
two particular ways. First, a series of in-house seminars to be organized
in conjunction with the Pan-African.Development Institute's branch in
Ouagadougou, at say six-monthly intervals, would aim at the project-specific
application of modern management practices. Secondly, funds would be
available for visits by senior staff -- usually within Upper Volta -- to
other projects and research institutes, to exchange views and keep abreast
of new developments which may be applied at project level.
Supplies and Credit
4.17      Currently extension agents are responsible for sale of supplies and
credit recovery, although in practice much of this activity functions smoothly
through SOFITEX, which delivers fertilizers and recovers credit at the time of
cotton purchase.  To free the extension service from ancillary tasks, to
clearly identify costs and encourage their recovery, and to lay the foundation
for an eventual takeover of the supply function by appropriate farmer orga-
nizations or private enterprise, a supply and credit service would be created.
Assurances that the service would be fully established by the end of PYI was
obtained at negotiations (para. 8.01). The expatriate Financial Coordinator
would devote a large portion of his energies to this service in its initial
years. The service would operate primarily through the existing network of
30 subsector warehouses and would provide equipment (ox- and donkey-drawn
implements and carts) for cash or medium-term credit; and seasonal farm inputs
for cash or short-term credit (fertilizer, insecticide) or cash only (ox
feed). A large portion of the fertilizer and insecticide requirements are
distributed as back-loads to cotton collection points -- the service wili aim,
on a pilot basis, at increasing the role of village groups at these points, to
act as the retailers of supplies and credits, receiving part of the margin to
be introduced for taking on these responsibilities. Participating villages
would also be encouraged to construct small warehouses using local materials,
together with roofing and door material provided by the project.
4.18      Oxen for supply to farmers would be purchased by the project,
trained and conditioned by the animal traction service, and then resold on
credit. The accounting and credit aspects would be handled by the supply



- 25 -
and credit service. Veterinary and related supplies would be handled by the
livestock service, with selected items also available through the supply
service warehouses. The supply service would supervise the accounting for
veterinary supplies.
4.19      A mark-up would be introduced in PY2 on supplies, including
veterinary supplies, averaging 5% on the unsubsidized cost to the ORD.
Improved seeds would bear a greater mark-up compared with producer prices
for foodgrains. These mark-ups would be reviewed each year and increased so
that by PY5 they would fully recover the cost of the service.  The pilot
testing of village responsibility for distribution will also contribute to
cost recovery. At negotiations assurances were obtained from Government on
the above terms (para. 8.01).
4.20      Credit activities to date have been modest, and recovery experi-
ence of short-term credit, normally in excess of 90%, satisfactory. The
rate fell to 79% in 1980, because of personnel problems, but corrective
measures are underway. The first recoveries for medium-term credit were
made in 1980. Credit activities and the management of the revolving fund
would be the responsibility of the CNCA. Funds would be passed from Govern-
ment to CNCA to manage on Government's behalf on conditions acceptable to
IDA. Some day-to-day credit operations would be the responsibility of the
ORD. Medium- and short-term credit is presently made available to small
farmers at the maximum permitted under previous rediscounting regulations,
8.5%. These regulations were altered in April 1980 to permit a maximum of
15.5% on short-term credit and 11% on medium-term. Government has informed
the Association that they are moving toward a policy of setting the interest
rate based on the real cost of money and administrative costs and the use of
separate interest rates for short and medium-term credit. The inflation
rate has been running at about 12% per year; but domestic inflation is
expected to decline over the next few years, in line with international
inflation.
4.21      Lending conditions would be in accordance with CNCA general
lending terms, which are: for seasonal credit: no down payment, with
repayment of principal and interest within one year; for oxen and equipment
credit: a down payment between 10 and 20%, and repayment in four equal
annual installments after a one-year grace period for capital. In the case
of oxen, a 10% insurance payment for four years would be required, but 75%
of the payment less claims for each village group would be refunded to the
group after five years.  Credit would, within two years, only be made
available to members of farmer groups. A group whose members as a whole
were less than 90% repaid for the second previous year would not be eligible
for further credit until the arrears had been cleared.  These terms will
also apply to other IDA-financed projects, requiring amendment to the credit
agreements or side letters for the Second Rural Development Fund Project
(Credit 640-UV), the West Volta Agricultural Development Project (Special
Action Credit 49-UV), and the Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project
(Credit 1013-UV). Details of the policies and procedures to be agreed
between Government and CNCA would be submitted to IDA for approval as a
condition of credit effectiveness (para. 8.02).



- 26 -
Livestock Service
4.22      Although no organizational change will take place in the ORD's
livestock service itself, the other organizational changes will enable
more attention to be given to animal production measures rather than simply
to animal health, although such measures (paras 5.16-17) will be limited
during the project period. Livestock owners in the ORD already pay the
purchase cost to the ORD of vaccines, drugs and other supplies. In line
with other farm supplies, a margin of 15% would be added to these prices to
partly cover the costs of the delivery system.
Forestry
4.23      Government would assign an additional eight junior agents to the
forestry service in the region, whose chief would be charged with encouraging
farmers to plant fruit and firewood trees. No organizational changes are
involved. The ORD director would be responsible for seeing that the necessary
links with the ORD function smoothly, especially the links with agricultural
extension; as project director he would have general oversight responsibility
for the component, including reporting and monitoring.
Monitoring and Studies
4.24      A consultant would be employed to help establish the monitoring
and planning unit and review its performance (6 man-months through PY5).
The main functions of the unit, which would be headed by a senior Voltaic
officer, would be to improve the data base required for proper project
management, and in particular to establish base-line data, to assess the
incremental production induced by the project, to monitor the farm labor
situation and farmers returns (para 6.05), and to survey the use of rural
radio (para 4.14). In view of the small size of the unit, only essential
data would be collected. Priorities would include follow-up work with the
livestock service on their herd structure surveys, and herd ownership surveys,
a limited base-line survey on cereals production, and continued sampling work
aimed at establishing annual cereals production and the impact of the project.
The base-line survey would take place in PY1. Funds are also provided for an
evaluation of production results and preparation of a follow-up project in PY4
with technical assistance.
V. PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Agricultural Practices
5.01      Under the first project, cultural practices of farmers improved,
especially in the case of cotton, whose cultivation in general is character-
ized by greater attention to sound cultural practices and higher use of
fertilizers and insecticides. With the slower than anticipated development of
trained extension staff (para. 2.17), the limited impact of the project on
other farming practices means that the cultural techniques used for other
crops still vary little throughout the ORD. This homogeneity is seen in four



- 27 -
aspects: (i) the average farm size is 5 to 6 ha; (ii) subsistence crops,
particularly cereals, predominate; (iii) mixed cropping, especially cereals-
legumes, is common; and (iv) fertilizer and other input use is very low.
These common characteristies imply that the extension service should not
attempt to distinguish, for the present, between farmers on the basis of the
level of their technical practices (para 4.02).
5.02      Crop mixes vary throughout the ORD according to soil types and
rainfall levels, and these differences are analyzed in four models:   (M)
cereals-cotton (north); (ii) cereals-groundnuts; (iii) cereals-rootcrops;
and (iv) cereals-cotton (south). These four models do not correspond to
strict geographic areas; cereals and cotton are grown throughout the ORD,
although cotton is mainly found in the north. Groundnuts are mainly grown in
the east-center and rootcrops in the south. The table on page 28 shows the
present areas of crops for each model, and their yields, together with the
position after five years of a farmer following the extension recommenda-
tions.  Average yields of farmers reached will be lower in PY5 than those
shown, as there will be a mix of farmers who have followed the recommendations
for five years and less.  In framing these models, emphasis has been placed on
assessing the incremental yield changes possible, as, except for cotton, data
on actual yields of crops is inadequate.  The monitoring service (para 4.24)
will attempt to improve the statistics of actual yields.
Cereals and Legumes
5.03      Sorghum is the country's principal subsistence crop, and is grown by
all ORD farmers. White sorghum is eaten while red sorghum is used to prepare
traditional beer. The main local sorghum varieties are Gnofing, Oueni and
Frikan. Some new varieties such as IRAT 57 and 271 are being slowly adopted.
At present only long-cycle (150-160 days) photosensitive varieties are grown,
resulting in poor yields when the rains stop early. Stalk length ranges from
2.5 m to 5 m, which produces substantial quantities of straw for burning or
roof-thatching. IRAT and ICRISAT continue to seek short-cycle, short-stalk
varieties, which would increase production. One of the main constraints to
the adoption of the existing short-cycle varieties (E35-1 and VS702) is that
adoption depends upon demonstration plots. However, as the demonstration crop
matures before the surrounding traditional fields, the output is immediately
eaten by birds. To succeed, a whole region or a large part of it would need
to adopt the short-cycle variety at once, and this could pose a serious
constraint. The alternative of planting the short-cycle varieties later is
not technically valid. Although it is known that stalk length is inversely
proportional to yields, farmers prefer long-stalk varieties, for fodder,
thatching, and burning for soil enrichment. Current researchers are con-
centrating upon reducing the number of leaves, and thus plant mass, thereby
increasing seed size. Research station yields vary between 2 and 3 tons/ha.
5.04      At FAO trials in the project area, using farmers own local variety
seeds, average yields at control plots are 400 kg/ha - without fertilizers
and using traditional cultural practices. Improved practices such as
sowing in line at the correct time, and weeding and ridging, raise yields to



FARM MODELS
Yields From Husbandry (kg/ha)1/                                   Areas (ha) ------------=
All Models                     Model 1            Model 2           Model 3          Model 4
Year O    Year 5               Year O  Year 5    Year O  Year 5   Year O  Year 5  Year O  Year 5
Sorghum                 400      600                   2.68   2.60        3.00   3.00         2.70  2.70       3.00  2.90
Millet                   350     550                   1.15   1.00        1.15   1.00         1.20  1.00       1.00  1.00
Maize                   700      950                   0.32   0.40        0.10   0.20         0.32  0.45       0.30  0.50
Paddy                   650      900                   0.10   0.10        0.10   0.15         0.15  0.20       0.15  0.20
Groundnuts3/            500      750                   0.20   0.30        0.40   0.60         0.10  0.10       0.15  0.25
Cotton                  600      750                   1.14   1.40         -       -           -     -         0.28  0.50
Cowpeas 4/              250      350                  (0.50) (0.60)      (0.50) (0.60)       (0.50)(0.60)     (0.50)(0.60)
Yams                   5500    6500                                                           0.55  0.75
TOTAL FARM                                             5.59   5.80        4.75   4.95         5.02  5.20       4.88  5.35
Co
1/  Without fertilizer.  Yields with fertilizer at Year 5 are:  Sorghum - 1,000 kg/ha; groundnuts and cotton - 1,200
kg/ha.
2/  Year 5 means the positîon OC an. individual farmer after S years.  In PY5, only some project farmers will have
reached this level.
3/  Groundnuts yields -or model 2 are. Year 0 - 550 kg/ha; Year 5   800 kg/ha.
4/ Intercropped with millet and sorghum.



- 29 -
600 kg/ha; if in addition 100 kg/ha of NPK (14-23-14) is applied, yields
increase to 1,000 kg/ha. These results will form the basis of extension
recommendations, together with greater use of cowpeas in mixed cropping
stands.
5.05      Millet is also an important subsistence crop in the ORD, usually
grown in association with sorghum and cowpeas.  There is, at the present time,
very little research on millet, which is a fairly drought-resistant plant able
to grow on relatively poor soils. Average field yields vary from 400 kg/ha to
700 kg/ha given optimal conditions, carefully applied cultural practices, and
fertilizer use. Research yields reach 1,800 to 2,000 kg/ha. IRAT has so far
bred only one improved variety - SRM P5, and is continuing research on other
varieties, in particular a dwarf species derived by radiation treatment of the
Upper Volta Sala specie. Increased yields under the project will follow from
the same extension recommendations as for sorghum.
5.06      Maize.  Climate and soil conditions are favorable for maize growing
in the southern half of the ORD. Production increases in the medium-term will
result from higher yields rather than larger areas sown. IRAT's active maize
research program has resulted in several very promising hybrid varieties.
IRAT 80 and IRAT 100 grown with fertilizers can yield 2.5 to 3 tons/ha at farm
level, and 6 tons/ha at research stations. Massayomba, a variety obtaîned by
selection from local species, yields 3.4 tons/ha with fertilizer. The tradi-
tional farmer, using local varieties and obtaining 700 kg/ha, should be able
to increase this to 950 kg/ha, without using fertilizer, simply by adopting
improved cultural practices.
5.07      Rice yields vary greatly depending on the efficient control of
water in bottomland areas. Average yields are about 650 kg/ha in unimproved
swamps, with 900 kg/ha if better cultural practices were followed. The high
level of activity in the field of rice research has resulted in many varieties
suitable for extension. The most widespread are Durado, Gambiaka, Sintane,
Siofor and IRAT 10; IRAT's research station yields are between 2 and 3 tons/ha.
Despite these good research results, rice development has been slow in the
ORD. Farmers consider rice a luxury product and eat it only occasionally.
Furthermore, the lack of population pressure on rainfed, agricultural uplands
means that little swampland is cultivated. For these and other reasons, no
great emphasis will be placed on paddy production under the project.
Other Crops
5.08      Cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata) are mostly grown in association with
cereals. There are two varieties - the black-grained N70 which is favored
for eating, and the white-grained 8863. Yields in pure stands can reach
1,000 kg/ha given good cultural practices, fertilizer use, insect contral,
and particularly treatment of the crop before storage. Mixed cropping
yields without these practices are about 250 kg/ha. Using better husbandry
alone, no improvement of these yields above 350 kg/ha is forecast under the
project, as few farmers are prepared to use fertilizers nor, more particu-
larly, to spray a crop regarded as strictly secondary. In the absence of
such practices, the project must concentrate on encouraging better storage.
Effective control of insect pests can be attained with Actellic, an insec-
ticide already well known by the farmers and used by them on cereals.



- 30 -
5.09      Groundnuts.  Although a major industrial cash crop in some Sahelian
countries, groundnuts are only a subsistence crop in the ORD. Nearly all
farmers grow them, but often the plots are very small. Larger plots, of 0.35
to 0.5 ha, are confined to more favorable areas with lighter soils - mainly in
the central-east of the ORD. Cultural practices are generally poor, and best
yields (650 to 700 kg/ha) do not reflect the potential of these areas
suitable for groundnuts. Varieties grown, in addition to local species, are
RMP12 (150 day cycle), GOA (140 days), and TE3 (90 days). Seed dressing,
better population, more frequent weeding and phosphatic fertilizer should
increase yields to 1,400 kg/ha and more in the favorable areas.
5.10      Rootcrops grown in the ORD, particularly in the south, are in order
of importance: yams, sweet potatoes, cassava, taros and fabirama. Research
on rootcrops is now yielding its first fruits, and an inventory of local
varieties is being undertaken. An IRAT yam specialist has been stationed in
Upper Volta since mid-1979. The IRAT station at Bobo-Dioulasso has during the
last years been collecting basic data in the Bougouriba area, and a detailed
report was published in mid-1980 and is in the Project File. This report
covers the intensive cultivation of yams, particularly in a roughly triangular
zone between the villages of Loropeni, Dipeo and Ouo. Outside this zone,
production is far less concentrated. Average yields are low - varying between
3 and 6 tons/ha above 1 ton retained for seed multiplication. The IRAT study
has also found that yams are being harvested too early, resulting in later
storage problems, as well as a yield loss compared to a later harvesting date.
This will be the principal extension recommendation. Yam production, despite
needing a heavy labor input, is profitable and the farmers in the favorable
areas can be expected to increase production given adequate roads and marketing
outlets. Demand will remain seasonal.
5.11      Cotton.  Cotton production in the ORD has increased from 132 tons in
1963/64 to 4,600 tons in 1979/80, at which level it represented some 7% of
national production; 2,670 tons of this increase took place during the first
project, with yields increasing by 71%. Under the first project, the area
under cultivation increased from 4,900 ha to 7,000 ha, and average yields from
380 kg/ha to over 600 kg/ha. The rapid progress is due (a) to effective
technical support from the ORD and SOFITEX; and (b) to assured marketing
arrangements and provision of inputs on credit. The producer price relative
to other crops has varied during the period but currently proviaes a reason-
able incentive to cotton growers, even though the cotton price bears the cost
of taxes and input subsidies. Cotton growing has until recently been con-
centrated in the north (Dano-Dissin) but is now also spreading to the south
(Gaoua-Batie). Only two varieties are grown: BJA (MK3) in the north, and
Coder (SR7 F4) elsewhere.
5.12      Cotton can be contrasted with all the other crops in the ORD,
for the greater attention given to good cultural practices, and the higher use
of inputs. Cultural practices are better in the north than in the south where
the crop is newer. Because of this, yields vary from 300 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha
in the ORD, with an average of 600 kg/ha. Some 60% of producers currently
use 105 kg/ha of NPK fertilizer, compared to 70 kg/ha in 1978/79. Correct
spraying practices are also being adopted by more farmers. Cotton leads the
crop rotation cycle, giving an indirect mineral fertilizer benefit to the
cereal crops that follow -- usually millet and sorghum.



- 31 -
Crop Recommendations
5.13      Crop development proposals are based on the different character-
istics of the four models in the light of available research data in Upper
Volta and abroad discussed above, complemented by the experience of agricul-
tural specialists familiar with the area. The proposals do not involve any
drastic changes in technology, nor any upheaval in the life of the farming
community. As the recommended changes are relatively small, the yield
responses that can be expected are also modest. Emphasis would be placed on
improving productivity through husbandry by (i) proper plant spacing and
density; (ii) timely and adequate weeding; (iii) crop rotations and legume
inter-cropping; (iv) timely line-planting and in the case of rootcrops later
harvesting; (v) some increase in the use of improved seeds and varieties;
and (vi) anti-erosion bunding. Fertilizer use will, as at present, mainly
be recommended for cotton. By Year 5 fertilizer use in the ORD is expected
to increase only modestly--from 700 tons to 2,000 tons--half the increase
being applied to cotton, 40% to sorghum and 10% on groundnuts. The expected
yield increases based on improvements in husbandry are summarized in the
table on page 28. Where fertilizer is used, further increases are expected:
sorghum to 1,000 kg/ha, and groundnuts and cotton to 1,200 kg/ha. Produc-
tion of participating farmers with the project is expected to rise from 33,000
tons to 46,500 tons of cereals; from 5,000 tons to 9,000 tons of cotton; from
6,000 tons to 9,500 tons of rootcrops; from 2,900 tons to 6,100 tons of
groundnuts (in shell). While the production volumes would be achieved with a
minimum of inputs and improved seeds, their achievement would require a
well-organized extension service. Whilst annual production objectives of
individual crops will be set, the project's success will be judged on the
overall increase, and the project will not attempt to influence farmers
choice of crop-mix except on technical grounds such as rotation.
5.14      Crop recommendations for cereals would concentrate upon improving
the seeding rate, to increase the current very poor density. Any recommenda-
tions to use selected seeds would be made on a very cautious basis, as the
improvements of general husbandry practices are a pre-condition for obtaining
benefits from improved varieties. Farmers would be encouraged to treat seeds
after harvest, and to undertake at least two weedings.   For groundnuts, in
addition to the general recommendations, attention would be paid to seed
dressing, better population, and some fertilizer use. For cotton, the
project will continue to recommend the current package wnich, modified from
the neighboring West Volta package, has proved successful in the region.
5.15      Recognizing the essentially uniform level of farming practices, the
extension service would not distinguish between different level farmers, but
would concentrate on delivering messages on basic cultural practices, and
following farmers through a five-year cycle. This cycle will be modified as
a function of farmer reactions and research results.  It is premature to
consider what if any advanced interventions it may be possible to test with
the more responsive farmers, as it will be necessary to weigh the potential
benefits against the risk of complicating the extension organization in its



- 32 -
formative years. However, the trials and demonstration section will be made
responsible, via the demonstration units or on selected farmers plots, for
testing items such as the use of fertilizer on hybrid maize, or spraying of
improved cowpeas. Depending on results, some of these may be introduced in
the extension package, and possibly directed at more advanced farmers.
Livestock
5.16      As under the first project, the livestock service would concentrate
on reducing parasitic infestation of calves and also adults, and small stock,
and improving their protection against common diseases. Calf mortality in the
taurin herd is expected to decrease from 15 to 10%, resulting in an increase
in the weaning rate of two points to 57%. The comparative figures for
the Zebu herd are a drop in mortality from 30 to 23%, and an increase in
weaning of two points to 59%. Similar results are forecast for small stock.
These developments would allow a 13% increase in the taurin kg offtake rate
from 24% to 27%.
5.17      In addition to increasing the use of animal traction in crop
production, the agriculture extension and livestock services would encourage
farmers to adopt basic animal husbandry techniques and integrate livestock
into the farming systems. The livestock service would encourage where
possible the use of by-products for feeding, castrations to improve the
herd, manure use, and the fattening of old draft animals before sale.
Benefits from this program, which is pilot in nature, are likely to mature
slowly and have not been estimated, but a start must be made and, certainly,
the greater use of manure should not be difficult to achieve.
VI. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND
COST RECOVERY
Markets and Prices
6.01      At full development (PY5), project-induced production, before seed
needs are deducted, would consist of 14,300 tons of cereals (mainly sorghum
and millet), 4,000 tons of cotton, 2,700 tons of rootcrops (mainly yams),
2,800 tons of groundnuts, 1,200 tons of cowpeas, and 230 tons of meat.
Cereals production would be home consumed, or sold within Upper Volta through
official channels, private traders or local markets.  Cotton would be exported              -
through the well functioning market organization of SOFITEX. The increase in
rootcrops production, for which there is a healthy demand, would be sold in
Upper Volta and Ivory Coast through private traders able to reach the area
through improved roads. Groundnuts would be consumed within the ORD area, or
sold via private traders to the official purchaser, the Price Stabilization
Fund. Cowpeas would be home consumed or sold in local markets.
6.02      According to a recent FAO forecast, foodcrop production (sorghum,
millet, maize, rice), which did not exceed 1.3 million tons in the past few
years, would have to rise to 1.5 million tons by 1985 and 1.8 million tons



- 33 -
by 1990 to meet expected demand. Although these estimates may overstate the
problem, future demand is likely to grow at least as rapidly as population,
whereas output, if past trends continue, will lag behind. Therefore, chances
are that food deficits will occur not only in years with inadequate rainfall
and that dependence on imported food will increase. The project would help
reduce these potential deficits, especially in normal years.
6.03      Overall, prevailing prices for the main crops are satisfactory
(at present input subsidy levels), and are expected to remain so:
Assumed
farmer price
CFAF/kg
White sorghum                               50
Millet                                      50
Maize                                       50
Red sorghum                                 50
Paddy                                       60
Cowpeas                                     50
Groundnuts (shelled)                        72
Seed cotton                                 53
Yams                                        50
6.04      Under the first project, marketing institutions were adequate for
the production volumes: cotton being served by SOFITEX while local markets,
private traders, the ORD, and OFNACER purchased cereals. This institutional
adequacy has not, however, been tested on the volumes that are forecast to
be forthcoming under the second project. Roads were non-existent or inade-
quate at the start of the first project, but the situation is now much
improved and further feeder roads are to be built during the implementation
period of the second project. Constraints to efficient marketing, there-
fore, are (i) the organizational efficiency of, and funding available to
OFNACER, which through direct purchases and a system of licensed traders, is
supposed to ensure that farmers throughout the country can readily place
their produce at official prices; and (ii) the road network being suffi-
ciently maintained and increased to allow traders to readily traverse the
area. In order to improve its efficiency, OFNACER is receiving a consider-
able quantity of external aid funds and technical assistance. Maintenance
and extension of the roads in the area are included in the Second Feeder
Roads and the proposed Fourth Highway projects, scheduled for consideration
by the Executive Directors in FY81. As a further precaution in this key
area, the ORD supply and credit service will be provided with a new truck to
supplement two existing ORD trucks, and will be charged with watching for
marketing difficulties and proposing solutions to problem areas. Some
project funds are reserved for implementing such solutions. Whereas any
direct purchases by the ORD of produce is to be avoided, it may be for
example, that provision, at a small fee, of truck transport to farmers or



- 34 -
farmers groups who would accompany their produce to market ln Bobo-Dioulasso,
would unblock bottlenecks, give farmers a continuing incentive to produce,
and, by creating a continuity of supply in reasonable volumes, encourage
traders to service the region.
Farm Incomes
6.05      There are currently almost no non-farm employment opportunities
available to the farm population in the region, and few people migrate
elsewhere in search of work.  Under the project, each participating family
would cultivate 5 to 6 ha of land. Mixed cropping would predominate.
Family labor would be sufficient to meet expected requirements, taking into
account the traditional sharing of work during peak periods, when the
additional demands will be greatest. This aspect will be monitored by the
monitoring section during project execution. Indicative farm budgets have
been prepared for each of the four farm models, and results are summarized
at Annex 7.  Family incomes of farmers reaching the fifth year of adopting
improved techniques would be 59 to 82% higher than the pre-project position.
Such incomes would range from CFAF 114,000 (US$543) to CFAF 308,000 (US$1,467)
compared with present incomes CFAF 66,000 (US$314) and CFAF 183,000 (US$871).
If these targets are achieved, per head income in the best case would still be
lower than the present national per head income (US$180). Labor requirements
would increase considerably in all cases, but the return per manday of effort
would also increase, especially at the margin, to some CFAF 275/day. This
50% increase over current returns is considered an adequate inducement for
adoption of improved techniques, especially as it is not based on assumptions
of high input use and the associated risks of this. Farmers' cash surpluses
would rise considerably.
Financial Implications for Government
6.06      An illustrative Government cash flow is given in Annex 8.  From
the end of the implementation period, the annual deficit (line 12) would be
CFAF 160 million (US$760,000).  This is a "worst case" estimate of the situa-
tion that would prevail if Government reduced neither subsidies, nor ORD
costs to the level strictly needed to maintain output, but nevertheless
assumes that no increase in post-project production (and hence increased
Government revenue) resulted. This worst case, typical of the situation where
readily taxable cash crops do not form the bulk of project output, presents
budgetary risks for Government. However, it is anticipated that there would
be a need for a third project if this project proved successful since there
would still be much to be done in the region. In these circumstances) this
second project can be said to result in an annual surplus (line 10) of some
CFAF 50 million (US$240,000), and if Governnent eliminates input subsidies,
the annual surplus (line 8) would be about CFAF 115 million (US$550,000),
6.07      The cash flow estimate takes into account the proposed mark-up on
farm inputs and equipment (para 4.19) which would offset the cost of the
supply service. Since there are no taxes on foodcrops, the project would



- 35 -
directly generate Government revenue only on cotton, estimated at CFAF 20/kg
after subsidies on cotton inputs, and possibly livestock, where taxes are
often evaded, and for which therefore no tax receipts are included. But
with the expected increase in farmers' cash incomes, their spending would
increase considerably, and so would revenue from indirect taxation. Although
no data now exist which would permit a precise quantification, an estimate
has been included in the cash flow. This estimate shows that, at full
development, project-induced indirect tax revenue (10% of farmers' incremen-
tal cash income) together with cotton revenue and the small mark-up on
supplies would exceed the cost of the reduced level of ORD services needed
to maintain production.
6.08      As noted, the cash flow surplus would be US$550,000 if subsidies
on inputs were totally eliminated. On national volumes, Government cannot
afford the input subsidies, but it is expected to move cautiously in
reducing them. During negotiations Government agreed that a gradual elimi-
nation in fertilizer subsidies would be initiated. By the second year of
the project, the subsidy would be reduced by 7% of the unsubsidized price
and by the year of project completion, the subsidy will be reduced by 50%
of the subsidy in effect in the fifth year of the project. The effects of
the fertilizer use increase on the price of agricultural products or agri-
cultural production will be the subject of consultation between the Associa-
tion and Government (Section 3.09 of the Credit Agreement).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits
7.01      The proposed project accords with Government's objectives of
raising domestic food production, of increasing exports, and improving
the quality of rural life. The principal direct benefits would be the
increases in annual crop and livestock production (para. 6.01). At PY5
the net value of this production would be about US$9 million. The project
cost per directly benefiting family is US$564 and per inhabitant of the
region, all of whom are affected to some extent, is US$32.
7.02      The project agricultural extension service would directly benefit
22,000 of the 33,000 farm families in the project area, or over 200,000
people, whose present per head incomes of US$30-83 compares with an estimated
absolute poverty level of US$105 (1979). Farm incomes would increase signi-
ficantly (para. 6.05), and improved nutrition and better standards of living
can be expected.  Incremental annual on-farm employment at full development
would be about 7,500 man-years or about 35 days/year for each active adult.
This labor would be provided by project farm families from available leisure
time, currently not used for production because of a lack of adequate rewards
from traditional agriculture or other pursuits.
7.03      The road improvements foreseen in connection with the project
(para. 3.05), the feeder road content of which is included in economic
costs (para. 7.04), would benefit a substantially larger group of people
than the direct beneficiarles. The livestock component would benefit Peul
herdsmen, as well as the farmers included in the 22,000 direct agricultural
beneficiaries. Through technical assistance and training, the project



- 36 -
would improve the capability of Voltaic nationals to operate and manage
development projects, and the forestry and anti-erosion components, though
limited, complement other cautious approaches aimed at establishing valid
future programs to address fundamental problems of fuel needs and soil fer-
tility facing Upper Volta. Project impact would also be felt in other sectors
of the regional economy (construction, handicraft, trade) but these effects
are difficult to quantify with confidence and have been ignored in the
economic analyses.
Economic Rate of Return
7.04      The project's overall economic rate of return is estimated to
be 23%, that of the agricultural component 22%, and that of livestock 33%.
In addition to the economics of the technical packages, these satisfactory
rates reflect (i) a cost-saving approach to all elements of project expendi-
ture; (ii) that being a second phase project, much of the capital infrastruc-
ture is already in place; and (iii) the fact that part of the incremental
labor requirements come from leisure time for which no alternative economie
use is available. At a discount rate of 8%, the assumed opportunity cost of
capital in Upper Volta, the economic net present value of the project is CFAF
3.4 billion (US$16 million). Economic costs and benefits have been valued in
constant average 1981 prices (Annex 9). The main assumptions underlying the
rate of return calculations are:
(a) Incremental Basis: The level of production estimated to
be achieved in 1980/81, under the first project, is assumed
in the economic analysis of the first project (para. 2.16)
to remain constant thereafter making due allowance for
recurring drought conditions. First project economic
costs thereafter are those needed for activities to main-
tain this level of production. These have been calculated
as the economic value of the government contribution to
ongoing first project costs (para. 3.06) together with
estimates for farm input use, labor, and road maintenance.
All costs and benefits above these levels are abscribed to
the second project.
(b)  Project Life:  Twenty years, with full development reached
in PY5.
(c) Project Costs: Estimates are net of taxes but include physi-
cal contingencies. The full cost of all project components
have been included except that the cost of technical assistance
has been reduced by 25% reflecting the estimated net cost of
such assistance to the economy. 80% of the costs of 650 km of
new feeder roads over 5 years, and of the maintenance of all
feeder roads, have been included. Local costs components have
been adjusted to border prices using the standard conversion
factor of 0.874. Incremental farm family labor has been valued
at CFAF 220/man-day, reflecting the lack of employment oppor-
tunities and the current average farm incomes. The observed



- 37 -
market rate for unskilled labor in Upper Volta is CFAF 330/man-
day but in the project area jobs are seldom offered. Project
costs after the end of the disbursement period are estimated as
for the first project - i.e., those necessary to maintain the
level of production achieved: 33% of average ORD operating,
maintenance plus vehicle replacement costs, and 100% of PY5
farm inputs, the credit and distribution service, and road
maintenance costs.
(d) Project Benefits: The incremental output of farmers reached
has been phased in progressively from the first year of
contact. It is assumed that over a three year time period
30% of farmers reached for the first time in a given year do
not continue the following year and must be replaced. Road
user savings and the long term effects of tree planting and
anti-erosion works have not been quantified. Economic prices
for cereals and cowpeas are at import parity based on IBRD
forecasts, for cotton, groundnuts and meat at export parity
based on IBRD forecasts, in both cases with local cost
components adjusted using the standard conversion factor
of 0.874. Prices of yams are based on local farm market
prices adjusted by the standard conversion factor. Incremen-
tal livestock offtake is valued at the parity price for
exports to the Ivory Coast.
Risks and Sensitivity
7.05      There are no unusual technical risks in either the agricultural
nor livestock programs, for which the proposals are simple and have been
tested elsewhere under Bank group projects in Upper Volta (other than
for yams). The main elements of risk are:
(i)  delays in the roads programs which would affect marketing
of surplus production and distribution of inputs; to-
gether with other marketing constraints arising from a
reluctance or inability of OFNACER or private traders to
enter the area;
(ii)  non-use of inputs either due to price rises or to a
breakdown in the delivery system;
(iii) the speed of responsiveness of farmers, especially
in the south to accepting change; and
(iv)  difficulties on the part of government meeting its contri-
bution to ongoing first project, or second project costs.
7.06      These risks would affect the benefit streams.  The agricultural
component's rate of return would drop to 18% if no fertilizers were used,
reflecting the fact that agriculture practices are currently at a tradi-
tional level, and increased production depends more on adoption of labor-
intensive cultural techniques than on input use. On the other hand, the



- 38 -
availability throughout the project area of fertilizers, which farmers can be
expected to use in greater quantities after having adopted better cultural
techniques, provides another incentive for increasing labor use. Given the
improved techniques, the application of fertilizer will yield high incremental
returns/manday. If the farmers uptake rate dropped from 9,000 new farmers to
5,000, the rate of return on the agricultural component would fall to 18%. If
yam production were 50% of that forecasted, the rate of return on the agricul-
tural component would fall to 19%. The other risks also relate to the
benefit streams. To test these and other general risks, switching values
have been used as a measure of sensitivity; these values indicate how far
the variable can differ from its most likely value before the project
becomes economically unacceptable. These tests show that the project would
withstand any one of: (i) a 21% decrease in total benefits; (ii) a 22%
decrease in agricultural benefits; (iii) a 56% reduction in sorghum and
millet benefits; (iv) no benefits from yams; (v)a 27% increase in total
costs; (vi) a 28% increase in agricultural costs; (vii) a 76% rise in the
economic costs of inputs; or (viii) a 70% increase in the economic cost of
family labor. Thus the project remains economically viable under a range of
unfavorable circumstances that may arise.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The following assurances were obtained from Government during
negotiations:
(1)  that the 650 km of existing rural roads would be maintained;
that 650 km of new rural roads would be constructed over
five years and subsequently maintained; that 400 km of national
roads would be rehabilitated and subsequently maintained; and
that the relevant services would consult the ORD annually when
preparing work programs (para. 3.05; section 4.04 of Credit
Agreement);
(2)  that Government would pay the allowances, benefits and
travel expenses of civil servants attached to the project,
and some vehicle operating costs, totalling in 1981 prices
CFAF 85 million/year (para. 3.06; section 3.11 of Credit
Agreement);
(3)  that the project special account would be operated under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 3.19; section
2.02 of Credit Agreement);
(4)  that the ORD and project would continue to use accounting
and auditing procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.23;
section 4.01 and 4.02 of Credit Agreement);
(5)  that the ORD would prepare quarterly, annual, and project
completion reports with a format and content acceptable to
IDA (para. 3.24; section 3.06 of Credit Agreement);



- 39 -
(6)  that five technical assistance staff would be employed with
qualifications and experience and under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.03; section 3.02 of Credit
Agreement);
(7)  that Government would pay adequate allowances to attract
suitably qualified staff to project employment; should the
levels change markedly in real terms, the arrangements for
Government contribution to first project costs may need to
be revised (para. 4.04; section 3.11 of Credit Agreement);
(8) that suitable arrangements would be made for seed production
(para 4.11) and for field trials links with research including
formal annual review meetings with research bodies before
March 31, 1981 (para 4.12; section 3.02(b) of Credit Agreement);
(9) that the separation of the extension and supply services
would be complete by the end of PY1 (paras. 4.06 and 4.17;
section 3.12 of Credit Agreement); and
(10) that an average 5% margin on the unsubsidized cost of supplies would
be introduced in PY2, and increased as necessary to assure full cost
recovery of the service in PY5 (para. 4.19; schedule 2(D) of Credit
Agreement and side letter);
8.02      Condition of effectiveness would be that (i) the project special
account had been opened (para. 3.19; section 5.01 of Credit Agreement); and
(ii) details of the policies and procedures to be agreed with CNCA had been
submitted to IDA for approval (para 4.21).
8.03      With the above assurances and condition, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million).



40 -                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 1
UPPER VOLTA: SECONE BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DiEVELOPMENT PROJECT
F'ROJECT COSTS IN CFAF '000
INVESTMENTS
1            2            3             4            5       TOTALS
PHYS CONT FACTOR   GENL               10           10           10            10           10
F'HYS CONT FACTOR   CONST            15            15           15            15           15
FRICE cONT FACTOR                      9           18           26            35           44
COtNSTRUCI ION
EXTIENSION                        24375         19875         5800                                   50050
TRAINING                           6250                                                                6250
SUPPLY S CREDIT' SERVICE          16125         16125        12500         12500         9000         66250
LIVESTOCK                         33475         29125         4000          4000         3600        74200
TREE-FLANTING                      1645                                                                1645
Hl-:ADOUARTERS                    22400         26150                                                48550
MONITORING                         2900          2175                                                 5075
BASE CtiSTS                      107170         93450        22300        16500         12600       252020
PHYS CONTINGENCIES                16076         14018         3345          2475         1890        37803
F'RICE CONTINGENCIES              11092         19344         6668          6641         6376        50121
TOTAL COSTS                      134338        126812        32313        25616         20866       339944
VEHICLES
EXTENSION                         23280                                   23280                      46560
TRAINING                           2200                                    2200                        4400
SUFFLY & CREDIT SERVICE            8640                                    2640                      112BO
1IVESTOCK                          9000                                    5400                      14400
TREE-FLANTING                      2800                                     1800                       4600
HEADGUARTERS                      14640                                   16840                      31480
MONITORING                          700                                                                 700
BASE COSTS                        61260                                   52160                     113420
PHYS CONTINGENCIES                 6126                                    5216                      11342
FRICE CONTINGENCIES                6065                                   20082                      26146
TOTAL COSTS                       73451                                   77458                     150908
SUNDRY EOUIPMENT
EXTENSION                          1425                                                               1425
TRAINING                           7900                                                               7900
SUF'PLY & CREDIT SERVICE           4000                                                               4000
LIVESTOCK                          8490           520          820         5970           520        16320
TREE-PLANTING                      1475                                                               1475
HEADOUARTERS                       2000                                                               2000
MONITORING                         1500                                                                1500
-BASE-CtESTS                      26790           520           820         5970          520         34620
PHYS CONTINGENCIES                 2679            52           82           597           52         3462
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                2652           103          235         2298           252         5540
TOTAL COSTS                       32121           675         1137         8865           824        43622
INF'UTS
FARM EGUIF'MENT                   20866        23607         26810        30409         34513       136205
OXEN                              14800         16960        19440        22240         24000        97440
INC AGRICULTURAL INPUTS           52310        52575         53840        65565         63620       287910
INC LIVESTOCK INPUTS               8165          1824         2039                        512        12540
BASE COSTS                        96141        94966        102129       118214        122645       534095
PRICE CONTINGENCIES               24791        39036         50729        72343         94430       281329
TOTAL COSTS                      120932       134002        152858       190557        217075       8I5424
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
BASE COSTS                       291361       188936        125249       192844        135765       934155
FHYS CONTINGENCIES                24881         14070         3427         8288          1942        52607
PRICE CONTINGENCIES               44600         58453        57631       101364        101057       363136
TOTAL COTS                      360842       261489        186307       302496        238764      1349898
FILE NOTLEY/BOU2/COSTS SBR 310 320



8(1843 i
-41 -                                        TA4ILE 2
UFJI~'R VOLTA. 1400C(N0 £lHUGOURIJRA AGRIOULIURAL DEVELOPMENT F'R0J001
FIO~(JECf 0O8TS IN CFAr '000
UFlI(1ÀAVNi CO818 ANI, 0RAN5 VIITAI S
23                  4             O       10OTA08
081. 1)8  Fh) fi)i  <118).         10            10            10             0 
CONI 01)   OU <R                   9            [8           216           30 F          4 4
EN [80111                       121880        113420       .106315        1 032yi      100945        5457,1.)
TOÀAININO                           1              /0 11    ~5  I (              l 15 17                 88B28
SUPP1LY & C0E4011 SERVICE          )'22          t350          1412           430         14730         69380
LIVE 8 rCK                         313 i          3235 32              132               813,4                6675
18(1 FLANIiNcO                      9 140         9 )40        91 4<         9140          9140         45700
800118)ART1R80                     121980        L`980         j 2980       12980         J 2980        64900
MON 1 TOR 1 N                       70l           109 5         70l            89 79                    354 75
B8s8' 001)19                      17832         J1085         t64590      Il62160        15973'0       8358901
PH00, C08f LNI,ENIl1O8             17833         17 109        16459        1621          193           83589
):.j3')  OONITN(Ii<NCLES              5 4        3872,         4710 7       6432          77309        238343
i DTA) C00DS10                  2-13832        222068        2281 ~~        40808       253012       1 157822
14008100)A 881110E
rRAINING                           23800        23800          9000          9000          9000         74600
S28P) Y & CRE41111 SERV I Cl',     21000         21.000        21000        21000         21000        105000
1i f01SiOCK                                                     9000                                     9000
1RE4 8PLÀN11NI                      1750          1750                        1050                       4550
HEADIî0ARTERS                      65500         65500         65500        65800         45500        327500
8118TIO81N0                         6400          3200         13200         6400          3200         32400
40A8E C0818                       118450        115250       117700        102950         98700        553050
F'HYS CONTINGENCIES                11845         11525         11770        10295          9870         55305
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                11727         22820        3i3662        39636         47771        155615
10T8< 00818S                      142022       149595        :1632.32      152881        156341       763970
VEHICILE 0F8S
EXIENSiON                          10000         10000         10000        10000         10000         50000
HEAIIOUARTERS                      10000         10000         10000        10000         10000         50000
BAS8E 00818                        20000         20000        20000         20000         20000        100000
PHYS CONTINGENCIES                  2000          2000          2000         2000          2000         10000
F'RICE CONTINOENCIE8                1980          3960          5720         7700          9680         29040
TOTAL C08T8                        23980         25960        27720         29700         31680        139040
OTHER OP COSTS
EXTENSION                           5610          5610          5610         5610          5610         28050
TRAINING0                           6500          6500          7100         7100          7100         34300
8UP88LY & OREIIIT SERVICE           8000         .5000          8000         5000          5000         20000
LIVESTOCK                           5800          8900          6000         6100          6200         30000
TREE-PLANTING                       2350          1960          1470         1480          1490          8750
HEA00VIARTERS                      11320         11320         12320        12400         12400         59760
MIONITORING                         2000          1000          1000          1300         1000          6300
BASE C0818                         38580         37290         38500        38990         36800        192160
PHYS CONTINGENCIES                  3858          3729          3850         3899          3880         19216
PRICE CONTINGENOIES                 3819          7383         11011        15011         I18779        56004
TOTAL COSTS                        46257         48402         53361        57900         61459        267380
TOTAL OP C0STS
BASE 00818                        355355        343625       340790        32'4100       317230       1681100
PHYS CONTINGENCIES                 35536         34363         34079        32410         31723        168110
PRI0E CONTINGENCIES                35180         68038         97466       124779        153539        479002
TOTAL C08TS                       426071        446025       47'2335       481289        502492       2328212
GRAND TOTALS
BASE 0O818                        646716        532'561      466039        516944        452995       2615255
PHY18 CONTINOENCIES                60416         48432         37506        40698         33665        220717
PRI0E CONTINGENCIES                79780        126521        155097       226143        254597        842138
TOTAL CO8TS                       786912        707514       658642        783780        741257       3678110
FILE NOTLEY/60U2/COSTS S1BR 310 322



-42-
ANNEX 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Forecast IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal   Semester    Disbursements  Cumulative   Disbursements  Cumulative
Year        ending     -       SDR millions------   ----- US$ millions-
1980/81      June 1981         0.5             0.5           0.6             0.6
1981/82      Dec. 1981         1.1             1.6           1.4             2.0
June 1982        1.2             2.8           1.6             3.6
1982/83      Dec. 1982         1.2             4.0           1.6             5.2
June 1983        1.3             5.3           1.6             6.8
1983/84      Dec. 1983         1.1             6.4           1.5             8.3
June 1984        1.1             7.5           1.4             9.7
1984/85      Dec. 1984         1.3             8.8           1.6            11.3
June 1985        1.3            10.1           1.7            13.0
1985/86      Dec. 1985         1.1            11.2           1.5            14.5
June 1986        1.0            12.2           1.3            15.7
1986/87      Dec. 1986         0.2            12.4           0.3            16.0



Annex 3
- 43 -
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORD of the Bougouriba - Proposed Organization Chart
Secretary-Gene rai
Ministry of Rural Development
ORD Board
of 
Directors
ORDDiarector
i nca                                             Monitoring
Aganimai                                             and
cn~~~~~~e
_ --
_-
CooDreintor:                          
>-       Accounting Support                                                             Rurage    Natonnl
<                       Agrieullural Fretr                      Yut                    Ariuiu       a nd
_                                             a~~~~~~~~Dprm nt   Crd triigCet
r)im                                                                  l                    Civil
01
North and South~~SE                                                             Bnk 
S    ome finance provide d    7ySPtororec: for defSnedecctivitoes
E:| ian     ude ecnSupport  E     A roecuturar|  Aana                                                                 - | R79l
(EPrdctoxtPrdctonsioiiln)                                                                                   xtnio 
O ! t | W~~~~~~~~~orestry                                       Yo Meth       o       d Aiulua
4 North ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ank    rSouh|-  
R   |Vii eoe ertion  Chiefs:   fro   Projject
SOmeratinance prvie  byPoectfors defne a0SbSctorivitiû0Zoes
E:Fnne  Sundert Seon  Edcto  Pr|c                                                                        VrdBn         19



_ 44 _                                                       Anrnex 4
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUCOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual and Proposed Staffing
Present Situation                                   Second Project
Notes         Total    Non-Project         Project       PY1      PY2    PY3    PY4         PY'>
1. AGRICULTURE
Extension                                                                                                                          2
Region chiefs                                  2                            2            2        2        2       2        2  CS
Sector chiefs                                  7                            7            7         7       7       7        7  CS
Deputies and
Subsector chiefs                2             29                           29
Agriculturalists                                                                      2        2       2        2        2  CS(New)
CTA                                                                                   3        3       3        3        3  CS(New)
ATAS                                                                                  5        5       5        5        3i CS(New)
Contractual                                                                          17       13      10      10        10
Extension agents                             119                          119          115      111     107      103      101)
Clerks                                         9                            9            8        8        8       8        il
Laborers                                       8             8
Drivers                                        9                            9            9        9        9       9        9
Topographer                     3              1                            1            1        1        1       1        1.
Laborers                                                                                 2         2       2       2        2
Rice Extension                                8T 3            8            176          171       163    T       W5 
Section chiefs                  4              1                            1
Extension workers                              8                            8            7        3
Demonstrations
Section chiefs                                                                           1         1       1       1        1  CS
Asst - Stations                                1                            1            1        1        1       1        l
Asst - farmers sites                                                                     l        1        1       l        1
FAO trials                                     4                            4            4        4        4       4        4
Drivers                                        2                            2            1         1       1       l        :l
Laborers                                      14                           14           12       10        8       6        4
Watchmen                                       2                            2            2        2        2       2        2
23                           2                     20 To   18      16        14
Seeds
Section chief                                                                            l        1        1       1        1  CS
Assistant                                                                                1         i       1       1        l
Farm heads                                     1                            1            1         1       1       1        l
T                            T            T3       3       T       T 
Animal Traction
Section chief                                 l                            1            1        1        1       1        1  CS
Assistant                                     1                            1            1         1       1       ;        1
Animal trainers                               2            2                            2         2       2       2        2
Shepherd                                      2            1               l            1        1        1       1        1
Drivers                                       1                            1            1        1        1       1        :
Volunteer                                     1            1
8           4                4           6         6       6       6
Vegetables                                    2            2               -           -        -       -       -         -
Women's extension               5            19            1              18
Head of agricultural
production                             1                            1            l        1        l       l        1  CS
Driver                                        1                            1            1        1        1       i        1
Total - Agriculture                                248          15              233          211      197     185     179      t7 
2.  TRAINING
Training advisor                                                                         1         1                            E
Training specialist                            1                            1            1         1       1       1        1  CS
Audio-visual spec.                                                                       1         1       1       1        i
Typist                                                                                   1         1       1       1        1
Driver                                         1                            1
2                            2           5         5       T       4         4
Rural Institutions                             5            5
Press and Rural Radio                          2            2
Village groups extension                       1            1
Total - Training          ,                         10            8               2            5        S       7                 T
3. SUPPLY & CREDIT SERVICE
Head of service                                1                            1            1         1       1       1        1
Region controllers                                                                       2         2       2       2        2
Field officers                   6             1                            1            6         8       9      10       1O
Central storekeeper                            1                            1            l         1       1       1        l
Typist                                         1                            1            1         1       1       1        1
Credit officer                                 1                            1            1         1       1       1        1
Supplies acoountant                        .   1                            1            1         1       1       1        1
Driver                                         3                             3            3        3       3       3         3
Watchnan                                       4                             4           3         3       3       3        3
Laborers                                       4            4
r7-          T 41 3 119                             1      22      T5      213-



-45-                                                  ANNEX 4
4.  ANIMAL PRODUCTION                                                                                               (count 2)
Servicethief                      ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~1 1                       i                i       1        1 Cs
Sector chiefs                                 1                           1            2        2       2       2        2  CS
Post  chiefs                                  8                            8           9        9       9       9        9CS
Extension agents                              8                           8           10       10      10      10       10
Vaccinatorsgn                                                             5            5        5       5       5
Clerks                                        2                           2            1        1       1       1        1
Typits                                        1                                                         1 i  1  1        1
Laborers                                      2                            2           2        2       2       2        2
Drivers                                       4                            4           3        3       3       3        3
5. TREE PLANTING
Junior agents                                                                          8        8       8       8        8 CS(New).
Extension agent                               1                            1
Laborers                                      2            2                           6        6       6       6         6
Watchmen - greenbelt                                                       _           4        4       4       4         4
3           2               1          18       18      18      18        18
v                    6.  ORD HEADQUARTERS
Director                                      1                            1           1        1       1       1        1CS
Technical Director                            1                            1           1        1       1       1        1   E
Cotton specialist                             1                           1            1        1       1       1        1   E
Financial co-
ordinator                                                                            1        1       1       1        1   E
Secretaries                                   4                            4           4        4       4       4        4
Personnel                                     2                            2           2        2       2       2        2 (ICS)
Drivers                                       3                            3           4        4       4       4        4
Nurse                                         1                            1           1        1       1       1        1
Cooks                                         2            2
Watchmen                                      2                            2           2        2       2       2         2
Laborers                                      6            6
23           8              15           17       17      17     r7        17
Accounting:
Management Accountant                        1                            1           1        1       1       1        1
Accountant                                   1                           1            1        1       1       1        1
Bookkeeper                                   3                           3            3        3       3       3        3
Cashier                                      1                           1            1        1       1       1        1
Typist                                       1                           1            1        1       1       1        1
Drivers                                      1                            1           1        1       1       1        1
Watchmen                                     2                            2           2        2       2       2        2
17                          17           170      17      17      17       1
Total - HQ                                         33           8              25           27       27      27      2S       27
Monitoring:
Section chief                                                                         1        1       1       1        l  CS
C.lerks                                                                               4        4       4       4        4
Chief Enumerator                                                                      1                1        1
Enumerators                                  6                           6            7        7       7       7        7
6                           6           313     13      13      13       13
SUB-TOTALS                                       349           37             312         327      315     303    298        293
OF WIIICH
Existing CS                29       29      29      29       29
New CS                     18       18      18      18       18
Contractuals              276      264    253    248        243
Expatriates                 4        4       4       4        4
TOTAL                       327      315    303    298        293
Garage                         7             32            4             28
Construiction                  8             21                          21
Roads                          9             59                          59
Bottomlands                   10             il                           l
Wells                         il             42            4              38
Young Farmer Training         12             50           50
215          58             157
TOTAL ORD                                        564           95             469
m                   NOTES:
1.  Financed by project or by government contribution to ongoing works of first project
2.  CS - Civil Servant; E = Expatriate
3.  From bottomlands team; to work on anti-erosion sites
4.  No new bottomland development financed
5.  Women's extension workers were irregularly financed by first project; no proposals made at preparatlon for
their activities.
6.  To be retrained extension workers
7.  In relation to project vehicles, government contribution to ongoing cost of first project, or to costs of
second project, will cover vehicle operating costs.  In second project costings, these costs are at a fixed
rate/vehicle.
8.  Second project will finance building costa some of which will be by force account.
9.  Roads brigade to pass to SERS; finance under Second Feeder Roads project.
10.  Bottomlands financed under RDF2; continuation not proposed.
11.  Some wells to be financed under second project; otherwise wells will be financed by USAID.
12.  Financed under second education project



- 46 -                                    ANNEX 5
UF'l:ER VULTA
SECOND BUUGOUR I BA A{3R ICULTURAL. DEVELOF'MENT PROJECT
INCREEMENTAL AGRICULTURAL. PRODlJCTION
1            2            3            4        5-20
,. ~ ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .. .....
INCR. FERT. USE <M.T.3
CEREALS - 14-23.14                  50          100           150          250          350
CEREALS   UREA                      25           50            75          125          175
COTTON   14.23.14                  165          290.         415          565           665
COTTON - UREA                        5            15          25            35           45
GROUNDNUTS - NPK/UREA               15           30            55           a5          120
INCR. PROD. WITHOUT
FERTILIZER USE (M.T.)
SORGHUM                           1073         2337         3872         5474         7581
MILLET                             436          877         1356          1770         2255
MAIZE                              269          611         1026          1503        2204
RICE (PADDY)                       195          299          552           726          908
GROUNDNUTS (UNSHELLED)             219          646          1156         1681         2461
COWPEAS                            182          312          550           828         1234
COTTON                             375          718         1135          1602         2261
YAMS                               546          762          1323         1986         2727
EFFECT OF FERT. (M.T.)
SORGHUM                            200          400          600          1000         1400
COTTON                             407          743         1078         1.472         1750
GROUNDNUTS (UNSHELLED)              48           96           177          273          386
INCR. PRODUCTION WITH
FERTILIZER USE (M.T.)
SORGHUM                           1273         2737         4472          6474         8981
MILLET                             436          877          1356         1770         2255
MAIZE                              269          611         1026          1503        2204
RICE (PADDY)                       195          299           552          726          908
GROUNDINUTS (UNSHELLED)            267          743          1333         1954         2846
COWPEAS                            182          312          550           828         1234
COTTON                             782         1460         2213         3074          4011
YAMS                               546          762         1323          1986         2727
FERTILIZER F'ARAMETERS
1 TON NPK PRODUCES 2.3 TONS OF SORGHUM
1 TON UREA PRODUCES 3.4 TONS OF SORGHUM
1 TON NPK PRODUCES 2.33 TONS 0F COTTON
1 TON UREA PRODUCES 4.4 TONS 0F COTTON
1 TON NPK OR UREA PRODUCES 3.21 TONS OF GROUNDNUTS
FILE NOTLEY/BOU2/AGR SBR 12



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Returns per ha and per Man-day
Costs
Gross      Storage      Net       Price      Value   Seeds   Tnsecticides    Tools &          Net Value         Man-days          Net Value
Yield      Losses Z   Yield                                                      Misc.         per ha                           per man-dy
--CFAF---------------------------
Sorghum
w/o project              400         15      kg 340   CFAF 50/kg   17,000    600               150         1,000         15,250              75          0FAF203
PY5                      600                    510                  25,500    600             150         1,000         23,750             102               233
Millet
W/O project              350         15         298.        50       14,900    500             150         1,000         13,250              72              1.84
PY5                      550                    468                  23,400    500             150         1,000         21,750              94              231
Maize
w/o project              700         15         595         50       29,750  1,250             150         1,000         27,350              97              282
PY5                      950                    807                  40,350  1,250             150         1,000         37,950             122              311
Groundnuta (model I)>
w/o project              550          5         523         54       28,242  5,400              -    .    1,000          21,842              94              232
PY5                      800                    760                  41,040  5,400                         1,000         34,640             119              291       -
Paddy
w/o project              650         10         585         60       35,100  3,600              -          1,000         30,500              91              335
PY5                      900                    810                  48,600  3,600                         1,000         44,000             126              349
Yams
w/o project            5,500          -       5,500         50      275,000 50,000              -          1,000        224,000             220            1,018
PY5                    6,500                  6,500                 325,000 50,000                         1,000        274,000            258             1,062
Cotton w/o fertilizer
w/o project              600          3         582         53       30,846    -            2,300          1,000         27,546              97              284
PY5                      750                    727                  38,531    -            2,700          1,000         34,831            126               276
Cotton w/fertilizer                                                           Fertilizer
w/oproject               900          3         873                  46,269  6,800          2,300          1,000         36,169              99              365
PY5                    1,200                  1,164                  61,692  8,000          2,700          1,000         49,992            133               375



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets (Without Fertilizer)
Model I   Model II   Model III   Model IV
CFAF '000              PYO  PY5  PYO  PY5   PYO  PY5    PYO  PY5
1.   Value of production
after losses           107  164   78  128   221  357        85  144
2.   Costs (excluding
fertilizers)            14   16   12   14    38   49        14   15
3.   Family income
before consumption
and taxes               93  148   66  114   183  308        71  129
4.   Family consumption
and taxes               85   86   65   87   155  157        70   87
5.   Cash surplus             8   62    1   27    28  151          1   42
6.   Man-days required    512  703  420  574   527  724    491  728
7.   Income/man-day
(CFAF)                 182  211  157  199   347  425    145  177
8.   Incremental income
(CFAF-000)                   55         48         125            58
9.   Incremental man-days         191        154         197          237
10.  Incremental income/
man-day (CFAF)              288        312          634          245



- 49 -                                          Annex 8
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Government Cash Flow in CFAF Millions
Years:       1       2      3       4       5      6       7       8      9      10      20     50
CASH INFLOW
1.  IDA Creditl-                  621    524    454    537    464
2.  15% Mark-up on supplies        -       30      50    100    100    100    100    100    100   100    100    100
3.  Cotton Revenue 2/               14     27      50      80     80      80      80     80      80    80      80      80
4.  Indirect taxes on
project generated
Cash Incomes 3/              25      50     75    100    100    100    100    100    100   100    100    100
5.  Total Inflow                  660    631    629    817    744    280    280    280    280   280    280    280
CASH OUTFLOW
6. Project and post-project
costs 1/ 4/ 7/              666    573    506    593    524    140    140    140    140   140    140    140
7.  IDA Debt Service                 5     10      15     20      25      25      25     25      25    25      55    100
8.  NET SURPLUS BEFORE
FOODCROP SUBSIDIES         (11)      48    108    204    195    115    115    115    115   115           85     40
9.  Input Subsidies 5/              10     20      30      45     65      65      65     65      65    65      65      65
10. NET SURPLUS AFTER
FOODCROP SUBSIDIES         (21)      28     78    159    130       50      50      50     50    50       20    (25)
11.  Post-project costs if not
reduced Odditional to
line 6) -                                                         210    210    210    210   210    210    210
12. NET SURPLUS (DEFICIT)
IF NO REDUCTION IN
POST-PROJECT COSTS         (21)    28      78      159    130   (160)  (160)  (160)  (160) (160)   (190)  (235)
1/  Excluding financing of supplies, which is self-balancing; includes 15% mark-up on supplies and administra-
tive cost of supply and credit service.  In constant prices except that for IDA Credit and Debt Service,
and year 1-5 project costs.
2/  CFAF 20/kg on incremental production; revenue used to subsidize cotton inputs excluded
3/ 20% tax on 50% of incremental cash incomes
4/ Assumes reduced ongoing ORD structure, simply to maintain project induced production.
5/ Subsidies on second project-induced use of inputs on crops other than cotton at present levels. See aise
p-racraph 6.08.
6/  oe stiw effect of extreme assumption that Government does not reduce costs after project implementation period,
but that production, and hence lines 3 and 4, remain stable. Assumes no further technical assistance, 4 year
vehicle life, and no increase in inputs use.
71 Excluding CPAP 85 millicn needed to maintain production levels achieved under the first project, See also
paragraph 3.06.



UPPER VOLTA: SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
CFAF MILLIONS
1       2        3        4       S        6        7        8        9   10-20
COSTS
AGRICULTURE                    216      173      148      165     135       45       45      45       45       45
TRAINING                        49       30       18      21       18        6        6       6        6        6
SUPPLY SERVICE                  53       40       37      40       33       33       33      33       33       33
TREE-PLANTING                   22       14       12       15      12        4        4       4        4        4
HEADOUARTERS                   142      127       98     118       98       33       33      33       33       33
MONITORING                      22       15       21       15      12        4        4        4       4        4
INPUTS                         273      334     393      475      549      500     500      500      500      500
INCR. FARM LABOR                53      226     403      509      607      607     607      607      607      607
FEEDER ROADS                   268      114      145     131      102       18       18      18       18       18
LIVESTOCK                       99       76       58      61       50       32      32       32       32       32
TOTAL COSTS                   1198    1150    1333    1549    1617    1282    1282    1282    1282    1282
BENEFITS
AGRICULTURE                    264      576      952    1381    1907    1930    1942    1956    1970    1983
LIVESTOCK                        O       30       59      90      120      134      134     134      134      134
TOTAL BENEFITS                 264      606    1011    1471    2027    2064    2076    2090    2104    2117
NET BENEFITS
____________
BENEFITS LESS COSTS           -934    -544    -321       -79      410      782     794      808      822      835
FILE BSLCZX NOTLEY/BOU2/ERR SBR 204



UPPER VOLTA* SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP BENEFITS
1       2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9   10-20
QlUANTITIES - (M-T)
SORGHUM                       1273    2737    4472    6474    8981    8981    8981    8981    8981    8981
MILLET                        436      877    1356    1770    2255    2255    2255    2255    2255    2255
MAIZE                          269     611    1026    1.503    2204    2204    2204    2204    2204    2204
RICE (PADDY)                   195     299      552     726      908      908     908      908      908     908
GROUNDNUTS (UNSHELLED)        267      743    1333    1954    2846    2846    2846    2846    2846    2846
COWPEAS                        182     312      550     828    1234    1234    1234    1234    1234    1234
COTTON                         782    1460    2213    3074    4011    4011    4011    4011    4011    4011
YAMS                           546     762    1323    1986    2727    2727    2727    2727    2727    2727
ECONOMIC PRICES: CFAF/KG
SORGU- -168------0---0-07
SORLHUM                         61      68       68      69       69       70      70       70       70       70
MILLET                          61      68       68      69       69       70      70       70       70       70
MAIZE                           62      67       67      68       68       68      68       69       69       69
RICE (PADDY)                    68      72       74      75       77       77      78       78       78       79
GROUNDNUTS (UNSHELLED)          45      62       55      49       42       44      45       47       49      51
COWPEAS                         95      98       98      97       97       99     102      104      107      109
COTTON                          91     103      112     121      131      132     133      134      135     136
YAMS                            54      54       54      54       54       54      54       54       54       54
VALUES - CFAF MILLIONS
________.________________
SORGHUM                         78     186      304     447      620      629     629      629      629     629
MILLET                          27      60       92     122      156      158     158      158      158      158
MAIZE                           17      41       69     102      150      150     150      152      152      152
RICE (PADDY)                    13      22       41      54       70       70      71       71       71      72
GROUNDNUTS (UNSHELLED)          12      46       73      96      120      125     128      134      139      145
COWPEAS                         17      31       54      80      120      1.22    126      128      132      135
COTTON                          71     150      248     372      525      529     533      537      541     546
YAMS                            29      41       71     107      147      147     147      147      147     147
TOTAL VALUE                    264     576      952    1381    1907    1930    1942    1956    1970    1983
FILE NOTL.EY/BOU2/ERR SBR 33



IPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Farmgate Prices - 1981 CFAF/kg
---Export Parity Basis                      - Import Substitution Basis-------   Local Trade basis
%FE     Cotton   Groundnuts   Beef   %FE   Sorghum!   Rice   Maize   Cowpeas   Yams   Milk/liter
millet
1. Price CF Europe/
fob Abidjan           100         437         142              100        23        83        22        46
2.  At relevant quality 100            392         142              100        23        70       19        46
3.  (i)  Handling
processing
and transport   76           147          82              100        43        43       43        43
(ii)  Adjusted for
SCF (0.874) on
local costs                  143          80                         43        43       43        43
4.  (1)  Processing antd
bagging                                                    55         5        13        5         5
(ii)  Adjusted for
SCF                                                                   5        12        5         5
5.  (i)  Handling and
transport-
farmgate to
Bobo                                                       55        il        18       il        il
(ii)  Adjusted for
SCF                                                                  10        17       10        10
6.  (i)  Farmgate price                249          62                         51        84       47        74
(ii)  Adjusted to                 (lint)   (shelled)                              (rice)
form at farm-
gate                          93          46       550               51        55       47        74       54       120
(seed)  (unshelled) (carcass)                  (paddy)
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



- 53 -
ANNEX 10
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.        General Reports and Studies on Sector
AI.   IRAT:  Synthèse des études sur les tubercules de Haute-Volta
1977-78-79 (mars 1980)
B.        Reports and Studies relating to Project
B1.   Rapport de préparation - novembre 1979
C.        Selected Implementation Working Papers
Cl.   Agriculture
C2.   Encadrement
C3.   Elevage
C4.   Boisement
C5.   Gestion ; rapports
C6.   Suivi et planification
C7.   Coûts du projet
C8.   Analyse économique
D.        Other Working Papers
Dl.   Sociology



r
t



[BRD 15127R
41-           U~~IPPER  VOLTA                                                                                   VE8S10
HA UTE - VOL/ TA
SECOND BOUGOURIBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECOND PROJET DE DEVELOPREMENT AOR/C-OIE DE LA BOL/GOIJR/BA
9001
Â  Proposed veterincry posts 
Pse   étéri»aîres proposes
s. Existinag veteriniary posts
Postes véter,a7ires exIstantsFON
-~Tree nurseriesGotr                                                                                                    nb,i
P~~~~~~tpinières ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                Kt
Isohyets in millîmeters                                                                                l    rm
/sohye tes en7 m1il//e! res                                                                                     a
ORD headquairters
Clief-hIev de /'O,RDr
Sector offices                                                                                                   t,~
©  Chef-/ieu de secteurCura
Sub-sector offices
O Chef-t/du de sous-secteur                                                                               N
Supply and credit centers                                     GnîÉGdoeRE
___ORD boundorîes
Z-Imite deé /ORDVoau
___Sector boundidries                                                   DIÉBOUGOU                  Bale
Lnimie dle sec teur         r/e~eOes,,
National roads                                                          BMK
Routes nationales
_____Secondory roads by yeor5 of project
Routes second1aire-s en annèe cinq du projet\
R ivers                                                                                                     Z B
__ n_loernotioncol boundoiries                                                                       HM
Frontières internationalesD
KILOMETESO O  O  20  30  ÂO  50                       Dimolo      ~~~~~~~~~~~BOUROUMA         Kom,
MILES O           10           20           30       1yérito
'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ib
UPPER  VOLTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERGANBMBLR
00                                                                                                      a O ,erA~wdm 9
79e deeee,es   eed se he
-)d,                                                                                                    iDEB D                                          Io'NiNeee
-~~  GI~A.NA                    Wo  5eekeetNe'fre1   e
/e~~~eee:eeei~~~~~~~~eîeoeaaoef                                                        20
eeyerrnoeraeyeedas. ,ee



