Report No. 1368a-UNI
Appraisal of Lafia Agricultural    FIL
Development Project Nigeria
May 20, 1977
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =   Naira (N)
US$1                 - N 0.617
N 1                  =   US$1.62
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures in this report are metric.
1 metric ton         =   0.98 long ton
1 long ton
(- 2,240 lb)           1.016 metric ton
1 hectare                2.47 acres
I acre               =   0.405 ha
1 kilometer (km)         0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
APMEPU            Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
BPMB              Benue Plateau Marketing Board
BSP               Basic Services Package
CPDCET            Centre de Perfectionnement pour le Developpement et la
Cooperation Economique et Technique of the French Aid Ministry
DC                Development Center
FDL               Federal Department of Livestock
FMARD             Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMG               Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FSC               Farmers Service Center
TAR               Institute of Agricultural Research
IITA              International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LBA               Licensed Buying Agent
ICCMU             Igala Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union
LGC               Local Government Council
LPEC              Lafia Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union
MANR              Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOW               Ministry of Works
NPMC              Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NSMB              Northern States Marketing Board
RBDA              River Basin Development Authority
THU               Tractor Hire Unit
WARDA             West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL. UZ  3N  Y
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                     i - iii
II.   BACKGROUND .........                           .......2
- The Economy . ......................................        2
- The Agricultural Sector ......................2
III.   PROJECT AREA ..         ..............o........ .              6
- G,eneral ... * .......... oo...    ................         6
- Agriculture and Farm Systems        ............ .7
- lnqtitutions and Farmer Services ................           8
- Development Plans .................... . ..........         8
IV.   THE PROJECT .9..      ..... ..............9
- General Description.                         ..             9
- Detailed Features ...................... . ........        10
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ........           13
- Project Costs        ...    . .   ....13
- Financing Arrangements ..........................          15
- Procurement . ..... O ... ...................  ........    17
- Disbursements .. ......      . .........................   18
- Budgets, Accounts and Audits ....................          18
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND M.ANAGEMENT..                                19
- Organization ... ..........................                19 .....  19
- Staffing    ........  20
- Input Delivery and Credit Arrangements ..........          20
- Postproject Development                .        .          21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. van der Lugt, Pease, Draper (Bank), Reader, Hallgrimsson (Consultants),
Tagoe (WARDA), Deprez (Trainee CPDCET) and Dalton (FDL expert).
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                      Page No.
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMER BENEFITS, AND FINANCIAL
IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT ....   ...................    22
-  Yields  and  Production  ............................   22
- Marketing and Prices .....    ........................   23
-  Farm  Benefits   ....... .................     .   ..   .... . .  24
- Financial Implications for Government ..... ........     24
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS  ......... ................    25
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED ....   .........     26
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1  Project Area
A. Description
B. Agriculture
C. Institutions
D. State Development Plans
Table 1 Mean Rainfall Data
Table 2 Summary of the Main Characteristics of the Soil Map Units
Table 3 Population Estimates and Area Under Cultivation
Table 4 Estimated Staff Strength and Other Resources of MANR in Lafia
Division
Chart 16364 Mean Rainfall
Map   12332  Soil Classification
Map   12333 Land Use
ANNEX 2  Summary of Crop and Farm Development
A. Crop Development
B. Farm Development
Table 1 Estimated Cropping Patterns
Table 2 One Hectare Annual Crop Budgets
Table 3 Area Developed and Economic Benefits
Table 4 Average Farm Budget
Table 5 Annual Crop Labor Requirements
Table 6 Production Estimates
Table 7 Extension Staff Requirement
Table 8 Costs of Extension Service
Table 9 Costs of Farm Development Division
Chart 16327 Farm Labor Profile



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 3   Summary of Livestock Development
Table 1 Summary of Livestock Development Costs
ANNEX 4   Summary of Forestry Development
Table 1 Summary of Forestry Activities
Table 2  Summary of Forestry Costs
ANNEX 5   Fisheries Development
A. General
B. Development Proposals
Table 1 Costs and Benefits of Bunded Lagoons
Table 2 Fishery Development Costs
ANNEX 6   Civil Works
- General
- Organization and Management
- Road Development
- Water Supply
- Buildings
- Project Costs
Table I Phasing of Road Construction and Maintenance
Table 2 Operating Cost of Plant and Equipment
Table 3  Schedule of Building Costs
Table 4  Number of Houses
Table 5  Engineering Department, Summary of Costs
Table 6  Production Rates and Plant Requirements for Critical Units
Table 7  Equipment Utilization and Operating Costs
Table 8  Capital Costs of Plant and Equipment
Table 9  Housing and Workshop Requirements
Table 10 Staff Salaries and Overheads
Table 11 Cost of MIaterials
Chart 16365 - Agricultural Road Cross Section
Chart 16366 - Rangeland Dam Cross Sector
Map 12373   - Federal Trunk Roads



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 7   Supporting Services
- General
- Management and Administration
- Seed Multiplication
- Research
- Training
- Evaluation
Table 1 Costs of Management and Administration
Table 2 Staff Likely to be Internationally Recruited
Table 3 Area Required for Seed Multiplication and Research
Table 4 Seed Purchases
Table 5 Costs of Seed Multiplication
Table 6 Costs of Research
Table 7 Costs of Training
Table 8 Costs of Evaluation
Chart 16483 Organization Chart
Chart 16459 Start-up Plan
ANNEX 8   Commercial Development
A. General
B. Input Development
C. Market Development
Table I Tentative Sites of Farmers Service Centers
Table 2 Seasonal Crop Input Requirements (per crop)
Table 3 Seasonal Crop Input Requirements
Table 4 Physical Requirements for Medium and Long-term Credit
Table 5  Requirements for Medium and Long-term Credit
Table 6 Costs of Commercial Services Department
Appendix 1 Clarification of Fertilizer Procurement Procedures
ANNEX 9   Project' Costs
Table 1 Summary of Project Costs by Function
Table 2 Summary of Project Costs by Expense Categories
ANNEX 10 Financing Arrangements
Table 1 Detailed Financing Plan
Table 2 Disbursement Schedule
Table 3 Illustrative Cash Flow of FMG
Table 4 Illustrative Cash Flow of the State
ANNEX 11 Marketing and Prices
A. Market Background
B. Market Outlook
C. Price Forecasts
Table 1 Forecast Farmgate Prices



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 12 Economic Justification
Table 1 Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 2 Sensitivity Analysis
MAP 12135R3 Nigeria Agricultural Projects
MAP 12330    Project Area
Details relating to this project and to the Ayangba project which is being
processed simultaneously are in a supplementary report entitled Nigeria,
Central Agricultural Development Project, Supplementary Annexes (Report
1370a-UNI, dated May 31, 1977) which has not been distributed but is available
upon request. This contains the following annexes:
1.  Agriculture in Nigeria
2.   Crop Development
3.   Farm Development
4.   Livestock Development
5.   Forestry
6.   Seed Multiplication
7.   Research
8.   Training
9.   Monitoring and Evaluation
10. Organization and Management
11. Marketing and Prices






NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusion
i.        The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested
Bank assistance to finance an agricultural development project in Plateau
State. The project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1974 and pre-
pared by consultants in late 1974. This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission that visited Nigeria in May/June 1976.
ii.       Currently, industry and the urban population are becoming more
dependent on the rural population for food and labor inputs as the gap
between urban and rural incomes increases. FMG is trying to offset this
by promoting agricultural development.
iii.      Plateau State produces a wide range of crops reflecting the
suitability of soils and climate. Research organizations and farmers have
demonstrated that the use of improved seeds, fertilizers, and insecticides
produces substantial benefits. However, due to poor planning, managerial
and until recently financial constraints, very little has been done for the
farmer.
iv.       The project area (9,400 km2), representing some 1% of the total land
area of Nigeria, is centered around Lafia in Plateau State. It has a popula-
tion of 0.5 million, less than 1% of the total population of Nigeria (estimated
at 75 million). Approximately 80% of the population, 60,000 families, are
engaged in agriculture with an average holding of 2.5 ha. Soils are declining
in fertility and internal inflation creates pressures to increase production.
v.        The project would involve crop development by increasing farm pro-
duction through improved farm practices and extension services; livestock
development through improved veterinary services, establishing four grazing
reserves, improving cattle trade routes and upgrading small stock; forestry
development by establishing 2,200 ha of pole and fuelwood plantations; and
fishery development through improved fishery extension services and four
lagoons. Infrastructural development includes 600 km of feeder roads, 400
wells, 25 earth dams for water supply in grazing reserves, and project head-
quarters in Lafia. Seed multiplication, applied research, training and
evaluation would support project development. Commercial services would
provide input supply through 20 Farmers Service Centers, credit facilities and
a marketing advisory service.
vi.       The project would be managed by a special Management Unit and Exe-
cutive Committee under the State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR). The Committee would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MANR.



- ii -
The semi-autonomous Management Unit which would be responsible for imple-
menting and operating the project would be staffed through transfer of
existing Goverrnment staff or direct recruitment. Deficiencies in special-
ized technical skills and high level management staff, unavailable or in
short supply in Nigeria, would be met through international recruitment.
vii.      Project costs are estimated at US$85 million and a 20-year Bank
loan of US$27 million is proposed including a 4.5-year grace period which is
equivalent to the foreign exchange component; the loan would be onlent to
Plateau State and would finance 32% of costs net of taxes.
viii.     Vehicles, tractors, road-making equipment, other equipment, ferti-
lizers, insecticides, and other farm inputs valued at about US$11.5 million
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines for those contracts valued over US$75,000, and through
competitive bidding and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to
the Bank for contracts of less than US$35,000. For contracts under US$10,000,
direct competitive shopping would be employed. Domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import duty, which-
ever is lower. Experience has shown that contracts for buildings, houses,
and FSC complexes valued at US$9.7 million are not attractive to foreign
bidders due to dispersed locations, small size of contracts, and competitive-
ness of local contractors; such contracts would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding. Construction of small dams, roads and wells
would be undertaken by the project on force account, a practice that is
proving successful under the northern projects. A large part of project
costs would be for staff salaries, operating expenses, training costs,
seed purchases and nursery operations valued at US$30.1 million, and un-
suitable for competitive bidding. The services of consultants and ex-
patriate staff valued at US$3.5 million would be obtained in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. An amount of US$30.2 million would
be required for contingencies.
ix.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over the five-year period, 1978-
1982, as follows:  100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly
imported vehicles, tractors, road-making equipment and spare parts (or 70% of
the costs of these items if locally procured) totaling US$3.8 million; 100% of
the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported equipment, furnishings
and materials (or 70% of the costs of these items if locally procured) total-
ing US$1.0 million; 100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly
imported fertilizer and insecticides (or 70% of the cost of these items if
locally procured) totaling US$3.0 million; 100% of the costs of internationally
recruited staff including their salaries, allowances and recruitment costs,
and of consulting services and scholarships, totaling US$3.5 million; 40% of
the costs of buildings and houses totaling US$2.8 million; 20% of the costs of
local staff totaling US$4.0 million; and an unallocated amount of US$8.9
million. Retroactive financing as of November 1, 1976 of up to US$400,000 is
proposed for internationally recruited personnel. Disbursement of the Bank
loan would be against import documentation, contracts and certified records of
expenditure; the latter would be scrutinized by Bank supervision missions and
independent auditors.



- iii -
x.        The estimated principal direct benefits would be annual incre-
mental production from Year 5 as follows: 92,000 tons yams, 50,000 tons
cassava, 7,900 tons rice, 8,900 tons maize, 600 tons melon, 4,800 tons
sorghum, 5,800 tons cowpeas and 2,000 tons benniseed. About 60,000 farm
families would directly benefit but the project would also benefit non-
farming families in the area through better communications, water supplies
and marketing. In all, some 500,000 people would one way or another re-
ceive benefits from the project. Intangible benefits include infrastructure
on which health and other social services could be developed, expansion of
local trade and the strengthening of institutions including the Local Govern-
ment Councils and the State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
The project's evaluation unit, under the guidance of the Federal Ministry
of Rural Development's Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit,
would support future Federal and State agricultural planning. Average
farm incomes in the project area would increase by US$340 from US$580 to
US$920 per annum at full development.
xi.       The economic rate of return is 23%; a 20% reduction in benefits and
a 20% increase in costs would reduce the rate of return to 13% and the project
would still be viable.
xii.      On the basis of the assurances obtained during negotiations and
set out in Chapter IX, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$27
million.






NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested a
Bank loan to help finance an agricultural development project in Lafia and Awe
Local Government Council (LGC) areas of Plateau State. The project would have
direct and indirect benefits for the estimated 0.5 million people living in
Lafia Division.
1.02      The project was identified by the Bank Resident Mission in Lagos in
June 1974 and a feasibility study was completed in March 1975 by consultants,
recruited with World Bank assistance, financed by FMG. The project was
appraised in May/June 1976 by a mission composed of Messrs. van der Lugt,
Pease, Draper (Bank), Reader, Hallgrimsson (consultants), Tagoe (WARDA),
Deprez (Trainee CPDCET), and Dalton (FDL expert).
1.03      The first Bank loans for agriculture in Nigeria were for the Western
State Cocoa Project (1971, Loan 764-UNI, US$7.2 million), now physically complete,
and the Second Cocoa Project (1974, Loan 1045-UNI, US$20 million), which is
being successfully implemented in the former Western and Mid-Western states.
1/ Following an identification mission in 1972 loans were made for three
integrated agricultural development projects in the north: Funtua Project
(1974, Loan 1092-UNI, US$29 million), Gusau Project (1974, Loan 1099-UNI,
US$19 million), and Gombe Project (1974, Loan 1164-UNI, US$21 million); a Rice
Project (1974, Loan 1103-UNI, US$17.51 million) in the former East Central and
South East States 2/; a Livestock Project (1974 Loan 1091-UNI, US$21.0 mil-
lion); and three oil palm projects: Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Proj-
ect, Western State 3/ (1975, Loan 1192-UNI US$17.0 million), Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Mid-Western State 4/ (1975, Loan 1183-UNI,
US$29.5 million) and Smallholder Oil Palm Project East Central State 5/ (1975,
Loan 1191-UNI, US$19.0 million). The Northern Agricultural Development Projects
are being implemented successfully; the remaining projects have for various
reasons been slow starters, but are expected to make up lost time as management
gains experience. Most of the projects are encountering substantial cost
overruns, due to rapid internal inflation (40% in 1975). However Government
1/   Following the creation of the new states, the project is now executed in
Oyo, Ogun, Ondo and Bendel States, and project assets and liabilities
are being divided accordingly.
2/   Now in three states:  Anambra, Imo and Cross Rivers States.
3/   Now in Ondo State.
4/   Now in Bendel State.
5/   Now in Imo State.



-2-
is expected to allocate sufficient funds to meet these deficits. A further
six agricultural development projects and a potential forestry project were
identified in October 1976. Two of the agricultural projects and the forestry
project are expected to be appraised during FY78.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      The 924,000 km2 Federal Republic of Nigeria now comprises 19 States
and has a population of about 75 million. Average annual per capita income
is estimated at US$327 (1975), but in rural areas it is only about US$60. In
urban centers average income is much higher but unequally distributed.
2.02      Following a period of civil strife, rehabilitation, and consolidation
characterized by relative stagnation, economic growth generated by increased
public sector activities resumed in 1972. This was accompanied by inflation,
supply shortages and infrastructural congestions. Although primary productive
sector performance has been disappointing, the economy continued to grow
rapidly because of the phenomenal expansion of the service sectors; from
1972-75 GDP rose at an average rate of 6.5% per annum. Nigeria's economic
development has been increasingly dominated by oil, which by 1974 accounted for
41% of GDP, 93% of export earnings and 82% of total Government revenues, sur-
passing the agricultural sector in all areas except employment. The Third
National Development Plan (April 1975-March 1980) was budgeted at US$53 bil-
lion, but due to slippage the effective program is now projected at US$32 bil-
lion. The plan has recently been reviewed by Government and greater emphasis
has been given to health, housing and agriculture.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      General.  Approximately 75% of Nigeria's population is dependent.
on agriculture which accounts for about 28% of GDP, 5% of total export earnings
and 75% of non-oil exports. Agricultural production is almost entirely in the
hands of smallholders whose levels of technology and production efficiency are
low.
2.04      Cropping patterns vary within the country's main ecological zones.
In the forest zones of the south, where rainfall is bimodally distributed
over a wet season of up to eight months, the agricultural economy is largely
based on tree crops with annual staples providing subsistence and subsidiary
income. In the Guinea and Sudan Savannah zones of the north, rainfall is
monomodal within a six-month spread and production is based almost entirely on
annual crops. Between these two zones is an area known as the "middle belt,"



- 3 -
supporting southern Guinea and transitional forest savannah vegetation and a
mix of annual and tree crops, though rainfall quantity and spread are inadequate
for successful economic exploitation of the latter. Little development atten-
tion has been directed towards the "middle belt," which forms an important
food producing reserve for the nation.
2.05      Growth of the agricultural sector has been disappointing, averaging
1.3% per annum from 1970-75, equivalent to only half the average population
growth. This same period has been characterized by rapidly rising domestic
food prices as demand, resulting from population and income growth, outstripped
domestic supply, and by a marked decline in traditional agricultural export
crops: N 309 million in 1970 to N 265 million in 1975. During the same period
total exports (including petroleum) increased from N 852 million to N 4,848
million; importation of food and live animals over the same period rose
from N 60 million to nearly N 300 million.
2.06      Development Strategy.  Government is acutely aware of the need to
improve performance in the agricultural sector and to invest the substantial
revenues from oil, a wasting asset, in order to expand and diversify the rest
of the economy in which agriculture is the dominant sector. In the Third
Five-Year Development Plan, a total of N 2.2 billion has been earmarked for
the sector to support a targeted growth rate of 5%. The program includes
development of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of
modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution and
marketing services and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development will be promoted with complementary investments in secondary
and feeder roads, rural electrification, health and other social services.
2.07      Government's main short-term objective is to improve internal
price stability in basic foodcrops and to ensure adequate food supplies to
the rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background of assured
domestic food supplies, Government's longer-term objectives are to create a
prosperous and efficient agricultural industry sufficient to reduce population
drift to urban centers and to revive the role of Nigeria as an exporter.
2.08      Development Constraints.  Undoubtedly, the main short-term develop-
ment constraint in the sector is the lack of effective agricultural support
services. Produce evacuation is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many
farmers have to travel long distances to the unevenly distributed and un-
reliable sources of inputs.
2.09      Input demand, at the present highly subsidized prices, is high
and unsatisfied; in many areas this has encouraged a thriving black market.
However, within areas of relatively high consumption of purchased inputs,
physical yields are invariably low and it is unlikely that economic viability,
and indeed financial viability, would be achieved at economic prices. A



greater effort is required, particularly by the agricultural research institu-
tions, to improve the analysis of technical, economic and financial aspects of
farming innovations adapted to the different socio-ecological conditions of
Nigeria. This information is essential for the application of a sound input
supply policy and the development of relevant delivery systems that would
support the adoption of modern farming techniques.
2.10      Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which react against the poor returns to labor
and drudgery associated with traditional agriculture. This has encouraged the
drift of young people away from rural areas and has resulted in a sharp rise
in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a prosperous agriculture industry,
capable of reducing this drift, would only be achieved through application of
advanced farming techniques which are particularly adapted to larger farming
units either group or individually operated.
2.11      Government's development strategy takes full account of these
constraints but the lack of the necessary planning and organization base
at either the State or Federal level prevents the application of successful
remedies. Responsibilities of different ministries and departments remain
uncoordinated while severe technical and managerial shortages continue to
impede both planning and executive ability.
2.12      Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands of
the public sector, and present Government subsidy policies have served to
remove commercial incentive for private sector participation. It is, however,
quite clear that given Nigeria's size and massive development program, Govern-
ment may need to progressively divest itself of responsibilities such as
input and produce marketing, thus requiring the creation of an economic frame-
work appropriate to profitable intervention of private entrepreneurs in the
agriculture service sector.
2.13      Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy.  Since 1971, the Bank has
been involved in ten tree or food crop projects (see para 1.03). During
this time, Government and the Bank have been able to review the progress of
these projects, and together are generally satisfied with the approach adopted.
In particular, the progress of the three northern projects (Loans 1092-, 1099-
and 1164-UNI) has clearly demonstrated the advantages of planned agricultural
development implemented under a reformed administrative structure which allows
necessary State control while affording management full day-to-day operational
autonomy. As a result, both Federal and State Governments are anxious to
replicate this structure in other states in the Federation. There is also
increasing interest in the role of the commecial sector in agriculture which
is being actively pursued under these projects. As such, these projects are
acting as catalysts of change on a much wider basis than initially envisaged.



-5-
2.14      The very success of the projects has underscored and brought to
the attention of the Federal Government some important economic and develop-
ment issues that have to be taken into account in future Bank lending for
agriculture. First, the unnecessary fertilizer and chemical subsidies in the
light of the huge developing demand threaten to have a serious fiscal impact
which will erode the public resources which otherwise could be directed to
other more long-term agricultural investments. It is estimated, for instance,
that the Funtua project alone could consume, at present subsidy levels,
100,000 tons of fertilizer a year by 1980. Overall, on conservatively esti-
mated total consumption of 500,000 tons of fertilizer per annum in 1980 and on
the basis of the present subsidy of N 120 per ton, the annual fertilizer
subsidy bill would be about N 60 million (US$97.2 million). Government is now
undertaking a review of these policies. Second, the current commercial bank
interest rates at 5% are reflected in Government's agricultural farm lending
policies. These low rates are due to a temporary liquidity situation, and
it is difficult for the Bank to press for increased interest while the
current situation prevails. However, as in the ongoing projects, the commer-
cial banking institutions are being encouraged to participate; the Bank's
contribution to onfarm lending, particularly medium and long term, would be
kept to a catalytic minimum--as proposed in this project. The above situation
is unlikely to perpetuate itself, and will be kept under constant review.
Third, the need for more stabilized farm commodity prices, particularly for
foodcrops, has become evident. Government is tackling this problem by
establishing a series of crop-specific marketing boards that would establish
floor buying prices; however, the latter is a new development and has yet to
be properly tested. As Bank-supported projects mature, marketing problems are
more apparent, and it is quite likely that before long the Bank may have to
become involved in marketing policies and infrastructure on a nation-wide
basis. Fourth, the lack of physical support infrastructure including feeder
roads and farm service centers has caused serious bottlenecks in Government-
sponsored programs, including Operation Feed the Nation and the National
Accelerated Food Production Programs. On the other hand, the provision of
such infrastructure in the northern projects has demonstrated its importance
and is paving the way to participation of the private sector in serving
agriculture. Finally, the lack of experienced manpower in the agriculture
public administraion is quite probably the major constraint to the planning
and implementation of development schemes in Nigeria.
2.15      Resolving the above issues is a very difficult task that Government
recognizes and for which it expects the financial and technical support of the
Bank Group. For instance, Government has informally approached the Bank to
review the subsidy, interest rate and pricing policies, and consequently the
forthcoming Economic Review of Nigeria intends to analyze the problems and
make recommendations under which a future Bank lending program would be
developed. The provision of physical infrastructure comprising roads, service
centers, input distribution and improved extension systems forms a major
component of the Bank's existing and proposed agricultural development projects



-6-
and constitutes the minimum development criterion to ensure an agricultural
takeoff in any given area. As to management and administration constraints,
the short-term solution adopted in Bank-supported projects in Nigeria is
international recruitment and the establishment of special project management
units. Yet the long-term solution necessarily involves the training of
Nigerian management staff. To this end, at the request of Government, the
Bank intends to consider financing an Agricultural Management Training Institute.
Government views the Northern Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit created
under the Funtua Agricultural Development Project (1092-UNI) as a first step
toward creating the planning and monitoring capability for rural development
in the Ministry of Agriculture, and Government hopes to expand it with Bank
support under the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01       The project area lying within the Southern Guinea Savannah Zone (for
details see Annex I and Map 12330 attached to this report) covers 9,400 km2, 1/
and comprises the Lafia and Awe Local Government Council (LGC) areas of
Plateau State. It is characterized by a gently undulating topography rising
to 250 meters. The major rivers (the Mada in the west, the Dep in the east
and the Benue in the south) are bordered by extensive flood plains.
3.02      Rainfall is about 1,200 mm annually and is characterized by a long
wet season from March to October, marginally bimodal, and followed by an
intense dry season. Sunshine hours decline to an August daily low of 4-5
hours, the February high being around 8 hours. Mean temperatures have a
bimodal character, with a March peak of 360 C. Most of the area is underlain
by rudimentary marine and continental deposits of the cretacious period.
Sediments are predominantly sandstone and shale, and soils are ferruginous,
weakly buffered and low in exchange capacity. Densely cultivated sandstone
bands, low in available nutrients and unable to sustain intensive cultivation,
occupy a large part of the area. Strongly weathered volcanic soils derived
from basalt around Awe have not attracted dense settlement. Flood plain
soils are hydromorphic alluvial.
3.03      The area's population is of varied ethnic origin and over 20
tribal communities are represented. A notable feature is the steady rate
of immigration, especially since the Civil War. No census figures are
available, but the area's total population (1980 estimates) is about 500,000.
With about 80% engaged in agriculture, there are about 60,000 farm families
cultivating some 150,000 ha (2.5 ha/family). Settlement patterns vary
with ethnic origin: half the population is concentrated in large nucleated
villages and the other half, notably the Tiv, live in small isolated hamlets.
1/   Although large, this represents just over 1% of Nigeria's total area; less
than 1% of Nigeria's estimated population lives in the area (see para 3.03).



- 7 -
3.04      Communications in the project area are secured by road and rail
supplemented by small river transport. The road network is composed as
follows:  Federal trunk roads, 174 km; State roads, 243 km; Local Govern-
ment Council (LGC) roads, 360 km; and community roads and tracks, 800 km.
The road network is sufficient but poor. The railway link between the north
and Port Harcourt runs through the area. Most communications are north/south,
as the Dep and Mada rivers are major obstacles for east/west connections.
3.05      Water supplies are generally unsatisfactory and only Lafia town has
a reticulated supply. Education and medical facilities are rudimentary but
will be expanded under the Third National Development Plan. Electricity is
available only in Lafia town.
Agriculture and Farm Systems
3.06      The project area lies within the Nigerian Middle Belt, a transi-
tional zone between the northern grain crop and southern root crop zones.
Agriculture production consists mostly of annual crops and yam is dominant
both as a staple food and as a cash crop.
3.07      Farm systems are conditioned by moderately fertile soils and a
long growing season which permits double cropping of short duration crops.
Intercropping either through relay cropping or undersowing is common.
Although land is relatively abundant, cultivation is not mechanized and there
is a strong correlation between farm size and family labor, as only limited
hired labor is available.
3.08      Bush/fallow cultivation, under which land is cropped for four to
six years and rested for five to ten years, is practiced, although continuous
cultivation takes place in compound plots. Yams are the first crop in the
bush/fallow cycle, millet and sorghum are common second year crops, and
cassava is the last crop.
3.09      There is no integration of crops and livestock, cattle owner-
ship being almost entirely in the hands of Fulani pastoralists. Small-
stock survive as scavengers around homesteads. Resident cattle are estimated
at 60,000 head, and migratory movements would add another 60,000 head during
part of the year. Small stock are estimated at 37,000 goats, 36,000 sheep,
and 12,000 pigs. Three cattle trade routes traverse the area.
3.10      Fishing is an important industry along the Benue river and its
main tributaries. Swamp and flood areas which become inundated during the
wet season provide good fish breeding and growing conditions.
3.11      Communal forest areas cover 3,200 ha, but not all areas have been
planted and management problems exist. A sustained cutting cycle is dif-
ficult to maintain because of uncontrolled cutting by local people and thus
excessive weed growth is downgrading wood production and quality.



- 8 -
3.12      Land which is communal is allocated to community members according
to customary usufruct. Cultivation rights usually include tree felling al-
though certain species are protected. Responsibility for land allocation
lies with Local Govermnent Councils (LGC) and is administered locally by
village heads and chiefs.
Institutions and Farmers Services
3.13      The State's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is
responsible for agricultural development in the State, including forestry,
fisheries and livestock. MANR has offices in Lafia. Existing MANR staff and
facilities in the project area would be incorporated in the project (see para
6.05). The Ministry of Works is responsible for civil works. The Ministry of
Trade, Industries and Cooperatives operates a Small-Scale Industries Credit
Scheme which would also benefit agro-industries. The Registrar of cooperatives
supervises the cooperative movement. Thirty primary societies are affiliated
with the Lafia Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union which is defunct because
of bad debts. The Local Government Councils (see Annex 1, para 39) administer
the area.
3.14      Farmers services and credit facilities are minimal and input supply
both by Government and private traders is limited. The small extension staff
is severely limited by lack of resources. The latter has been exacerbated by
the recent creation of additional states and the consequent relocation of
staff to their home states.
Development Plans
3.15      The Third National Development Plan includes the following which
will affect the project area: improvement of Federal and State roads; rural
electrification and water supply for five townships and expansion of these
facilities in Lafia town; and expansion of health services and primary and
secondary education facilities. The plan also includes a pulpwood plantation
in Doma forest reserve, and a slaughterhouse and starch and glucose industry
in Lafia. Substantial coal reserves have been explored near Obi and the
feasibility of a coal mining complex is being studied.
3.16      The plan includes two irrigation schemes along the Mada and Dep
rivers respectively. The Mada river feasibility study has been completed
and proposes irrigation of the Mada river flood plains (located on the
western border of the project area). These proposals are compatible with
project development proposals. The Dep river irrigation scheme has only
been identified and a feasibility study is currently being undertaken. The
prefeasibility study proposes canal irrigation for upland areas in the east
of the project area that would nullify the grazing reserve proposals in
this report. The reservoir to be created would force the resettlement of
farmers and would inundate areas which have good soils and are densely culti-
vated. The feasibility study might change these proposals considerably, and
during negotiations assurances were obtained that Government would provide the



- 9 -
completed feasibility study to the Bank for its comments, and that no final
decisions regarding the proposals and recommendations would be taken without
prior review with the Bank. In any event, the project would set the basis for
provision of essential support services to ensure adequate levels of produc-
tion after the construction of either irrigation scheme.
IV. THE PROJECT
General Description
4.01      The project would be carried out effectively over a five-year
period, 1978-82; 1977 would be spent on start-up activities and expenses
incurred during that year have been included in project costs. The project
provides for a Basic Service Package for the area (crop development, roads,
supporting services and commercial services) supplemented by additional
livestock, forestry, fishery, and water development, and would specifically
involve:
Production and Associated Investments
- Crop Development: increasing farm production through
improved farm practices; expanded extension services
and establishment of a farm advisory service;
- Livestock Development: providing veterinary services
and upgrading local small livestock; establishing four
grazing reserves and improving cattle trade routes;
- Forestry Development: establishing 2,200 hectares of
township fuelwood and pole plantations;
- Fishery Development: improving and expanding fishery
extension services in the area and establishing four
fishing lagoons.
Infrastructure and Support Services
- Infrastructural Development: improving 600 km of feeder
roads, supplementing water supply through well construction
and constructing an administrative center at Lafia;
- Supporting Services: establishing a project seed
multiplication center, improving applied research capacity,
developing a training center for project staff and farmers,
and establishing an evaluation unit;
- Commercial services: providing adequate input supply
and credit and other facilities through 20 Farmers
Service Centers (FSC) and providing a market advisory
service.



- 10 -
4.02      The project would be managed by the semi-autonomous Lafia Project
Management Unit (LPMU) which would be responsible for implementing the project.
LPMU would be responsible to the Lafia Project Executive Committee (LPEC) for
budgetary and policy control (see Chapter VI).
Detailed Features
Production and Associated Investments
4.03      Crop Development (for details see Annex 2).  Farmers' crop yields
would be increased through improved technical production packages comprising
improved seeds, seed dressings, fertilizer and insecticides, supported by a
more intensive and better trained extension service. The major crops affected
would be yams, cassava, maize, sorghum, cowpeas, benniseed and melons. Of the
total cropped area of 220,000 hectares, about 70,000 hectares (32%) would be
improved. The proposed extension staff to farmer ratio would be 1:500, result-
ing in an increase of extension staff from 42 at present to 120 at full
development. Smaller farmers would be encouraged to form groups to enable them
to make full use of farm advisory services, input delivery systems and farm
mechanization.
4.04      For larger units, financed by groups or individuals, a special farm
advisory system would be developed to provide land use planning, soil conser-
vation, tractor hire services, and crop rotation advice for proper long-term
farm systems. FMG has recently awarded an aerial photography contract which
covers the area and the photographs should be available to the project's
advisory service.
4.05      A small, but inefficient, MANR tractor hire service operates within
the project area. This would be incorporated into the farm advisory service,
and would be decentralized with initially two tractors for each FSC. Mainte-
nance and back-up facilities would be provided from headquarters. The project
would support private and cooperative tractor ownership for which the commercial
banks are willing to provide credit. To improve tractor use efficiency the
project would provide limited credit for land clearing. Both the clearing and
tractor services would be charged at full cost to the farmers.
4.06      Livestock Development (for details see Annex 3).  The project
would establish a Livestock Development Division that would incorporate
the existing small and poorly-equipped veterinary service. The main
objectives would be to establish four grazing reserves, improve cattle
trade routes, improve animal health through compulsory inoculation cam-
paigns, provide better cattle husbandry advice, and establish an improved
poultry exchange scheme. Four grazing reserves for the use of Fulani herds
would be established during the first three project years as follows: Keana
29,000 ha, Assaikio 24,000 ha, Awe 47,000 ha and Wuse 36,000 ha (see map).
Carrying capacity would increase from the current 20,000 animal units to
43,400 at full development. The proposed areas are uncultivated and already
used for grazing. However, reserving the areas is important and at nego-
tiations assurances were obtained that the grazing reserves would be properly



- 11 -
demarcated and gazetted no later than 12 months after signing of the loan
agreement. The reserves would be under proper management control with basic
infrastructural improvements such as stock handling and working facilities and
disease control measures. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
three traditional stock routes would be properly demarcated and night stop
facilities, including yard and water facilities, would be installed at 20 km
intervals. A livestock expert would be recruited under the project. Animal
health would be improved through the use of project-equipped mobile inoculation
teams, particularly against rinderpest and bovine pleuropneumonia. The teams
would also have responsibility for meat and hide inspection. The Division
would provide livestock husbandry advice to those farmers interested in mixed
farming with the objective of improving general nutritional and management
standards, and credit would be available for stall fattening. There is a
strong demand for improved poultry, and the project would operate two poultry
rearing units to provide Rhode Island Red and White Leghorn birds on a direct
exchange basis with village birds. Unit rearing capacity would be 4,500
pullets and 4,500 cockerels per annum.
4.07      Forestry Development (for details see Annex 4).  The project would
establish 2,200 ha of fuelwood and pole plantations in the vicinity of major
towns (Lafia, Doma, Awe, Obi and Assaikio). Five nurseries would be estab-
lished to provide seedlings, the main species being Eucalyptus and Gmelina.
The nurseries would sell these seedlings at cost to farmers, as well as other
seedlings including citrus and mango. The calculated farmer demand for fruit
trees and forestry seedlings would be about 120,000 per annum.   MANR would
assume postproject nursery management and LGC would manage the fuelwood and
pole plantations.
4.08      The project would expand charcoal production by encouraging the
use of traditional earth kilns and modern portable steel kilns. In addition,
training courses for project staff and local woodworkers would be conducted.
The project would support national forest species trials, assist in State-
wide forest planning and would provide technical assistance to local saw-
millers in the planning and extension of their operations. Actual finance
for the latter would come from the small-scale industries credit gcheme.
4.09      Fishery Development (for details see Annex 5).  The project would
provide some small improvements in fishing technology through better trained
fishery extension staff. Four 30-acre, bunded lagoons, controlled by sluice
gates, would be constructed and operated on a licensed fee basis as intensive
fishing areas. The lagoons would provide for better water control, breeding
and growing habitats. Fishery staff would promote improved, FAO-designed
fish-drying kilns in an effort to improve quality.
Infrastructural and Support Services
4.10      Road and Water Development (details at Annex 6).  Two hundred and
eighty kilometers of LGC roads would be reconstructed and 320 km of community
tracks would be improved to LGC standards. They would be simple laterite
roads supported by adequate culverting and drainage structures. Existing MOW
and LGC road departments do not have the capacity to implement the proposals.
In view of this and the acute shortage of local contracting capacity, and



- 12 -
the probable lack of interest of foreign contractors (as confirmed by the
Northern Agricultural Development Projects), the project would undertake
construction on force account with equipment and labor financed under the
project. The project would work closely with LGC to develop an adequate road
maintenance unit that could be operated by LGC at the end of the project
period.
4.11      Existing well-digging crews would be reorganized and 400 new wells
would be constructed and 100 existing wells rehabilitated. Wells would be
standardized, being 1.2 m in diameter, concrete lined, with the top raised
0.8 m above ground level. Hand pumps and well covers will be provided. LGC
would be responsible for their maintenance.
4.12      Buildings and Houses (details at Annex 6).  A considerable number
of buildings and houses are required, which would be constructed by local
contractors (foreign contractors are not excluded, but are generally not
competitive). The project would construct 33 senior, 50 intermediate, 112
junior, and 191 traditional staff houses; office headquarters; a training
center; a workshop complex; and 20 Farmers Service Centers. Designs success-
fully developed by the ongoing projects would be used where possible.
4.13      Seed Multiplication and Research (details at Annex 7).  The project
would make improvements to the existing seed multiplication and research
programs. A 150 ha farm would be established at Lafia to provide a nucleus
for surrounding outgrowers' multiplication farms (ultimately outgrower multi-
plicaton would cover 300 ha). Investments would include farm buildings,
farm machinery, seed-cleaning equipment, etc. The farm would allow for
demonstration and research. Seeds would be sold to farmers through the
project-established Farmers Service Centers (para 4.16). The project research
component would concentrate on applied research and would associate closely
with national and international research agencies. In particular it would
concentrate on variety trials, soil fertility and farming systems trials,
mechanization, minor crop trials, and, in association with the evaluation
unit, would undertake farm management studies.
4.14      Training (details at Annex 7).  A training division would be estab-
lished for training staff and farmers. A training center would be established
at Lafia with a 40-student capacity. Training under the project would be as
follows: (a) staff: scholarships for senior staff; upgrading courses for
various staff categories; residential courses for training agricultural instruc-
tors; and introductory courses for all project staff; (b) farmers: two mobile
audio-visual training units (which would visit two villages per day); day
courses at FSCs; short residential courses in the project training center;
production of radio programs; a program to inform teachers about agricultural
development; and a mobile home economics team.
4.15      Evaluation (details at Annex 7).  Evaluation of project activities
is important, particularly in an area where relatively little development
has previously been undertaken. Consequently an evaluation unit would be
established under the administrative control of the Project Manager but
technically responsible to the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation
and Planning Unit, APMEPU, located in Kaduna. The evaluation unit, comprising



- 13 -
40 enumerators and associated senior staff, would initially undertake a
baseline survey, followed by mainline surveys at two year intervals.
Other project/management orientated surveys would also be undertaken.
4.16      Commercial Services (for details see Annex 8).  Adequate input
supply facilities would be provided through strategically located Farmers
Service Centers.  Each FSC would be located on at least 2 ha, and would
comprise a fertilizer store (400-ton capacity), other small stores, offices,
houses for the storekeeper and other FSC staff, and a shed for teaching
purposes. FSCs would service farmers within a 15 km radius and would provide
seasonal farm inputs and equipment for cash or credit. At full development
the annual throughput of fertilizer and chemicals would be 14,000 and 400 tons
respectively. A market intelligence and advisory service to promote better
marketing and storage would be developed. Ironsheet, bins, cement and brick-
press would be provided on credit for construction of village stores. The
existing MANR produce inspection division would be improved. When necessary
the project would promote market contracts between producers and buyers, and
would act as an agent against commission in such cases. The project would be
authorized to act as a Licensed Buying Agent for those scheduled crops traded
in the area.
4.17      Logistical Support.  Logistical support would be provided in the
form of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, workshop and office equipment,
weigh scales, livestock and crop handling equipment, etc. Staff support
would include accountants, secretaries, clerical and store control personnel
funded under the project. Detailed requirements are at the relevent annexes.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Project Costs
5.01      Project costs for the period 1977-1982 are estimated at N 52.5
million (US$85 million); if taxes and duties are excluded costs would be
N 50.9 million (US$82.5 million). The foreign exchange component would be
N 16.4 million (US$27 million) or 32% of total costs.
5.02      Project costs are detailed in Annex 9 and summarized below.



- 14 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Total   Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local
-------N million-------   -------US$ million-----
Crop Development                   2.7      0.5      2.2       4.4       0.8       3.6
Farm Advisory Service 1/           2.8      0.8      2.0       4.6       1.4       3.2
Livestock Development              3.4       1.0     2.4       5.5       1.6       3.9
Forestry Development               1.7      0.2      1.5       2.7       0.3       2.4
Fishery Development               0.3       0.1      0.2       0.5       0.2       0.3
Roads and Water Supply             5.2      2.0      3.2       8.4       3.2       5.2
Management and Administration   4.7          1.5     3.2       7.6       2.4       5.2
Seed Multiplication                1.0      0.2      0.8       1.6       0.3       1.3
Research                          0.4       0.1      0.3       0.6       0.2       0.4
Training                           1.4      0.5      0.9       2.3       0.8       1.5
Evaluation                         1.6      0.3      1.3       2.6       0.5      2.1
Commercial Services               5.5       1.3      4.2       9.0       2.1       6.9
Subtotal                    30.7       8.5    22.2      49.8      13.8      36.0
Incremental Seed                  0.1        -       0.1       0.2       -         0.2
Incremental Fertilizer!
Insecticides                 2.5       1.8      0.7      4.0       2.9       1.1
Medium-Term Input Fund            0.5       0.3      0.2       0.8       0.5       0.3
Total Base Costs            33.8      10.6    23.2      54.8      17.2      37.6
Physical Contingencies             1.7      0.5      1.2       2.7       0.8       1.9
Price Contingencies              17.0       5.3    11.7       27.5       8.6      18.9
Total Project Costs         52.5      16.4    36.1      85.0      26.6      58.4
1/   Includes tractor hire services (36%) and land use planning.



- 15 -
5.03      If livestock, forestry and fishery development are excluded, the
baseline cost (in constant 1976 terms) per farm family would be N 470. This
can be compared with N 250, N 255, and N 400 per farm family for the Funtua,
Gusau, and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects respectively. 1/
The high cost per farm family is due mainly to higher overheads, a more
extensive area to be served and substantially increased local staff costs.
Costs are also higher than the Ayangba Agricultural Development Project,
reflecting the latter's substantial economies of scale.
5.04      Cost estimates are based on price data and quotes obtained during
appraisal, updated to reflect end-1976 prices. Project costs include a 5%
physical contingency. Price contingencies are calculated on base costs
plus physical contingencies and allow for compounded increases based on
the following annual percentages: 1977, 20%; 1978, 15%; 1979, 12%; and 10%
from 1980 onwards. These estimates take account of substantial internal
inflation, 40% in 1975, and of international inflation for imports. Cost
estimates exclude the costs of land compensation for roads and building sites.
In those circumstances where compensation payments are made, additional funds
would be provided by the State Government.
5.05      In order to facilitate Government financing and budgetary arrange-
ments, the cost of staff salaries, allowances and administrative expenses has
been estimated on a gross basis, and includes existing insignificant Government
expenditures (less than 1% of total project costs). All other costs are
estimated on a strictly incremental basis.
Financing Arrangements
5.06      The financing plan is detailed in Annex 10 and summarized below.
1/   Based on revised supervision mission estimates in 1976 terms.



- 16 -
DETAILED FINANCING PLAN
State
Category                             %       Total         IBRD       Government
---------------N million----------------
Development Investments
Houses/Buildings                     11         5.9         1.7          4.2
Vehicles                              6         3.0         2.4           0.6
Other Equipment/Materials             2         1.1         0.6          0.5
Other Development                     3         1.4          -            1.4
22
Operating Expenses
International Staff                   4         2.2         2.2
Local Staff                          25        13.2         2.5         10.7
Operating Costs                       8         3.9          -           3.9
7
Farm Inputs
Seed                                 -          0.1          -           0.1
Fertilizer/Insecticides               5         2.5         1.8          0.7
Medium-Term Inputs                    1         0.5          -           0.5
6
Unallocated                          35        18.7         5.4         13.3
Total Costs                   100        52.5        16.6          35.9
--------US $ million-------
85.0        27.0         58.0
5.07       The Bank loan of US$27 million would finance 32% of project costs
net of taxes and would be equivalent to the project foreign exchange costs.
The loan would be for 20 years, including 4.5 years grace on repayment of
principal. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the amount would
be relent by FMG to Plateau State under a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Borrower and the State on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
It was also agreed that the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness.
5.08       The remaining funds, N 35.9 million (US$58 million), would be fi-
nanced through the State budget. However, the State would receive an FMG
subvention of N 13.1 million (US$21.3 million), equivalent to 25% of project
costs. During negotiations assurances were obtained that not less than



- 17 -
N 13.1 million would be allocated in the FMG budget for this purpose. FMG has
already allocated N 9 million for the project under the Third National Develop-
ment Plan (1975-1980) and the balance would be allocated under the Fourth
Plan.
5.09      Farm inputs are costed on an incremental basis but fertilizers
are sold at subsidized prices. Therefore, in addition to financing project
costs an estimated N 4 million would be required to cover these subsidies.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that FMG would reimburse LPMU
for fertilizer subsidies no later than three months after delivery to project
stores.
5.10      The project would be implemented during the five-year period
1978-1982, but 1977 (Year 0) would be the start-up period, and expenditures
during Year 0 would be met totally by the State. However, to speed up project
implementation, key international staff would be recruited soon after negotia-
tions, and it was agreed that retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 would
be made available for recruitment costs and staff emoluments as of November 1,
1976 (when recruitment procedures were initiated).
Procurement
5.11      Vehicles, tractors, road-making equipment, other equipment, mate-
rials, fertilizers, 1/ insecticides and other farm inputs valued at about
US$11.5 million would be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines for those contracts valued over US$75,000,
and through competitive bidding and in accordance with local procedures for
contracts of less than US$75,000. For contracts under US$10,000, direct com-
petitive shopping would be employed. Domestically manufactured goods would
be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
Experience has shown that contracts for buildings, houses and FSC complexes
valued at US$9.7 million are not attractive to foreign contractors due to
dispersed locations, small size of contracts and competition of local contrac-
tors; such contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding. Construction of small dams, roads and wells would be undertaken by
the project on force account, a practice that is proving successful on the
northern projects. Construction by force account is necessary due to the
scattered nature of the works, the need for fast and flexible construction,
and the acute shortage of contractors able or willing to undertake the work.
A large part of project cost would be salaries, operating expenses, training
costs, nursery operations and seed purchases, valued at US$30.1 million, which
are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The services of consultants and
expatriate staff valued at US$3.5 million would be obtained in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. An amount of U$30.2 million would
cover contingencies.
1/   For further details clarifying fertilizer procurement, see Annex 8,
Appendix 1.



- 18 -
Disbursement
5.12      The Bank loan would be disbursed during the five-year period 1978-
1982 as follows:
- 100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported vehicles,
tractors, road-making equipment and spare parts (or 70% of the cost of
these items if locally procured) totaling US$3.8 million.
- 100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported equipment,
furnishings and materials (or 70% of the costs of these items if locally
procured) totaling US$1.0 million.
- 100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported fertilizer
and insecticides calculated incrementally (or 70% of the cost of these
items if locally procured) totaling US$3.0 million.
- 100% of the costs of internationally recruited staff including their
salaries, allowances and recruitment costs, and of consulting services
and scholarships totaling US$3.5 million.
- 40% of the costs of buildings and houses totaling US$2.8 million.
- 20% of the costs of local staff totaling US$4.0 million.
- An unallocated amount of US$8.9 million.
5.13      Disbursements would be fully documented.  Disbursement against the
cost of local staff would be against certified records of expenditures the
documentation of which would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be re-
tained by LPMU for review by supervision missions and the auditors.
Budgets, Accounts and Audits
5.14      Annual and quarterly budgets would be prepared by LPMU for approval
by LPEC. LPMU would establish monthly cash flow statements which would be
submitted to LPEC for monitoring, but the project would be authorized to
operate on the basis of these statements unless informed otherwise by the
Chairman of LPEC. LPMU would prepare quarterly and annual progress reports,
including summaries of project expenditures and use of funds, for prompt
submission to the Bank.
5.15      On the basis of the approved annual project budget, the State and
Federal Governments would make appropriate budget allocations and thereafter
would make available to LPMU all necessary funds quarterly and in advance.
During negotiations it was agreed that as a condition of loan effectiveness a
project bank account would be established with adequate funds.
5.16      LPMU would keep adequate records to reflect its operations and
financial position in accordance with sound accounting practices, and would
have these accounts audited by a firm of independent external auditors accept-
able to the Bank. The audited accounts and the auditor's report would be



- 19 -
submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year. The
project would maintain a central accounting system from which would be drawn
the project's consolidated statements. In addition, project activities
identified as potentially self-sustaining commercial units, such as farm
input supply, would have separate sets of financial statements prepared along
commercial lines. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
requirements set out in paras 5.14, 5.15 and 5.16 would be established to the
satisfaction of the Bank.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization
6.01      The project organization would be modeled on the three Northern
Agricultural Development Projects which so far have proved successful.
The project would be executed by a largely autonomous and independent
unit under the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources; and its orga-
nization would consist of the Lafia Project Executive Committee (LPEC) and
the Lafia Project Management Unit (LPMU). During negotiations it was agreed
that as condition of loan effectiveness Plateau State would publish in the
Gazette a notice establishing LPMU and LPEC in a form and with powers and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
6.02      LPEC would have full authority for project execution, and would
approve budgets, appoint senior staff, deal with major procurement matters
and award all large contracts. LPEC membership would include: Permanent
Secretary, MANR (Chairman); a representative of each of the Ministries of
Finance and Economic Planning, Local Government, Works and Trade, Industries
and Cooperatives; a representative of the Water Board; two representatives
of the project area appointed by the Military Governor upon recommendation
of the LGC Advisory Committees; Chief Agricultural Officer; Chief Veterinary
Officer; Chief Conservator of Forests; Chief Fisheries Officer; Project
Manager; and the Project's Director of Administration (Secretary).
6.03      Project organization is detailed in Annex 7 and Supplement 10, and
consists of four major departments: Administration, Commercial Services,
Development Services, and Engineering. In addition, an Evaluation Officer and
Stores Control Officer would be responsible directly to the Project Manager.
6.04      Relations with the local people would be maintained through two
Local Advisory Committees. Membership of each committee would include the
Chairman of LGC as Chairman; two representatives of LGC; representatives of
the Lafia Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union; all District Heads; the four
project Department Directors; and a Senior Administrative Officer (Secretary).
6.05      Where possible the project would control all existing MANR faci-
lities in the area. Hlowever, irrigation schemes and forest reserves have been
excluded, as the former are now controlled by the River Basin Development
Authority, and the latter are currently being considered for commercial
exploitation.



- 20 -
Staffing
6.06      The project is both large and complex and requires a high level
of management efficiency and technical competence. Well-educated and
trained personnel are available in Nigeria, but, because of fast economic
growth particularly in the industrial sector, the creation of seven new
States, and the difficulty of employing personnel from other States, demand
on available manpower is high. The most critical period will be start-up
year and the subsequent two or three years of project implementation when
basic structures have to be developed, systems tested and modified, and
staff trained at all levels. Although where possible, qualified and
experienced Nigerians would be recruited, many key positions would have
to be filled through international recruitment. Key project staff include
the Project Manager and the Heads of the Administration, Commercial Services,
Development Services and Engineering Departments, and during negotiations
assurances were obtained that they would be appointed with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of service satisfactory to the Bank, and
that staff appointments for the Heads of all Divisions (Annex 7, Table 2)
would be suitably qualified and experienced and would be appointed by LPEC in
consultation with the Project Manager. Qualifications and job descriptions
for all senior staff have been prepared and are in the supplementary annexes.
6.07      The Agricultural Projects Management Unit of the Bank's West African
Region is assisting in recruitment and contract administration of international
staff, and is currently advertising for and recruiting staff for the project.
Internationally recruited staff would be employed either under direct Govern-
ment contract or seconded under standard World Bank secondment contract.
Staff cost would be debited against the special prefinancing fund, established
under a memorandum of understanding of June 30, 1975, between the Bank and
FMG, which will be replenished when the loan becomes effective.
6.08      Local staff recruitment and terms and conditions of employment would
vary. Those employed by the State Government would be transferred to the
project. However, additional incentives including housing allowances and
higher salary levels would be provided. Other staff would be directly re-
cruited and employed on three-year renewable contracts. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that Government would transfer adequate numbers of
competent staff to LPMU.
Input Delivery and Credit Arrangements
6.09      The project would be responsible for procurement, distribution and
sale of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, sprayers and other farm inputs and
equipment. Distribution would be made through the Farmers Service Centers
(FSC), of which 20 would be built under the project (see para 4.16). Gen-
erally, five FSCs would be supervised and coordinated by a Development Center
(DC).
6.10      An Assistant Agricultural Superintendent would be responsible for
FSC operation and its staff, including a Storekeeper, Salesman and, as of
Year 3, a Marketing Assistant. DC staffing would involve an Agricultural



- 21 -
Superintendent, a Sales Supervisor, a Marketing Advisor, and a Credit Officer
and Credit Assistants. Marketing staff would build up during the project
period, initially at DC level.
6.11      A radio link would be established with APMEPU and Kaduna to
provide good communications and to make the project delivery system more
effective. Internal project radio networks would link DCs with project
headquarters and, through vehicle radios, with senior staff and road bri-
gades.
6.12      Issues relating to fundamental policy questions, including sub-
sidies and interest rates, are referred to at Chapter II. Current Govern-
ment policies are unavoidable and have to be reflected at project level.
Consequently at current fertilizer subsidy levels (80%), it is unlikely
that seasonal credit would be required, and where possible, sales would
be on a cash basis, although deferred payment against a 10% price markup
would be available for group orders. Medium to long term credit (maximum
five-year loan) would be available to farmers and farmers groups, under
advisement from the project's farm advisory service, for land clearing,
sprayers, farm equipment and for storage improvement. Farmers would pay
a 10% service charge and in general interest rates would follow the Nigerian
Agricultural Bank rate and would vary between 5.5% and 9% per annum, with the
specific rate to be charged each year to be determined by LPEC. Within the
above parameters, the farm advisory service would determine the detailed terms
of each loan. Where possible, and following the lead of the ongoing projects,
the commercial banks and NAB would be encouraged to take responsibility for
servicing the medium and long term credit requirements as and when demand
grows.
Postproject Development
6.13      There are two possible alternatives for postproject development
after 1982. A second phase project could be contemplated, in which case the
proposed project organization would be continued. Alternatively the project
unit could be partly dismantled and road and well maintenance could revert
to LGC. The commercial department could be incorporated as a company to pro-
vide inputs, credit and marketing services to farmers on a commercial basis.
The administration and development services departments could remain under
MANR or might conceivably be handed over to LGCs. Indications from the
ongoing Northern Agricultural Development Projects are that State and Federal
Governments are aware of the possible postproject development problems and
a flexible approach is being taken early in the implementation cycle to test
possible solutions; it is likely that the final outcome could with some
modifications be applicable to the proposed project. Assurances were obtained
that before the end of the project period (1981), agreement would be reached
between FMG, the State Government, and the Bank on the future of the project.



- 22 -
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMER BENEFITS, AND
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT
Yields and Production
7.01      Due to the complexity of cropping patterns throughout the project
area the expected incremental production is difficult to estimate. From
research data and other information yield potentials have been assessed and
are presented as single crop hectare budgets in Annex 2. An estimated 150,000
ha is cultivated in the area, 70,000 ha under full season crops and 80,000 ha
under early and late season crops. Farmers grow a whole range of crops, the
proportion changing annually depending on family and market needs. Produc-
tion forecasts have been set to provide a logical parameter within which input
requirements and benefits are estimated. Total area cropped annually would
be 220,000 ha, of which 70,000 ha (32%) is estimated to give improved and
advanced yields under the project. This covers major crops although devel-
opment of other crops would not be excluded. Areas developed during the
project period, partly determined on the basis of good farmer response in the
Northern Agricultural Projects, and incremental production are summarized (for
details see Annex 2) below:
Without 1/
Project         With Project at Full Development       Incremental 2/
Traditional   Traditional    Improved       Advanced       Production
area  yield/  area  yield/  area  yield/ area  yield/ Due to Project
ha     ha     ha      ha     ha      ha    ha      ha       tons '000
'000   tons   '000   tons   '000   tons  '000   tons
Full Season
Crops
Yams        37.5   6.0    17.5   6.0    20.0   13.0    -          -       92.0
Cassava     22.5   5.0    15.0   5.0       5.0   10.0   2.5   15.0        50.0
Rice          7.5   0.8     1.5   0.8      3.0    1.8   3.0    2.5          7.9
Early Season
Crops
Maize       37.5   0.75   20.0   0.75   10.0    1.75   -          -        4.1
Melon         3.75  0.35    2.0   0.35    1.75   0.70   -         -        0.6
Late Season
Crops
Sorghum     45.0   0.60   29.5   0.60   12.0    1.20   -          -        4.8
Maize         7.5   0.60    3.0   0.60    4.5    1.75   -         -         4.8
Cowpeas       3.75  0.25    3.0   0.25    4.5    1.50   -         -        5.8
Benniseed   11.25  0.23    5.75  0.23    5.5    0.60   -          -        2.0
1/   All crop yields estimated at traditional levels.
2/   Net of seed supply and storage losses.



- 23 -
7.02      In the forestry plantations an eight-year cutting is assumed.  Growth
is estimated at 15 m3/ha annually, which would produce 120 m3/ha, giving an
estimated produce mix of 1,000 poles (4 m x 12 m) and 80 m3 firewood. An
average 30-acre fishing lagoon is estimated to yield 20 tons of fish annually.
The grazing reserves presently carry an estimated 20,000 animal units (1
animal unit per 6.7 ha) and this will increase to an estimated 43,400 animal
units (1 animal unit per 3.1 ha). Better range management combined with im-
proved health control would result in the following improved technical coeffi-
cient: calving rate 55% to 70%; adult mortality 8% to 5%; calf mortality 16%
to 8%; and steer maturity 5 years to 4 years.
Marketing and Prices
7.03      Annual incremental grain and root crop production generated by the
project is expected, in Year 5, to reach 30,000 tons and 142,000 tons respec-
tively. Though substantial this should be readily absorbed without a signifi-
cant impact on domestic prices. Consumption in the area is expected to
increase but there are also nearby market outlets. Food supply and demand
forecasts in Nigeria indicate that with a rising market-dependent urban popu-
lation, foodcrop deficits of 1.2 million tons of grains and 2.5 million of
roots can be expected by 1985 unless present levels of productivity are
increased. As a rule foodcrops such as those supported by the project are
traded through regular private channels. Marketing arrangements and facili-
ties although adequate would be further improved through project actions.
7.04      Prices for various crops, detailed in Annex 11, are based on IBRD
forecasts, or on retail value in Nigeria. Farmgate prices used are fore-
casts for 1980 in 1976 constant terms, summarized as follows:
Economic              Financial
1976      1980         1976       1980
--------Constant 1976 Naira/ton-----
Yams (domestic retail)                   74        67         68          61
Cassava (domestic retail)               23         22         20          19
Husk Rice (import substitution)          99       143.5      202.5 2/   135.5
Early Maize 1/ (import subsitution)   93           92         91          90
Millet (domestic retail)                103         99.5      95          92
Melon (domestic retail)                 310       291        288         268
Sorghum (import substitution)            98.5      95        101.5        98
Late Maize 1/ (import substitution)   97            96.5      95.5        94
Cowpeas (domestic retail)               188       181        174         167
Benniseed (export parity)               175       175        275 3/      158.5
1/   Difference due to different estimates for storage losses.
2/   Based on prices presently paid by millers.
3/   Based on Marketing Board intervention price.



- 24 -
Farm Benefits
7.05      Typical farm models have not been prepared, as farm sizes and
production patterns vary considerably. Direct benefits to farmers are
evaluated from single crop budgets and overall benefits on the basis of
these budgets and assumed adoption rates for various crops. Net returns (at
actual farmgate prices) per hectare and per manday resulting from the
proposed technology improvements are summarized below (details in Annex 2):
Incremental
Without Project            With Project               Return
Net Return      Net Return Net Return    Net Return per incremental
per ha        per manday   per ha        per manday      manday
-------------------------------Naira------------------------------
Yams                274               1.6          612           2.4           4.5
Cassava (improved)  95                1.1          190           1.5           2.4
Cassava (advanced)  -                 -            271           1.8           4.1
Rice (improved)    157                1.4          346           2.2           4.2
Rice (advanced)      -                 -           475           2.7           4.9
Maize(early season) 65                1.0          145           1.5           2.7
Maize(late season)  55                1.0          151           1.7           2.8
Melon                94               1.3          184           1.7           2.3
Sorghum              58               1.1          110           1.4           2.1
Cowpeas              40              0.7           226           1.8           2.7
Benniseed            57               1.3          147           2.3           4.5
7.06      Based on a hypothetical 2.5 ha farm that has a typical cropping pat-
tern for the area, farm incomes would increase from N 358 (US$580) to N 568
(US$920) or 58%. Per capita incomes (average family size estimated at 6.5)
would increase from N 55 (US$89) to N 87 (US$141). Stall fattening could
provide additional benefits of about N 30 per head of cattle.
Financial Implications for Government
7.07      The project does not increase directly-generated revenue to Govern-
ment as there are no taxes or cesses on farmers' produce. However, evidence
from the ongoing projects suggests that considerable secondary economic
activity develops within the vicinity of the project, with the development
of commercial servicing agencies and minor industries; and there is a marked
increase in consumer goods supply. Indirect Government taxation must therefore
increase considerably. Costs would be recovered where practical; for example,
tree seedlings would be sold at full cost, and levies would be charged for
fishing the lagoons and grazing the reserves. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that commercial charges reflecting full production costs
(see paras 4.07 and 4.08) would be charged for tree seedlings; fees would be
levied for fishing the lagoons (see para 4.09); income from additional sales
would cover costs of poultry units (see para 4.06), and cost recovery proce-
dures, for the above and other FSC-supplied farm inputs, would be reviewed
annually with the Bank. Cash flows for the Federal and State Governments are
at Annex 11. As expected, substantial negative balances are accrued to both
the Federal and State Government budgets. Certain reductions could be made if



- 25 -
for example fertilizer subsidies were reduced. However, generally these
negative cash flows are typical of such a project, and under present Nigerian
circumstances can be justified as a means of transferring oil revenues to the
rural population. In summary, the State Government would provide an average of
N 4.8 million (US$7.7 million) per annum during the project development
period, and thereafter, N 2.8 million (US$4.5 million) annually in order to
maintain its services in the area. During project implementation, the Federal
Government would provide 25% of total project costs, N 2.1 million (US$3.4
million) annually, and a rising subsidy payment, leveling off at N 1.5
million (US$2.4 million) per annum in the fifth year of the project.
Servicing of the Bank loan, included in the above State Government cash
flow, would peak at N 2.6 million (US$4.2 million) in Year 5, with a gradual
decrease to N 1.2 million (US$1.9 million) in Year 20.
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
8.01      The project would in one way or another benefit some 60,000 rural
farm families by providing improved services and a means to improve farm
incomes. Direct project benefits would be annual incremental production at
full development of 92,000 tons of yams; 50,000 tons of cassava; 7,900 tons
of rice; 8,900 tons of maize; 600 tons of melon; 4,800 tons of sorghum; 5,800
tons of cowpeas and 2,000 tons of benniseed; partly offset by a reduction in
millet output at 1,600 tons. At full development fish catches are estimated
at 120 tons annually and incremental meat production would be 818 tons per
year. Since most production would be traded locally, foreign exchange savings/
earnings would be a modest US$5.6 million annually.
8.02      The project would have substantial but largely unquantifiable
secondary benefits. The project area would benefit from infrastructure
improvements including improved roads and water supplies. The development of
farmers groups would provide a better basis for economic farm support services
and the project would strengthen agricultural, technical, managerial and
planning capabilities in the State.
8.03      The economic rate of return is estimated at 23%.  Principal assump-
tions are in Annex 12, including the sensitivity analysis which shows that
the rate of return remains attractive even under adverse circumstances. A 20%
reduction in benefits together with a 20% increase in costs reduces the rate
of return to 13%. Delayed benefits of one year result in a rate of return of
18%. The rates of return for forestry plantations, fishery lagoons, and
grazing reserves are 10.4%, 22% and 20% respectively. If livestock, forestry
and fishery development, and research and evaluation are excluded, the rate of
return becomes 33%. The high rate of return is consistent with similar ongoing
projects in northern Nigeria where farmer response has been good. High returns



- 26 -
are due to minimal long-term farm investments and to dramatic yield increases
due to new, but relatively simple and low cost, technological introductions
applied to annual crops that currently have very low yields. Even so, farmers'
response estimates are difficult to assess accurately; however, analysis shows
that if project administration and service costs remain constant, but response
is lower than anticipated with a commensurate reduction in farm inputs, the
project would still be economically viable (10% economic rate of return) if
the area under improved production were reduced from 70,000 ha to 28,000 ha.
8.04      Smallholder agricultural development projects are inherently and
conceptually complex and full attainment of project benefits might conceivably
be jeopardized by risks and uncertainties, particularly through delays in
implementation and inadequate staffing. Risks due to technical weaknesses
are less as the technical packages are fairly simple and are based on research
data and experience obtained elsewhere in Nigeria. A major advantage for
project implementation will be the experience to date with the Northern Agri-
cultural Development Projects.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) Government would provide the completed Dep irrigation feas-
ibility study to the Bank for its comments, and that no final
decisions regarding the proposals and recommendations would
be taken without prior review with the Bank (AR para 3.16; PA
Section 2.06); 1/
(b) grazing reserves would be properly demarcated and gazetted and
three stock routes, with appropriate improvements, would be
demarcated (AR para 4.06; PA Section 2.07);
(c) the loan would be relent by FMG to Plateau State under a sub-
sidiary agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (AR para 5.08; LA Section 3.01(b));
(d)  FMG would allocate in its budget not less than N 13.1 million
towards the cost of the project (AR para 5.08; LA Section 3.02);
(e)  FMG would reimburse LPMU for fertilizer subsidies not later
than three months after delivery to project stores (AR para 5.09;
LA Section 3.04);
(f) budgetary, accounting and reporting procedures would be satis-
factory to the Bank; that accounts would be audited by in-
dependent auditors, and that audited accounts and auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within four months of
the end of the fiscal year (AR paras 5.14, 5.15 and 5.16; LA
Sections 3.06 and 3.07; PA Sections 3.02 and 3.03);
1/   AR = Appraisal Report; LA = Loan Agreement; PA = Project Agreement.



- 27 -
(g) the Project Manager and the Heads of Administration, Com-
mercial Services, Development Services and Engineering would
be appointed with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (AR para 6.06; PA Section
2.03(a));
(h) staff appointments for the Heads of all Divisions would be
suitably qualified and experienced and would be apointed by LPEC
in consultation with the Project Manager (AR para 6.06; PA
Section 2.03(b));
(i) Government would transfer adequate numbers of competent staff to
LPMU (AR para 6.08; PA Section 2.03(c));
(j) before the end of the project period (1981) agreement would
be reached among FMG, the State Government and the Bank
on the future of the project (AR para 6.13; LA Section 3.05;
PA Section 2.08); and
(k) commercial charges reflecting full production costs would be
charged for the tree seedlings; fees would be levied for
fishing the lagoons and grazing the reserves; income from
additional sales would cover costs of poultry units; and that
cost recovery procedures for the above and other FSC-supplied
farm inputs would be reviewed annually with the Bank (AR para
7.07; PA Section 3.04).
9.02      During negotiations it was agreed that conditions of loan effective-
ness would include:
(a) signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between FMG
and Plateau State (AR para 5.07; LA Section 6.01(b));
(b) Plateau State establishing a project bank account with
adequate funds (AR para 5.15; LA Section 6.01(c)); and
(c) Plateau State publishing in the Gazete a notice estab-
lishing LPMU and LPEC in a form and with powers and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (AR para 6.01;
LA Section 6.01(d); PA Section 2.02).
9.03      It was agreed that as of November 1, 1976, retroactive financing of
up to US$400,000 would be made available for the appointment of key interna-
tional staff (AR para 5.10, LA Schedule 1, para 4). The cost of international
staff would be funded from the prefinancing fund established under a memoran-
dum of understanding of June 30, 1975, between the Bank and PMG. This fund
would be reimbursed from the loan account following loan effectiveness (AR
para 6.07).
9.04      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$27 million.






ANNEX 1
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area
A. Description
1.        Location.  The project area lies between latitudes 70 45' and 90 10'
N, longitudes 80 and 90 37' E, occupying a total of 940,000 hectares. It com-
prises the whole of Lafia and Awe Local Government Council (LGC) areas, which
contains six administrative districts: Doma, Lafia, Assaikio, Obi, Keana and
Awe. The area is bounded to the west, south and east by the Mada, Benue, and
Dep rivers. To the north, and where boundaries depart from the main water-
courses, there are no distinct topographical features. It lies entirely
within the catchment of the Benue river, and is characterized by a gently
undulating topography rising to below 250 meters over most of the area, but
extending in the northeast towards the higher and more dissected physiography
of the Benue escarpment. The major rivers are bordered by extensive flood
plain areas, and elevation falls to 60 meters along the Benue river in the
southwest.
2.        Climate.  The rainfall pattern follows the north-south movement of
the intertropical convergence zone and is characterized by a long wet season
of eight months which is marginally bimodal, followed by a short but intense
dry season. Spasmodic rainfall commences during March but is not agriculturally
effective until early April. There is a steady increase in rainfall distribution
from March and rainfall peaks in September, but there are two shallow troughs
at the end of June and in early August. From early September rainfall crops
sharply and effectively ceases by the end of October. The annual rainfall for
Lafia town, based on recordings since 1938, is 1,280 mm, of which only about
15 mm falls between the end of October to the end of February. Rainfall data
are presented in Table 1 and in Chart 16364 attached to this annrex    igures
for the 10 years from 1955 to 1964 for stations outside Lafia Distrz t are
Lokoja, 1,180 mm: Makurdi, 1,318 mm; and Ibi, 1,132 mm. Rainfall decreases
to about 1,200 mm in the southwest and about 1,150 mm in the southeast. The
maximum for Lafia town is 1,724 mm, and the minimum is 950 mm. It is estimated
that potential evapotranspiration is greater than rainfall in 5-7 months of
the year, between October and April.
3.        Hours of sunshine per day decline during the rains to an August
low of 4 to 5 hours and a February high of around 8 hours. Mean air tempera-
tures have a more marked bimodal character. The peak is in March with tempera-
tures around 360C, falling to 250C in late August and rising again to 27 in
October. The mean diurnal range varies from about 100C in July to 25 in
January.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Soils.  Most of the area is underlain by sedimentary marine and
continental deposits of the cretacious period. The sediments are predominantly
sandstone and shale; the soils are ferruginous, weakly buffered and of low
exchange capacity. In many places, particularly in the eastern section of
the area, the underlying ironstone pans are fairly shallow and occasionally
surface. Where soils are shallow, cultivation intensity is very low.
5.        North of a NE/SW line passing just north of Lafia town is a densely
cultivated sandstone belt comprising roughly 13% of the project area and
containing predominantly deep (150 cm), well-drained, coarse-textured, sandy
soils which are moderately acid and low in organic matter and nutrients.
Within this area are pockets of strongly acid, gravelly or concretionary
soils which support only limited cultivation. To the south are additional
sandstone bands supporting more moderate cultivation and with a correspondingly
higher proportion of acid concretionary soils and iron pans which are largely
uncultivated. Separating the bands are sparse or uncultivated areas of moder-
ately acid shale soils with poor drainage, coarse texture, generally gravelly
surfaces, iron pans and outcroppings. Such areas comprise some 45% of total
project area but do include pockets of the better sandstone soils previously
described. Along the river flood plains and valley bottoms soils are mainly
deep, imperfectly drained, alluvial, strongly acid, low in nutrients and
liable to flooding. They comprise around 5% of total area and in parts are
intensively cultivated.
6.        Overall, the soils are low in organic matter and exchangeable
cations and generally low in cation exchange capacity. They cannot sustain
intensive cropping for long periods and recuperate slowly during fallow. The
generally low soil nutrient status and poor crop yields presently obtained
indicate that good responses to N, P and K would be achieved. Other nutrients
may also be in short supply but information to this effect is not available.
The soils are likely to be poor in their ability to hold inorganic fertilizers
and a high rate of leaching must be expected; small applications in split
dressing should be initially recommended. The generally acid soils (pH 5.6 - 6.5)
would also favor non-acidifying nutrient sources, particularly at high application
rates. Crop analysis is based on sulphate of ammonia and single superphosphates
since these are presently used and more readily available. If farmer response
to fertilizer is high and application rates increase, use of calcium ammonia
nitrate may be preferable. Use of balanced compound fertilizer could also be
considered during project implementation.
7.        A land resource survey of central Nigeria is currently being under-
taken by the Land Resources Division of the UK Ministry of Overseas Develop-
ment. This survey covers the project area and although an official report is
not yet published; a soil classification map has been completed and is reproduced
in Map 12332 attached to this annex. The related soil classification is in
Table 2.
8.        Ecology.  The area lies within the southern Guinea savannah zone,
but the ecology has been influenced by population density and the relative
degrees of the woody vegetation's fire tolerance. The main species in the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
rarely cultivated areas and in the savannah forest reserves, growing to a
height of 5 to 10 m, are Uapaca spp; Lophira lanceolata; Butyrospermum parkii
(shea nut); Detarium senegalense; Daniellia oliveri; and Bridelia sp; these
areas have a light herb layer and fairly dense, coarse perennial grasses.
Along and near watercourses remnants of oil palm groves (Elaeis guineensis)
and fan palm groves (Borassus aethiopum) remain, usually as isolated trees.
Valuable timber trees occur in the high fores lying along the main streams,
and the best of these have been gazetted as forest reserves. Species include
Chlorophora excelsa (Iroko); Khaya grandifoliola (mahogany); Nauclea
diderrichii; Aubrevillea kerstingii; Triplochiton scleroxylon (Obeche);
and Khaya senegalensis. In the more intensively cultivated areas, Lophira,
Butyrospermum, Daniellia and Parkia clappertoniana (locust bean) predominate.
9.        Population.  The area's population is of varied ethnic origin and
over 20 tribal communities are represented. (Those of numerical importance
are the Alago, Tiv, Kanuri, Eggon, Migili, Fulani, Birawa and Gwandarc.) No
recent population figures are available, as the results of the 1973 census
(although subjected to postsurvey evaluation) have never been published and
are not available for planning purposes. The latest census figures available
are those for 1963 which show a total population of 289,659.
10.       A notable feature of the area's population is the steady rate of
immigration of cultivators particularly since the end of the Civil War in
1970; this is significant in that during project implementation a substantial
increase in rural farm families, and hence total cultivated area, must be
expected. This migration, though unrecorded and uncontrolled, is fully
recognized by local officials and visually identified by comparative analysis
of air survey photographs for 1963 and 1973.
11.       Population estimates are therefore necessarily tentative.  The 1973
population was estimated by using a 2.6% growth rate, followed by a 4% growth
rate for 1973-1980 to reflect the steady increase in the area's population;
on this basis, population is estimated at about 500,000 in 1980. With about
80% of the population engaged in rural activities and an estimated family
size of 6 to 7, the number of rural families would be about 60,000 by 1980,
cultivating approximately 150,000 ha by that time (based on an average holding
size of 2.5 ha). Details are in Table 3.
12.       Settlement patterns vary according to ethnic origins, with slightly
more than half the population concentrated in large nucleated villages while
the remainder, notable the Tiv, live in small isolated hamlets. However, in
the latter case there are complex consanguine links between these isolated
hamlets. Most settlements are concentrated along road and rail lines though
temporary houses may be used during the growing season, when distant fields
are cultivated.
13.       Traditional social organization is likewise a function of ethnic
background, and at the local level authority is vested in traditional headmen
and chiefs, who act as arbitrators in minor disputes, organize community
undertakings and generally attend to local needs. The hierarchy extends



ANNEX 1
Page 4
through Government-recognized, salaried village and district heads to
the jurisdiction of the Lafia Emirate. The traditional authority is widely
respected and exerts considerable influence on all sections of the community.
The inherent discipline, established system of communication, and logical
sequence of grouping offered by such a situation would be of great benefit
to project management which would seek to establish a close liaison with
the traditional leaders from the outset.
14.       Services.  The project area is served by road and rail, supplemented
by small river transport. Roads are the most important mode of transport both
in terms of volume and provision of access to inhabited areas. The main con-
nections between the project area and the rest of the country are generally
satisfactory. The railway linking northern Nigeria with Port Harcourt passes
through the project area, with four railway stations spaced at about 15 km
intervals. The main Federal trunk road between Enugu in the north and Port
Harcourt, runs nearly parallel to the railway and also traverses the project
area; a Federal trunk road linking the Lafia division with Shendam to the
east is under construction. Secondary road connections lead only north and
south because of the obstacle formed by the Dep river to the east and the
Mada river to the west. All Federal trunk roads are or will shortly be
provided with asphalt surface, whereas secondary and tertiary roads are
laterite or earth surfaced.   Four Government entities are involved in the
transport system: the Federal Government is responsible for the trunk roads
(174 km); the State Government, for the secondary roads (243 km); the Local
Government Council (LGC) for the tertiary roads (360 km); and the Nigerian
Railway Corporation for the railway. In addition local communities have,
by volunteer labor, built and maintained about 800 km of farm tracks. Federal
roads are well-built and satisfactorily maintained whereas the rest of the
network is badly maintained and during the rainy season many roads are
impassable. All transportation of goods by road is controlled by private
firms and individual truckers. A limited service is operated on the Benue
river at Tunga by a private company. Bus services, largely unscheduled and
operated by owner/drivers, provide passenger transport to most villages when
roads are motorable. For further details on roads and road development (see
Annex 6).
15.       Water supplies are generally unsatisfactory in terms of quality and
accesssibility. Only Lafia town has a reticulated supply while the rural
population relies entirely on streams and wells, many of which are both
seasonal and contaminated. Under the project additional wells would be
constructed (see Annex 6).
16.       Educational and medical facilities are also rudimentary, though
considerable expansion of the former is planned under the program for Universal
Primary Education. There are three secondary schools (Lafia, Obi and Doma)
and two teachers training colleges (Lafia and Obi). The situation for primary
education as of January 1, 1976 was: 93 schools with 446 classes, 493 teachers
and 16,600 pupils. There is a divisional hospital in Lafia and health
centers in Awe and Obi (about 20-30 more health centers or clinics are
planned). There are 10 dispensaries.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
17.       The only electricity supply in the project area is a small unit
specific to Lafia town which operates during parts of the day. A rural
electrification program is included in the Third Five-Year Development
Plan.
B. Agriculture
18.       Farming Systems.  The project lies within the Nigerian Middle
Belt, a transitional zone between the northern grain crop and southern root
crop economies with production concentrated almost entirely on annual crops.
Farming systems are conditioned by generally low population densities, and
soils of moderate fertility that are liable to rapid exhaustion; however,
a long growing season permits double cropping of short duration varieties.
19.       The dominant system is bush/fallow cultivation in which land is
cropped for 4 to 6 years and then rested 5 to 10 years, the cultivation rights
being retained by the cultivator throughout the cycle. In some areas, often
those of poorer soils, true shifting cultivation is practiced whereby all
cultivation rights are relinquished by the cultivator on completion of the
cropping period. Some continuous cultivation is practiced in the densely
cropped lands of large villages, but this is mainly restricted to compound
plots, where fertility is supplemented by household wastes and stock manure,
and to the hydromorphic soils of flood plain fringes and valley bottoms.
20.       Crop Production.  Yam is the dominant crop both as a staple food
and as a high-earning cash crop, and there is an extensive and well developed
itexport" trade. The importance of yams as a source of cash income is such
that they are grown whenever sufficient fertility is offered by the soil and
are generally the first crop in the bush/fallow rotation. Millet and sorghum
are the most common second year crops with an additional yam crop planted
in the more fertile soils during the third cropping year. Cassava is planted
at the end of the rotation when soil fertility has been depleted to the
extent that little else will grow and weeds are allowed to encroach into
the crop which is harvested as and when needs require.
21.       While yams, millet, sorghum and cassava are dominant in the area,
other principal crops include maize, cowpeas, benniseed, bambara nuts, cotton,
and rice, which is confined to the flood plain fringes and valley bottoms.
Crops consumed in the villages include a wide range of vegetables and tobacco.
Intercropping is commonly practiced and farmers exploit the long growing
season to achieve to harvests through a system of relay cropping and under-
sowing of short duration crops. Climate conditions for the first harvest
(July/August) are generally adverse, and high storage losses are experienced.
22.       Some variations in farming practices are displayed by different
ethnic groups. Cropping systems are largely uniform throughout the area,
though root crops form the staple food of southern-oriented ethnic groups
while grain is favored by those oriented to the north. Standards of
cultivation are generally good and Tiv cultivators display considerable



ANNEX 1
Page 6
expertise in yam production, both in mound formation and in spatial layout
during field preparation. Women and children of most ethnic groups assist
in field cultivation though there is considerable specialization of activity
with men generally undertaking the heavier tasks.
23.       A few small surveys have been undertaken previously, but all lack
sufficient scale or detailed breakdown of the farming system to permit any
form of quantifiable assessment of the crop production complex. Considerable
primary data collection was undertaken by the preparation mission and an
analysis of 1973 aerial photographs of the area indicated an average farm
size of 2.5 hectares. Based on data collected by the Land Resources Division
(see para 7) land use is detailed in Map 12333 attached to this annex.
24.       With a relative abundance of land, farm size is primarily dictated
by the available labor force. Cultivation is undertaken almost entirely by
hand, and with only limited hired labor available, there is a strong relation-
ship between farm size and the family labor force. Cropping patterns adopted
at any one time are, therefore, a complex strategy to ensure family subsistence
requirements while making seasonal utilization of family labor profitable. It
is a fine equilibrium in a dynamic environment, and with changing prices and
technical innovations a modification of the system is inevitable.
25.       Few institutional services support the agricultural sector; the
present extension service is small (see Table 4) and only limited fertilizer
supplies are available. Despite these limitations, a vibrant agricultural
economy with a strong commercial outlook is maintained and farmers have
eagerly purchased the limited supplies of privately traded insecticides and
fertilizer, the latter at prices far in excess of the present subsidized
levels. With a correspondingly strong demand for consumer goods by the
agricultural community there is every indication that any new technology
offered by the project would be well received and rapidly adopted.
26.       Livestock Production. 1/  There is no integration of crop and
livestock farming; cattle ownership is almost entirely in the hands of the
Fulani pastoralists, and small stock of the agriculturists survive as
scavengers around the homestead and adjacent lands. Some Dwarf Maturu
cattle are owned by the Tiv cultivators and likewise survive as scavengers,
and the few White Fulani belonging to the agriculturists are tended by
Fulani pastoralists along with their own herds.
27.       The area lies entirely within the documented limit of Glossina
distribution; traditionally, the cattle population has consisted almost
entirely of migratory herds entering the area during the dry season following
the retreat of the tsetse fly, to graze the natural rangelands and flood
plain grasses of the Benue Valley. During the last decade, there has been
a marked decline in incidence of trypanosomiasis and there are a number of
permanent herds that move freely within the locality in search of natural
grassland and water, with the majority spending the driest months close to
the Dep and Benue rivers.
i/   For more details see Supplement 4.



ANNEX I
Page 7
28.       There are no reliable statistics on cattle numbers, but the
resident cattle population is estimated at 60,000 head. Migratory Fulani
herds are estimated at about 60,000 head, but a proportion is en route to
the Benue, Dep, and Mada river flood plains outside the division. Live-
stock numbers are estimated at 37,000 goats, 36,000 sheep and 12,000 pigs.
Together with numerous poultry, cattle numbers show a substantial increase
over recent years, while the official figures for sheep and goat population
show a significant decline over the period 1970-73, reflecting that small
stock is a growing source of meat supply in a situation of rising population,
incomes and beef prices. The pig population, however, remained static.
Distribution of sheep and goats is very uneven, about 75% in Obi district,
and the next higher concentration in Lafia and Assaikio districts.
29.       A major livestock trade route passes through the area from the
northeast crossing the Dep at Wuse, then to Azara-Ribi-Adudu-Keana
and out south to Makurdi. This route carries about 2,800 head/month in
the dry season and 1,800 head/month in the wet season. Another lesser
trade route goes via Shendam to Assaikio then on to Lafia and west Nasakawa.
This route is expected to become dominant if the Dep river bridge is completed
but the bulk of the cattle would then swing from Assaikio to Obi through Keana
to Makurdi. A third and minor route moves north-south through Lafia, Agyarako
and Kodacko to Makurdi.
30.       Crude slaughter slabs are maintained at every village though meat
inspection can be carried out only at major centers (mainly Lafia). Strong
butcher cartels exist particularly in Lafia. Butchers buy from Fulani through
a network of buyers employed throughout the area and have a facility at Lafia
to hold and "fatten," thus regulating the supply of meat on the market.
31.       Fishing is an important industry along the Benue river and its main
tributaries. Little information is available on size and composition of
catches or on the number of full and part-time fishermen. The latter, however,
are most common and many migrate to the Benue during the dry season both from
within and outside of the State. A feature of the fishing is the use of swamp
and flood areas which become inundated during the wet season to form perennial
pools or shallow swamps with dense plankton populations on which the fish
thrive. Fishermen use a wide variety of fishing gear and techniques vary with
the changing season. Much of the catch is sold as dried fish for which there
is a strong demand in markets within and outside the area.
32.       Land Tenure.  Land is a communal asset and is allocated to community
members according to customary usufruct. The right to cultivate usually
carries the right to harvest any economic trees, though the felling of certain
species protected under forestry legislation requires Local Government Council
(LGC) permission and payment of a scheduled fee. Responsibility for allocation
of land rights lies with LGC and is administered at the local level by village
chiefs and headmen. Occupancy disputes that are unsettled at this level can
be referred to higher echelons in LGC, who also extend rights to immigrant
cultivators if sufficient land is available. Since 1970 the area has witnessed
a rapid increase in immigrant cultivators and with their significant contribu-
tions to tax revenues they are usually welcomed. Although there is no officially
recognized usufruct, many immigrants have been resident for a considerable time
and their continued right presently appears unchallenged.



ANNEX I
Page 8
33.       Land right inheritance is primogenitary but carries with it
responsibility for the welfare of other family members who may remain
and work on the farm or seek additional community land elsewhere. Land
rights cannot be transferred by sale, but leasing and lending are occasionally
practiced, while negation of the right will occur following prolonged absence.
This does not normally apply in the case of bush/fallowed land though this did
occur in parts of Doma District. Customary land law is accepted and under-
stood and largely free of problems when land is abundant. A revision of the
land tenure procedure is neither necessary at this stage of the area's devel-
opment nor possible in the absence of specific Government policy. Certain
aspects, however, require clarification, such as ownership rights for farmer-
planted tree species that are presently scheduled as protected trees with
felling revenues paid to the LGA. The project would also need to closely
monitor land settlement developments closely and assist Government in long-
term policy formulation.
C. Institutions
34.       Some of the major institutions present in the project area are
described below, along with their respective responsibilities.
35.       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR).  MANR is
responsible for State agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry devel-
opment and its authority is directed through a Commissioner and Permanent
Secretary to technical divisions--agriculture, irrigation, 1/ veterinary,
fisheries and forestry--and support divisions--mechanical, planning, adminis-
tration and accounts. The technical divisions which report directly to the
Permanent Secretary are all represented at the Lafia MANR divisional head-
quarters. MANR would have responsibility for project implementation and
existing technical staff in the area involved in the development activities to
be expanded by the project would transfer to direct project administration,
except for irrigation staff and forestry staff engaged in the Doma forest
reserve.
36.       Ministry of Works (MOW).  MOW is responsible for undertaking all
State-financed public works programs. Maintenance operations within the
project area are undertaken by a divisional branch of MOW.
37.       Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives.  This Ministry
administers the Small Industries Credit Scheme which also provides finance
for agriucltural and agro-industrial ventures in the area. The scheme is
expected to remain a continuing source of funds for such activities. The
1/   Recently the irrigation function of MANR was brought under the responsi-
bility of a separate autonomous institution: the River Basin Develop-
ment Authority (RBDA). RBDA will be responsible for all irrigation
schemes in the State. Since it has only recently been established,
its performance cannot be judged, nor is it possible to predict how
the necessary cooperation between MANR and RBDA will develop.



ANNEX I
Page 9
Registrar of Cooperatives is responsible for supervising the cooperative
movement in the State. Performance of cooperatives has so far been dis-
appointing, but Government is keen to revive the cooperative movement
although this is likely to have a lasting effect only if cohesive group
development is established at a very simple level. The project would
stimulate group development.
38.       Lafia Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union (LCCMU).  Thirty
primary cooperatives are affiliated with LCCMU. As of August 1973, LCCMU
had accumulated N 40,000 in debts and activities were suspended.
39.       Local Government Council (LGC).  The area is administered by two
LGCs whose authority is derived from the State Government through the Ministry
for Local Government. LGC is organized into functional departments, includ-
ing agriculture, livestock, forestry, roads, health, and education, and
its activities interface with, and occasionally overlap, those of Government
divisions and field officers. LGC is supported by subordinate councils
at district, town, and village levels, and is responsible for tax collection,
administration of land allocation, well and feeder road construction and
maintenance, building and staffing of dispensaries and clinics, and general
augmentation of Government activities in the area. Coordination between
Government field officers and LGC is effected by the Resident, who is the
senior Government representative in the area and is also responsible for
security.
D. State Development Plans
40.       The Third Five-Year Develoment Plan (1975-1980) is ambitious and
far-reaching, though full implementation is uncertain. State planners,
however, are confident that all their proposals will be executed on schedule.
With the exception of large-scale irrigation schemes, the general agriculture
proposals for the area and certain allied services contained in the Develop-
ment Plan would be superseded by those contained within this report. The
financial estimates for the range of superseded activities would form the
basis of State Government's contribution to project development costs.
41.       Development proposals not embraced by the project, but of direct
relevance to its actions, are as follows:
(a) The Mada River Project, for which a feasibility study by
Kenting Earth Sciences Ltd. has been completed. The proposed
scheme forms the western boundary of the project area.
Proposals include hydroelectric power and flood control,
irrigated agriculture confined to the flood plains and
associated infrastructural developments. Although project
implementation is expected to commence during the develop-
ment period, detailed engineering has yet to commence.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
(b) The Dep River Project. A contract for a prefeasibility
study was awarded in September 1976 and the report is
expected within a year. A small pilot irrigation project
near Assaikio is currently operated by MANR. Identification
proposals include high-level canal irrigation of upland
areas within the Dep Basin, which forms the eastern boundary
of the project area, and a dam north of the Assaikio-Shendam
road. The identified dam site would create a reservoir which
would inundate densely cultivated areas having good soils.
The prefeasibility study might substantially change the identi-
fication proposals 1/ and it will take some time 2/ before
any implementation will commence. The Dep River Project might
affect development proposals for grazing reserves which have
been kept as simple as possible; close liaison would be maintained
between the project and the State Government concerning Dep irri-
gation developments.
(c) Exploratory geological surveys undertaken in the vicinity of
Obi indicate substantial reserves of coal (coke) which are to
be exploited in conjunction with the proposed Nigerian Steel
Corporation's Works at Ajaokuta in Kwara State. Detailed pro-
posals are yet to be assembled, but the coal mining complex
is expected to employ 1,000 people and would constitute an
important market outlet for surplus farm production generated
by the project. Tentative indications are that mining would
be underground.
(d) The Federal Government plans to improve the Lafia-Doma-Rutu
road as part of the east-west highway from Shendam through
Lafia to Nassarawa. State Government improvements are also
included for most State roads. Work on the Lafia-Shendam
road, including bridge construction on the Dep river, has
already started.
(e) Other service improvements include: rural electrification
(diesel generated); reticulated water supplies for Obi, Keana,
Awe, Doma, Assaikio; an extension of Lafia town water supply;
expansion of Lafia general hospital and construction of a
divisional and associated rural health centers; expanded
secondary and primary education; connection of Lafia with
the electrical power grid operated by the Nigerian Electrical
Power Authority; and housing development integrated to a
master development plan for Lafia town.
(f) The following agricultural and allied developments are also
proposed: a pulpwood plantation within the Doma Forest Reserve;
a slaughter house, meat market, and hide and skin drying facilii-
ties; and a starch and glucose industry in Lafia town.
1/   The same happened in the case of the Mada river studies.
2/   An estimated three to five years.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Rainfall Data (mm)
10-day                LAFIA                  LOKOJA                 MAKURDI                   IBI
periods         Rainfal  Cumulative    Rainfall  Cumulative    Rainfall  Cumulative    Rainfall  Cumulative
Jan               1-10            -.25         .25         .25        . 25        2.28       2.28          -          -
11-20              .0        .25         1.78       2.03        2.28       4.56          -          -
20-31             1.52      1.78         2.29       4.32        1.52       6.10         1.02       1.01
Feb               1-10              1.02      2.79         4.83      9.15          -         6.i0         1.02       2.03
11-20             2.29      5.08         2.29      11.44          -        6.10          -         2.03
21-28             2.29      7.37         5.08      16.52         5.33     11.43         L.Ol       3.05
March             1-10              4.57     11.94         7.11      23.63        3.05      14.48         5.33       8.38
11-20             9.14     21.08        11.43      35.06        22.09     36.58        12.45      20.83
21-31            13.21    34.29         24.13      59.19       15.24      51.82        12.19      33.02
April             1-10             22.61    56.90         32.51     91.70        19.81      71.63        13.97      46.99
11-20            21.59    78.50         29.46    121.16        37.08     108.71        46.74      93.73
21-30            32.00   110.50         37.85     159.01        37.34    146.05        32.00    125.73
May               1-10             42.93    153.42        45.72     204.73       58.93     204.98        50.55     176.28
11-20            54.86    208.28        48.01     252.74        70.36    275.34        50.55     226.82
21-31            57.91   266.19         58.93     311.67        62.74    338-07        46.48     273.30
June              1-10             63.00    329.18        59.94    371.61        55.12     393.19        73.41     346.71
11-20            53.85    383.03        55.88     427.49        86.61    479.81        58.67     405.38
20-30            46.23    429.26        47.75     475.24        54.36    534.16        54.86     460.25
July              1-10             56.39    485.65        53.85     529.09       36.32     570.48        39.37     499.62
11-20            59.914   545.59        5914W     588.52        51.05    621.54        38.86     538.48
21-31            90.17    635.76        60.71     649.22        69.59    691.13        54.10     592.58
Aug               1-10             71.12    706.88        39.62     688.85       44.20     735.33        43.43     636.02
11-20            68.07    774.95        60.96    749.81         36.58    771.91        37.08     673.10
21-31           103.63    878.59        67.82     817.63       110.23     882.14       56.64     729.74
Sept              1-10             87.63    966.22        69.09    886.71        88.65     970.79        82.30     812.04
11-20            86.36  1,052.58        74.17     960.88        96.01   1, o66.80      81.03     893.06
21-30            76.96  1,129.54        72.64   1,033.53        89.92   1,156.72       74.17      967.23
Oct               1-10             67.06  1,196.60        59.44   1,092.96        62.23   1,218.95       68.58   1,035.81
11-20            46.74  1,243.33        48.51   1,141.48        57.91   1,276.86        46.48   1,082.29
21-31            30.48  1,273.81        26.67   1,168.15        27.18   1,304.04        34.04   1,116.33
Nov               1-10              6.1  1,279.91          7.87   1,176.02         8.12   1,312.16        4.83   1,121.16
11-20             1.52  1,281.43         2.03   1,178.05         3.81   1,315.97         3.56   1,124.71
21-30              -   1,281.43          0.76   1,178.81          -    1,315.97           -    1,124.71
Dec               1-10               -   1,281.43          1.02   1,1(9.83         0.51   1,316.48        0.76   1,125.47(
11-20              -   1,281.43          0.76   1,180.59          -    1,316.48           -    1,125.47
21-31             O.76  1,252.19         0.25   1,180.85         0.51   1,316.99         7.11   1,132.59
12
,_ H
SOURCE: An Agroclimatological Atlas for Northern Nigeria.
July 20, 1976



ANNEX 1
NIOIA                                                               Table 2
PtATEAU STATE
LAFA AGRICULXURAL DEVEWSPMT PROJECTS
Sutarv of the Main Cheracteristics of the'Soil MaD Units
Vs                 D    an n           nas                nage o  nagron 
mu Unit       GeoloRY         Relief               Sloee           Pattern           Te.tore            Ontero           P-n            Seil T  e
525      Cretaceone        12-15 a             2. 30           Dendritic          Pine to                                 a Pew snail   Moderately deep well
sandatone.                                                              wedio                                heet. or      drained coarse over
with  h.lbe                                                                                                 eas            wediun structure
537                            N  ot        A   v             i a  b    e
540      B&asnent            _                  _                 _                                  Variable            _           Shallow stony
eneuplen                                                                                                                   a l   Boils
556      Nkpoco group         46 w             1-15 0          Dendriti.          Mediun             Few aitel       Many large    Moderat.ly deep over
.endetonet                                                                                                  sheets         sandetone end iron
567      Sandstones           24 w             2-3            Dentrictic         Mediun to          Commcn          sheent and    coarse over rediu
Coarse            Snal1            .es..
568      Sbhle             12-15w                  10          Dendritic          Medin to                                          loop wel drfined
..aree                                             -  dimn ove  fine
569      Sandstone         30-46 D              -25            Dendritic         Median to          Few esll        Many large    Deep well drained
and  hale                                                               fhine                               shee           cnneretionary
570      l,ndetone        46-61 w              0-400            Dendritic         Co.ree to          No Data         No data         N date
to abhent         fine
571      Sandstone            23 -                 20           lendeitin         Median                                a    larg    ep wel  drained
and  hai                                                                                                     heert          aco   vrfn
te,ture
Cretaceown                                                              Media  to                                          Deep tell to in-
572                            15ie           -.5               etrt                                                                  retly d-ai-d~
-  bariale texture
over fi-e texture- _
573      Shl                  10                   0           Prlll              Mda  to               .                           Dee .well drained
ffine                  _oero  over fine
teatore
575      Cr  2taona        23-30 n                - 20         Dendritic          Medion             Pew   all       Pew nail        Dcep wel drained
send ton-s                                                                                                 ehete           coereo    ooe
576      Cretah c.o.       12-15 a             1- 2             endritic         Pine                               Pew nae l         Deep inparfoetly
577      Ba..lt            15-18 .             1- 2           Dendritie          Coar. .            Common          Co-nn          leop well drained
1~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2-                                                                     B-l1    -dium    fine textured
578      Shalan     with      IS                  20           Dendritie          Fine               ow nail         sew .nI        Moderately deep well
579      Crtandtewe           21 m               10            Dendritic          Coarse                             Pew onall      Deep well dra-oed
__   sheets    nediu- textured
5b0      Cretaceoua           30 a                 2           londritie         Median to          Pew nzail       Few anall      Moderately deep
fine                              sheete          well drained concre-
t ionats
581      Cretanodtos          18 w                 2           Dendritie         Median                _            Pew sna11      Deep well to inper-
_heete         fectly drained
Boomxent                                                                                                                 concretionarv
584      cooplen           15-21 n                 20          Deodritic          Pine to           Few -enall       Pew enall      Deep well drained
^ ch is t                                             re~~~~~~~~~di..txtr
555  lJnconsoliated   9-15 m   l-2        Dendriti          endeiuno           Fwspl                          seoura  aver fine
ahent com-                                                                                                                  -l-texture
565   coeonnoIda       2-1                     D0 Sedritic                   Pine to            Pew  -all                       eP well deemed
d.p..i                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~idin                                   wedi.. -ver fine
586      PIn  granite         30 0             0-25           Variable           Pioe              Many large          -           Shallow  stony oile
and granite                                                                                        g                           1        t.    .l
Naseewent
567      e    egr oit      15-18 n                30           Dendritie          Meia              Conmon swell   Very few         Deep well drained
grait-                                                                  fine                                  1            ..lleorse ove  fine
Vials.~~~~~  texture
599      River               3-15 w                ]5                                                                               Deep poorly drDp l a
59  gver          30llvial coil, with
600                           N    e t   Av        i     a  b   1e
nurce    .SOD.A. Land Re ..r.-e Division
Dato:  J-ly 22, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 3
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population Estimates 1/ and Area Under Cultivation
A.  Population                       1963 (census)    1973 (2.6%)        1980 (4%)
289,659           374,419          492,709
B.  Rural Population                 260,693 (90%)                       394,167 (80%)
C. Rural Farm Families
(size 6-7-6.5)                  40,106                              60,000
D. Area Under Cultivation
(2.5 ha)                       100,265                             150,000
E. Density
Total Area 9,400 km2                  31                                 52
1/  1973 population census results are not available and the latest population
data are from 1963. In the absence of any other reliable data, the 1973
figure has been arrived at by using Nigeria's standard 2.6% growthrate; the
4% growthrate thereafter reflects the noticeable influx of people in the area.



NI-GERIA
LAFIA AGRCULTDRAL DgVtLOP1ENT PROJECT
Estimated                                                         DiviEit e
ESCtima ted                                                                                                    Rs titated
Number       Salarlea                                                                                                        salaries
l                                                                                            Number           w
Agricult rVl Division (Staff Strength 42)                                                                     Admlnistration Section (Staff Strength 5)
Higher Aricultural Superinteandent                         2            3, 0D                                 Clerical Officer                                            1             1.300
Agricultural Superintendent                                2            5,800                                lfrWiet                                                      1               900
Agricultural Assistant                                     7           1l3900                                 Laborer                                                     2             1,600
Agricultural Instructor                                   17          22,100                                  Guard                                                       I               0oo
Nureery Denmnstrator                                       1            1,700
Home Economist                                             6            7,800                                 1tSehnical Staff  (Staff Strergth 22)
Typist                                                     1              900
Agricultural Inatroctors (in training)                     7            9.100                                 Mtchanical Superintendent                                   I             2,900
lechanic                                                    3            8,700
a adiition there is a fCrtilierI  stoT, seed                                                                  'ractor Operator                                            7            7.000
wwrsery store, "nall nursery office, an office                                                               'Welder                                                      I            1,30O
btock with three rooms, one 2androver, one volks-                                                             Electrician                                                 1            1,300
wagon bus, anod 11 tractors of WhiCb 6 are                                                                    Drivers                                                     5             4,500
functioniag.                                                                                                  Workshop Attendant                                          I             1,700
Guard                                                       3            2 ,400
Produce Inspection Division (Staff Strength 15)
In Addition there ia an office, a store, a radio wire
Asietatot Producer Superintendent                          2            2,200                                 set, a waldinSg plant and a Bedford tru0c.
Produce Inspector                                          7          21.900
Produce Bxiaers                                            7            9,100                                 Tle mechanical  staff esploys 17 staff nAbers on irri-
Mssene                                                     3            2,400                                 sation Project but they will remain with these pTojects
which will rot be incorporated in the project.
in addition. there is ore office block with three
ronm* and one store.                                                                                         itrrigtion Section  (Staff Strength 28)
Veterie ary Division  (staff streugth 21)                                                                     Staff in and on irrigation projects w1il not be
incorporated in the proJects.
Higher Livestock Supenioteodeat                            1            3,700
Livestock Assist4at                                        3            5100                                  labhria DiViSbio
Livestock Assistant (in trainiOg)                          2            3,400
Creing control Assistant                                   2            3,400                                 No staff employed at Lafia.
Poultry Extension Assistant                                5            8,500
Insoculatot                                                z            2,600                                 Forestry Division  (Staff Strength S.h.)
Clerical Officer                                           1            1,30O
Driver                                                     1              900                                 Staff employed at  Dona forest restrve, the operation
Laborer                                                    2            1,600                                 of which will not be itcorporated tn the project.
Guards                                                     2            1,600
in addition there are two office biocls each witht
3 rooms, clinic and store, two drying sheds for hides
rus sins, one e tore for hides and skcs, tw  poultry                                                                                                                      TOTAL  V  155,1
rcooDs  one Bedford Truck. 



NIGERIA
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Rainfall
120   -      -       -1 0 DAY TOTALS
MAKURDI
1 OC     _______ _i___                                                                          |
LAFI
260                 -
Jan.    Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    May   June    Jul.   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
MONTHS
World Bank-16364






1T---~~~~~~~   -         CA
9 '    '     S-h 91- ' - 
.--'---,  rC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S             IBRO 12332~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R     
N  NE R   A
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
Mflfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -9 ~~~~~~~~~~~ ,  A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~5735
IP  ft                                         /r  9 >.:X. ;4M9X:,R^i.<, ,N,,3,2,568 l - %6  586
587
569~~~  5          '78~
570
60C                         N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oIGE'RIA
w   \   a   LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT              o  T>S         l
N       \     \                     ~~~~~~~~~~SOIL CLASSIFICATION                        ,,PIl4 






IBRD 12333
707   ,  N      I    G0~   'R
LA                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~AMBA
'~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~~FOR                                                                           RESERVE                                                                                               e~yC.,od
Mdi- "   Cit -oted
'".77                                                                                                                                                              .                                 .CAMt ( N  Li.ghtly  CUlt v-ted
E72g74' ,-1Q2elrt {uhtZ> -  .., C  PNA *                                                                                                                                                                               __No Cairivotion
*  76t\  E~~~0T0.,0.~~~70E,~~70,. ~PANDAM
___________________. . _____. | WILDLIFE  PARK                                                       soae 0E OD      , 0E777LE53U79107 -Ob CENTRAL 7.1000 A 7001007
W. t1W  5  MIK ,,@t? ./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,ij/,2M] ,                                                        I ~~~.   .. .. ..
V~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                                  KEAN    ...1-    
~~,,,.     - ... .,  ,...,,,,,- ,, .  .:-:-
I C _ o" - CCS 1 SS ri i C 1 11D; g -1 -e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ - -- J~
i 3 H \: 4 S .- - \ \~~~NI ERI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAwlLr     1 --] 
X~~~~~~~~~AI    AGRIClTUAL DEEOPMENT PROJECTX219  
C  XISXJ ....... Xx .. tLAND                                                                                             USE






ANNEX 2
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Crop and Farm Development
A. Crop Development
1.        A detailed technical appraisal of production opportunities in the
project area is contained in Supplement 2, along with suporting economic
analyses and production estimates; a summary of the supplement's contents
is outlined below.
2.        Cropping Systems.  A wide range of crops is grown in the area
covering full season crops, which exploit most or all of the long growing
season of over 200 days, and short duration crops, for which rainfed double
cropping is possible. The principal crops are usually grown sole or as
single dominant crops with plots of scattered admixtures that exert insigni-
ficant competing effects on principal crop yields.
3.        Little technical improvement has been introduced into the area
and substantial scope exists for its development. Suitable technical packages
have been assembled using research results from IAR and IITA, and from observa-
tion and field trials within the area. Although the project would actively
pursue development of all crops in the area for which suitable technical
opportunities exist, quantified analysis has been restricted to yams, cassava,
rice, maize, millet, melon, sorghum, cowpeas and benniseed. Estimates of
areas presently planted to these crops are in Table 1, and a summary of the
technical packages proposed is contained in Table 2.
4.        Crop Budgets.  Summaries of crop budgets under existing and proposed
technology are contained in Table 2. Economic and financial translations of
the physical budgets have been made using the commodity price forecasts sum-
marized in Annex 11. Economic budgets have been calculated using the economic
farmgate price forecasts and include a shadow price for labor of N 1.00 per
manday. Financial budgets have been calculated both at full costs 1/ and
actual farmgate prices, and are expressed in returns per hectare excluding
labor, and in returns per manday. An average farm budget has also been
calculated. This is based on a hypothetical farm of 2.5 ha (average farm
size) using the cropping patterns given in Table 1 and the adoption rates
given in Table 3. The average farm budget presented in Table 4 reveals an
average preproject farm income of N 415 and postproject farm income of N 698;
the increment would thus be N 283 (68% increase).
1/   Without taking into account price distortions and subsidies.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Labor Requirements.  Labor availability is an important constraint
on holding size and the impact of increased labor requirements under improved
technology must be taken into account. Annual labor requirements included
in the individual crop budgets have been expressed on a monthly profile
in Table 5 and include all operations necessary to convert the planted
crop into the marketable form used as the basis of the farmgate price pro-
jections in Annex 11.
6.        Production Development.  New technology adoption rates have been
estimated, and areas developed are presented in Table 3. The effect of
continuing labor constraints has been taken into account in making these
projections, and a decline in early season crop plantings is expected so
that peak requirements in the existing farm labor profile will not be
increased.
7.        Graphical presentation of farm labor profiles under existing and
improved technology is given in Chart 16327 attached to this annex; these
have been calculated for a hypothetical 2.5 ha farm using the cropping
patterns given in Table 1 and the adoption rates included in Table 3. The
graphs show that with small reductions in early season crop plantings, the
increased labor demands of new technology improve labor distribution through-
out the profile rather than raise peak requirements.
8.        Estimates of economic production benefits resulting from the project
are included in Table 3 and have been calculated from the economic farm budgets
of Table 2. Physical production estimates net of storage losses and seed
requirements are given in Table 6.
B. Farm Development
9.        Agricultural Services.  Lack of reliable and adequate agricultural
services is the main constraint on production at present. Technical dissemina-
tion services are inadequate, and in any case have little relevance if the basic
ingredients of technology cannot be purchased.
10.       The project would, therefore, create a number of multifunctional
Farmers Service Centers (FSC) from which basic project field services would be
available; suggested FSC locations are shown on Map IBRD 12330 attached to
this report. A total of 20 centers would be developed, each serving an area
of approximately 15 km radius; this density allows a reasonable balance to be
maintained between ease of access by farmers and economies of scale for com-
mercial services. Proposals for developing a sound and commercially-based
trading network in the area are discussed separately in Annex 8.
11.       General Extension.  Responsibility for crop production would rest
with a Crop Development Division which would provide extension field staff
at the ratio of 1 to 500 farm families. On this basis, the following extension
staff (see also Table 7) would be required:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Title                            Grade        Number
Senior Agricultural Officer                 SAO             1
Agricultural Officer                        AO              1
Agricultural Supervisor                     AS              4
Assistant Agricultural Supervisor            AAS           20
Agricultural Assistant                       AA            40
Agricultural Instructor                     AI             80
Extension staff would provide the main communication link between project
management and farmers. They would be responsible for advising farmers on
technical and economic aspects of crop production; speedily disseminating
market intelligence information; providing a continual feedback of information
to project management; and providing follow-up in field supervision of farmers
involved in the projects training program. Requirements for staff and farmer
training are dealt with separately in Annex 7. In addition to the extension
service, the Crop Development Division would also have a research unit and
a seed multiplication unit; details on these units are in Annex 7.
12.       Group Formation.  Providing services to small farmers is frequently
hampered by diseconomies of scale and some form of rural grouping is, therefore,
essential if commercially-based services are to become viable and if projects
are to be replicated without making heavy demands on public funds. Every
opportunity would be taken to provide incentives to farmers to group and bulk
their crop input requirements, and training and extension would largely be
directed towards group representatives in order to promote technical dissemina-
tion among farmers.
13.       Advanced Management.  In order to promote advanced farm development,
the project would include a separate and specialist Farm Management Division. 1/
The Division would specifically attend to large farmers and progressive small-
holder management groups who display sufficient technical and business acumen
to advance beyond the level of basic crop husbandry and yield improvements
described in Section A of this annex. Advanced farm development has been
shown to have an important role to play in the three Northern Agricultural
Development Projects, both in spearheading technological development and in
attracting private capital into agriculture.
14.       The Division would be responsible for operating the existing tractor
hire unit (THU); land-use planning and layout of block farming areas; providing
investment, business and advanced production advice and assistance to farmer
groups and large farmers, and for liaison with cooperatives.
15.       Expansion of the THU would be limited to the equivalent of two
tractor units per FSC and attention would be directed towards substantially
improving operating performance with the long-term objective of transfer to
private ownership. Tractor deployment would center on areas most suitable
for large-scale operation, and would be utilized within the framework of
farm system development involving sound land-use planning, soil conservation
and a sound rotation to ensure long-term maintenance of soil fertility. The
1/   For more details see Supplement 3.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
present charges on an acreage basis would be replaced by hourly rates, and
services would be provided against cash payments only.
16.       Credit (see Annex 8, Table 3) would be provided for land clearing
and for limited subsoiling and ripping operations available from surplus
plant capacity in the Engineering Department. Credit for private ownership
of tractors would be sought from the commercial banks; this is proving parti-
cularly successful in the three Northern Agricultural Development Projects.
Farmers wishing to operate their own equipment would be assisted by the
project in preparing the necessary financial data.
17.       The project would also closely monitor work at IAR and IITA on
small equipment and modified and minimum tillage operations, and provide
field demonstrations to farmers as appropriate. The farm labor profiles
shown in Chart 16327 attached to this annex indicate that new technology
could substantially modify the present labor peaks in the growing season.
Such changes will require close monitoring by field staff with supporting
advice on both investments to improve labor productivity and crop marketing
arrangements involving haulage direct from the field.
18.       Development Costs.  Capital and operating costs of the Extension
Service and Farm Management Division are given in Tables 8 and 9.



Annex 2
Table 1
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cropping Patterns
WITHOUT Project                    WITH Project
%          Hectares             %           Hectares
Full Season Crops
Yams                      25            37,500            25            37,500
Cassava                   15            22,500            15            22,500
Rice                       5             7,500             5             7,500
Other 1/                   2.5           3,750             2.5           3,750
Early Season Crops
Early Maize               25            37,500            20            30,000
Early Millet              20            30,000            17.5          26,250
Early Melon                2.5           3,750             2.5           3,750
Other 1                    5             7,500             5             7,500
Late Season Crops
Tall Sorghum             30             45,000            27.5          41,250
Late Maize                 5             7,500             5             7,500
Cowpeas 2/                 2.5           3,750             5             7,500
Benniseed                  7.5          11,250             7.5          11,250
Other 1/                   7.5          11,250             7.5          11,250
Total Cultivated Area 3/                 150,000                         150,000
1/ Other crops include pigeon peas, cocoyams, groundnuts, bambara nuts, cotton
and vegetables.
2/ As a sole crop.
3/ Full season plus late season crops.
All crops specified grown as sole crops or principal crops in crop mixtures.
June 29, 1976



NIGERITd
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AiR CULTURAL DE7ELOPMEhT PROJECT
Soc leisure Reooa Crop Budgets I
ECONOMIC RETlJRNS                                            F I R A    C I A L   R E T u     S
___OUTPU_____  -___                                                                                           00--- ---- FULLY  IFSTED --------------  C-------- ACTUAL FCNATE PRICES ---------
Product       Yield       I.-o        Fe- hIIIerr           7n... cti d           L.abor            PLe     5rr               Nn-i&i.aR         P-rNIlda          IDULU.             a.hl              krflaSz           i rLl
3/      CAN  TSP  MIP      Dres.sig   Storane                                               51                                                                                                     3
Pull    Season-                                               - -- -- - -- -- -1. K   I. Crops- - -- - -- --               i-  .yTn- - -- -- - -- - --i-                   - -- -- - -- N   -    /  -  --d- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - ---a- ---a- -- --2-
Y.Ta         Traditional                   Tubors        6  000      * 500                                                    175                  126.5                     274.5             1.6                -                 274.5              1.6
I=proved                                   13,000       2,500     200        50        17.5                     250                   396                      579.5              2.3               4.1                612               2.4                4.5
C..sav.      Traditional                                 5 000       6 500                                                     90                    20                       95                1.1                -                 95                1.1                -
Impro-ed                                  10,000       6 500                                                     130                   100                      190               1.5               2.4               190                1.5                2.4
Addanced                          .       15,000       10 000      200  100  50                                  150                   128                      211                1.4               1.2              271.5               1.K               4.1
Ric         Truditio-al                   Peddy           800          25                                                    110                     1                      106                1.0                -                157                1.4                 -
laprov-d                                    1 800          45     100   50                .15                   1.5                    69                       208                1.3              2.3               346                2.2                4.2
Ad-accd                                     2 500          70      200   75  50          .25                     175                   118                      269                1.5              2.5               475.5              2.7                4.9
Ear1 Se.so. CRops
Mai-o        Traditiou-i                   GCrio           750          20                                                     65                     2                       65.5              1.0                -                 65.5              1.0                 -
I=proved                                   I 750           20     100   75  25          0.1        2.3           95                     27.5                    116                1.2               1.7              145                1.5                2.7
Rill.e       Tr-ditiesl"                                   450           R                                                     50                   (-6)                      41                 .8                -                 41                p.a                -
Melee        TradItiosal Sede                             350           1                                                     70                    31.5                     93.5              1.3                -                 93.5              1.3                 -
Iproved                                      700            1.5   100                                           110                    77.5                     170.5              1.6               1.9              184                1.7                2.3
Late Season Cropa
Seohue=     Traditional                    Grabi           600           5                                                     55                     1.5                     58.5              I                  -                 58.5              1.1                -
r lpro--d                                  1  R200                100   50             0.03         1.5           80                     7                       88                1.1               1.2              110                1.4                2.1
Malue        Traditional                      "            600          20                                                     55                     1                       54.5              1.0                -                 54.5              1.9                -
I=proved .                                  1 750          25      100   75  25        0.1          2,5           90                    40                      122.5              1.4               1.9              151.5               1.7               2.8
Coc.o.       Tr-ditional                   Beans           250          10                                                     55                  (-11.5)                    40.5               .7                 -                40.5               .7
Ad-aecod   4/                               1 500          25       50   50             0.07        2.5          125                   108.5                    211                 1.7               2.4              226.5              1.8               2.7
BossiHe-d   Traditto-sl                    Troit           230           5                                                     45                   (-5.5)                     35.5               .8                -                57.5              1.3
Itproved                                     601)          1,      lOo   50                                       65                    14.3                     69                1.1               1.7              147.5              2.3                4.5
it  Sre Sippl-esst 2 fsr  crtIlrd boinrs.
2/  leleng proJertnd 1980 prices asprosucd in 1976 rotstani  saipo   Sep Acc X1.
37 Kg oR sets Pot yan, oumbrer of cotrings lot acmooav.
4/ Rudget i-cludeo upr-yitg costs.
51  is-re-eeorl  -r-oron  per i-cresnt c    unday
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AREA DEVELOPED AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
AREA DEVELOPED                                                      ECONOMIC BENEFITS -
Year 0      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year 0      Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
-----------------------------000 ha---------------------------    ---------------------------'000 Naira-------------------------
F..11 gesn.n Crepe
Yams                     Traditional           37.5         33.5        29.5        25.5        21.5         17.5       4,743       4 237       3,731        3,225       2,719        2,213
Improved               -           4.0         8.0         12.0        16.0        20.0         -         1,584        3,168       4,752       6,336        7,920
Cassava                  Traditional           22.5         22.5        22.4        22.2        21.0        15.0         450          450         448          444         420          300
Improved               -           -            .1           .2         1.0         5.0         -           -             10          20         100          500
Advanced               -           -           -             .1          .5         2.5         _      -                 -            13           64         320
Rice                     Traditional            7.5          6.5         5.5         4.5         3.0          1.5           8           7            6           5           3            2
Improved               -           1.0         1.5         2.0         2.5          3.0         -             69         104         138          173         207
Advanced               -           -             .5         1.0         2.0         3.0          -           -            59          118         236         354
Other                                           3.75         3.75        3.75        3.75        3.75        3.75               -                  -           -           -            -
Early Season Crops
Early Maize             Traditional           37.5        36.5         35.0        30.0        25.0        20.0           75          73           70          60          50           40
Improved               -           1.0         2.5         5            7.5        10.0         -             28          69         138          206         275
Early Millet             Traditional           30           30          30          28.75       27.5         26.25       (180)       (180)        (180)       (173)        (165)       (158)
Early Melon              Traditional            3.75         3.5         3.0         2.75        2.5          2.0         118         110           95          87           79          63
Improved               -            .25          .75        1.0         1.25        1.75        -             19          58           78          97         136
Other                                           7.5          7.5         7.5         7.5         7.5          7.5         -           -            -           -            -           -
Late Season Crops
Tall Sorghum             Traditional           45           44          42.5        38.75       34.5         29.25         68           66          64          58           52          44
Improved               -           1.0         2.5         5.0          8.0        12.0         -              7          18           35          56           84
Late Maize               Traditional             7.5         7.0         6.5         6.0         4.5          3.0           8            7           7            6           5            3
Improved               -            .5         1.0          1.5         3.0         4.5         -             20           40          60         120          180
Cowpeas                  Traditional             3.75        3.50        3.25        3.0          3.0         3.0         (43)         (40)        (37)         (35)        (35)         (35)
Advanced               -            .25        0.75         1.5         3.0         4.5          -            27           81         163         326          488
Benniseed                Traditional            11.25       10.75       10.25        9.25         7.75        5.75         (62)        (59)        (56)         (57)        (43)         (32)
Improved               -            .5         1.0          2.0         3.5         5.5          -             7           14          29          50           79
Other                                          11.25        11.25       11.25       11.25       11.25        11.25        -            -           -            -           -            -
Total 1/                                         -           -           -           -            -           -         5,185        6,432        7,769       9,164      10,849       12,983
Increment                                        -           -           -           -            - _                     -          1,247       2,584        3,979       5,664        7,798
1/  Total does not include rounding errors or the economic benefits from "other crops'.'
2/ Area multiplied by economic returns per ha (see Table 2).
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AVERAGE FARN BUDGET 1/
(2.Sha)
L A F I A
WITHOUT PROJECT                                  WITH PROJECT
Area              Net Return 2/                 Area                 Net Return 2/
(ha)                 (N)                        (ha)                    (N)
Full Season Crops
Yams -          Traditional                         .625               171.6                         .292                  80.15
Improved                             -                  -                           .333                 203.80
Cassava -       Traditional                         .375                35.63                        .250                  23.75
Improved                             -                  -                           .083                  15.77
Advanced                             -                  _                           .042                  11.40
Rice -          Traditional                         .125                19.63                        .025                   3.93
Improved                             -                   -                          .050                  17.30
Advanced                             -                   -                           .050                  23.78
Early Season Crops
Maize -         Traditional                         .625                40.94                        .167                  10.94
Improved                             -                  -                            .333                 48.29
Millet -        Traditional                         .500                20.5                         .437                  17.92
Melon -         Traditional                         .063                 5.89                        .033                   3.09
Improved                             -                   -                           .029                   5.34
Late Season Crops
Sorghum -       Traditional                         .750                43.88                        .488                  28.55
Improved                             -                   -                           .200                  22.0
Maize -         Traditional                          .125                6.81                        .050                    2.73
Improved                             -                   -                           .075                  11.4
Cowpeas -       Traditional                         .063                 2.55                        .050                    2.03
Advanced                             -                   -                           .075                  16.99
Benniseed -    Traditional                           .188               10.81                         .096                   5.52
Improved                             _                   _                           .092                  13.57
TOTAL                                                                  358.24                                              568.25       m >|
Increment                                                                                                                  210.01
1/ Calculated by applying the average cropping pattern of each area to
h,ypothetical average farm. Excludes returns from 'Other' crops.
2/ Actual farmgate prices (see Table 2).
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
IAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Annual Crop Labor Requirement
(Mandays per ha)
Jan     Feb      Mar     Apr      May       Jun     Jul      A        Sept     Oct      Nov      Dec             TOTAL
Full Season Crops
Yams     Traditional                              18      -        -        5       10        15      15       17        25       20      25       25               175
Improved                                20       5               15       20        15       15      22        30       34      43       31                250
Cassava  Traditional                             -        -        12      14       14        14       6       10        10      10       -        -                 90
Improved                                _        16      27       22       17       17       11       10       -        10       -       _                 130
Advanced                                -        16      32       24       18        18      12       20        -       10       -        -                150
Rice     Traditional                               5      -        -       -        10        30      15       10        10       10      13       12                110
Improved                                10       -       -        -        20       35       20      15        15       12       18       10               155
Advanced                                15       -       _        -        20       35       20       15        15      19       24       12               175
Early Season Crops
Early Maize   Traditional                         -       -         5      13       12        15      10        8        -         2      -        -                  65
Improved                           -       -         5      16       19        15       18      18        -         4       -       -                  95
Early Millet  Traditional                         -       -         5      14        9         4      14       -          2        2       -       -                  50
Early Melon   Traditional                         -       -        10       2        5         5       5       10        10       23       -       -                  70
Improved                           -       -        10        5      10         5        8      17        15       40       -        -                110
Late Season Crops
Sorghum       Traditional                          3      -        -       -        -         12       7       10         5       -        10       8                 55
Improved                            5      -        -        -       _         15       14      10         5       -        17      14                 80
Late Maize    Traditional                         -       -        -        -       -         -         5      10        15        8       20       -                 55
Improved                           -       -        -        -       -         -         6      13        16       15       40       -                 90
Cawpeas       Traditional                         -       -        -       -        -         -        -       15        10        5       16        9                55
Advanced                           -        -       -        -        -        -        -        25        19      14       -        67               125
Benniseed     Traditional                         -       -        -        -       -         -        -       13        10       -        -        22                45
Improved                           -       -        -        -       -         -        -       17        17       -        -        31                65
I/ See supplement 2 for detailed labor profiles for individual crops.
April 14, 1977



ANNEX 2
Table 6
NIGERIA
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production Estimates
Year 0      Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
Full Season Crops
---------------------------Tons '000-------------------------
Yams
Gross Production                  225          253          281         309          337         365
-Storage Loss                        45          51           56          62           67           73
-Seed retention                      56          60           64          68           72          76
-Net Production                    124          142          161         179         198          216
Cassava
Gross Production                   112.5       112.5        113         114.5        122.5       162.5
-Storage Loss                         -           -            -           -
-Seed retention                       -           -            -
-Net Production                     112.5       112.5        113         114.5        122.5       162.5
Rice
Gross Production                     6           7            8.4         9.7         11.9        14.1
-Storage Loss                         -           -            -           -            -           -
-Seed retention                        .2           .2          .2           .3          .3           .4
-Net Production                       5.8         6.8          8.2         9.4         11.6        13.7
Early Season Crops
Maize
Gross Production                    28.1        29.1         30.6        31.3         31.9        32.5
-Storage Loss                         2.8         2.9          3.1          3.1         3.2          3.3
-Seed retention                        .8           .8          .8           .7          .6           .6
=Net Production                      24.5        25.4         26.7        27.5         28.1         28.6
Millet
Gross Production                    13.5        13.5         13.5        12.9         12.6        11.8
-Storage Loss                          .7           .7          .7           .6          .6           .6
-Seed retention                        .2           .2          .2           .2          .2           .2
-Net Production                      12.6        12.6         12.6        12.1         11.8        11.0
Heloa
Gross Production                     1.31        1.41         1.58        1.66         1.76        1.93
-Storage Loss                          .04          .04         .05          .05         .05          .06
-Seed retention                        .01          .01         .01          .01         .01          .01
=Net Production                       1.26         1.36        1.52         1.60        1.70         1.86
Late Season Crops
Sorghum
Gross Production                    27          27.6         28.5        29.3         30.3        32
-Storage Loss                         1.4         1.4          1.4          1.5         1.5          1.6
-Seed retention                        .2           .2          .2           .2          .2 
-Net Production                      25.4        26           26.9        27.6         28.6        30.2
Sfafze
Gross Production                     4.5         S.1          5.7         6.2          8.0          9.7
-Storage Loss                          .2           .3          .3           .3          .4           .2
-Seed retention                        .1           .2          .2           .2          .2           .2
=Net Production                       4.2          4.6         5.2          5.7         7.4          9.0
Cowpeas
Gross Production                      .9         1.3          1.9          3.0         5.3          7.5
-Storage Loss                       )  .1           .1          .2           .3           .5          .8
-Seed retention                     )               .1          .1           .1          .1            1
-Net Production                        .8          1.1         1.6          2.6         4.7          6.6
Benniseed
Gross Production                     2.6         2.8          3.0          3.3         3.9          4.6
-Storage Loss
-Seed retention                         .1          .1           .1          .1           .1          .1
=Net Production                       2.5          2.7         2.9          3.2         3.8          4.5
April 14, 1977



ANNEX 2
Table 7
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Staff Requirement
Ultimately
Grade   Required   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Senior Agricultural Officer       SAO       1          1        1       1        1       1
Agricultural Officer              AO         1         1        1       1        1       1
Agricultural Supervisor 1/        AS         4         3        4       4        4       4
Assistant Agricultural
Superintendent 2/              AAS       20         15      20       20       20      20
Agricultural Assistant 3/         AA       40         10       20      30       40      40
Agricultural Instructor 3/        AI       80         10       20      40       60      80
l/ 1 per five FSC
2/ 1 for each FSC
3/ Extension staff to farmer ratio is 1:500 of the estimated number of farm families.
Thus 120 AIs& AAs are ultimately required.



NIGERIA                                                                                     ANNEX 2
Table 0
P'LATEAUI STATE
LAPIA ASRICIIITORI  EEOMN   RJCT
Unit                                                                                                                  PrioRosg
Lelt   Cot I      Year 0          Year 1         Year 2          Yea'r 3        Yea  4          Year 5         Total           1         Cas            Toa    ot
A.  Capital
Buildicos so   ...900c0c270e3
leir  oss 21                   No.        30.0        (3)  90.0900                                                                                                37          27060
lotarsdiat   Hose3/                  No.        21.0       (3)  61.0       (2)  42.0                                                                     101.0         257.        26.3                70.7
doctor Mooses 4/                     Re         14.0       (6) 224.0       (1)  70.0                                                                     294.0          21%         716.1             2240.
Tr-dtirie.aI HoZue  5/               No.         4.0       (10)  40.0    (10)  40.        (10)  40.0    (10)  40JQ10.                                                    0           6.04.
Sob-total Heusen                                                417.0           112.0            40.0      .    40.0                                     649.0                    142.0              506.2
Typewriter   6/.S.                               0.5                       (7)   3.5                                                                        3.5         607.         2.1                1.4
Calculator  7N.R.                                0.4                       (85    3.2                                                                       3.2         601          1.0~               1.5
Parlous Office Forniture  /          Sets        1.0                       (3)   1.0        (1)    1.0                                                      4.0        40%           0.6                2.4
Varlou  Office Forotur  9/           sets        0.1                      (11)   7.5        (1)    2.1                                                     10.0        40%           4.0                6.0
Varou  Office Purit-r  10/          Hots        0.0                       (6)   4.0                                                                       4.8         40%           1.9                2.9
E.tensloc. Eqoip-ct 11                .Hts      DQ1                       (20)   2.0      (20)   2.0    (30)   3.02.   (30)  3.0       (20)  2.0           12.0        40%           4.72
So.bctial                                                                        24.0             1.1             3.0          3.0            2.0         17.3                      16.3              21.2
Vehicles
Fo-rWheel  Orion                     So.         6.0        (2)  12.0      (2)  12.0                       (21  12.0    (2) 12.0                          40.0          00%        38.H                 0.6
Pick.ups                             No          4.0                       (4)  16.0                                     (4) 16.0                          12.0         00%         21.6                6.4
Motorcycles  12/                     No.         0.0                      (10)   0.0      (10)   0.0    (10)   0.0   (10)  8.0                            32.0          607.        19.2               12.0
Bicyrlos  12/No                                  0.2-                     (10)   2.0      (10)    2.0    (20)   4.0   (20)  4.0         (20)  4.0         16.0         4 0%          6,L4              9.6
0th-,totl                                                        12.0            10.0            10.0            24.0         40.0            4.0        120.0                     09.6               30.4
Tota! Copicl1 Gusto (A)                                         429.0           214.0            15.1            67.0         43.0            6.0        014.5                    240.7              561.8
icaff Salaries
ChicO  Agton-is-               M-uu.yr          10.0         (.5)16.0      (1)  32.0        (1)  32.0      (0)  32.0   (1) 32.0                          l44.o          715.       Ifs.)               34.0
Officec                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~~7.5  (1)   7.5  (1)   7.1  (1)   7.5   (1)  7.1  (1)  7.1      17.1        -             .                37.5
f.Ofidooia  Ocrecoy                             2.9                       (1)   2.0        (1)   2,9       (1)   2.0   (1))  2.0        (1))  2.9         14.15                                       14.7
S.-to   'Iock                                    i.3                       (1)   1.1        (1)   1.1(3             . (1)   1.3  (1   )1.3                  4.1 .3                6.1
Cl.ck                                            i.i        (1)   1.0      (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0      (2)   2.0   (2)  2.0          (2)  2.0         11.0          -                              11.0
Hooseofor                           ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~0.0  (1)   0.5  (2)   1.6  (2)    1.6  (2)   1.6    (2)  1.6        (2)  1.6           H.H                      .                    .0
0ri-oc                                           5.9        (2)   1.0      (2)   1.0        (2)    1.0     (2)   1.H    (2)  1.8         (2)  1.0         li.H          -                               0l.H
Senior Ao   culturl Offce                cc      6.0                       (i)   6.0        (1)   6.0      (1)   6.0   (1)  6.0          (1)  6.0         10.0                                        30.0
AOiri-lt-rl Officer                              4.9                       (1))   4.9       (1))   4.9     (1))   4.9   (1)  4.9         (17  4.9         24.5                                         24.5
Oltiici .c   . ueci-o  13/      "        3.9        (3)   0.7      (3)    0.7       (4)   11.6     (4)11.6   (4) 11.6            (4) 11.6          63.8                                        63.8
GcPrvicxco-d-ot L14/                            2.2                      (15)  33.0      (20)  44.0    (20)  44.0  (20) 44.0          (20) 44.0         200.0                                       209.0
Sli- cutur  i Assi-tu                            1.7        17)  11.9   (10)  17.0         (20)  34.0   (30)  14.0  (40) 34.0          (40) 34.0         064.0                                       164.9
Aoricoie"a.I isr_t-c                             1.3       (17)  22.1    (10)  13.0       (20)  26.i    (40)  12.0  (60) 70.0           (00)104.0        295.1                                       255.1
secretay                                         l.1.                      (2))   5.4       (2)   1.4      (2)   1.4    (2)  3.4         (2)  1.4         07.0                                        17.0
Cierk                              0      c       .0        I1 .0          (3)    7.0       (4)   4.0      (4)   4.0    (4)  4.0         (4)  4.0         20.0                                         20.0
Metorec0.8                                                                 (5)   4.0        (6)   4.H      (6)   4.0    (6)  4.0         (6)  4.0         23.2                                        23.2
Drin--                                           0.09                      (6)   5.4       (6)   5 4       (6)   5.4    (6) 5.4         (6)  5.4          27.0                                        27.0
.Sobh.tot1                                                       63.7           147.5           193.2          219.2         241.2          239.2      1,107.6                    108.0              990.6
Aiilscatt-                        (75/  8561.7                                   0.6            120.9          140.4         159.9          170.4        722.7         i)%        100.4              614.3
Total Staff Salarie                                               9H.0          214.1           114.1           119.6       405.1           410.6      1.0_)0.3                   216.4            1,613.9
Fou.--h-Il Drive               Vohitle-oar    2.1           (7)   4.7      (4)   0.4       14)   0.4       (4)   0.4   (4)  0.4         (4)  0.4          46.2         457,        20.0               21.4
Pick Ups                                         1.                        (4)   7.2        (4)   7.2      (4)   7.2   (4)  7.2         (4)  7.2          16.0         454.        16.2               19.0
office iopotse  16/               .                                               ..                                                          .-
Tota  Operstig toots                                              4.2.           15.6            15.8            11.6         13.6           13.6        0!2. 2                    71.0               45.2
Total Rinroroo  Costs (H)                                       103.0           249.7           379.7          375.2        420.7           434.2      1,912.5                    253.4           1,659.1
C.  Grad Total (AtE)                                                 110.0          477              105.2          442.2        463.7          402        2Z77.0t.                   502.1            2.2241
I lclcdiv~g seio  .cff. Crop D.-vouP-at Dlis~ i            for reerh and seed ooltipli-lr-o, sea Aon-  7.
2/   e-i-r louse   for Chief Agrut... ci.t  PA0 and SAG).
If  Ict-todiatooue  for A0 aod AS.
4/  Juoier house  f-  -ofiAd-tia1  er-tory sod ASA.
5/  Tr-dici-Ia hoce   for AdAs  (c-  ho regarsd 00 o luep sonlloance to asist los  I-el staff cith 4oooHo.(
of  .ou  for SC  sod 7 iv SQ iotideotial secrtory sod 2 a--t-riesl
1Fourfor seior sta ff iv SQ atd 4 fr  IC.
10! For 4 seiorc  Cf  -b-ar   in 0Q etA 2 odditi-nl to r-flet neds  -opportiol ets f.
11;  oEos-io-  nquipet-  c ied to -oteoi-  staff (Ado  and Alo).
12  Sil  hohoih   by  -i-.oo  -taff tho-e-o; Project ritl Proide lean  is anoed-co  with dolil serice rogoltions  to hoild up revlving food a11on-  eado for
or   -,cocole iritioIly for AAs and or  hicycil  fun AIn..
15/ Ore for eah DC.
14. OvoIfo  eah FSC.
15' 7 5%o  ioo  -aare-
T0; Coated  -oder loop out For adititrati-o  (Anoot 7).
11>  fssaiit  c corestf~fhpre-enly  -nployod is detailed hero  rethar                 than  -eve  vari-  tables, therfore,  -  actual redctio  will ente  as this staff
0-coh-  78, 19/h



-           I ------I        --IbII.l   ----IIIblI-lbl.
lbC0H HOOlb~'bH 'lbH    CHO C    lCO     CHCZO              lbCC lblb" HCHO Llb'lHClbH                                   II    -       H    O b O        CC   ~-rC2~ HH  H                              CHl'lb'l     'lb        CO    HC',C 
COOCloollbollbllblb                  lblb           10    lb    -     b    llbb,-               o-.lb  b lblbllbblbbllbb                   H           0     b    l     l    llbl                             Hlb               lbllbb.l                l     'bIbbl         l
IP - ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      '    l"bllb           'b    H     C           HllbbHbbbblb                                                         l     1          l     bl
lblblblb  lblbHlb~~~           ~~,l R S,             2        ~        -       ~        l                 b       I ~ 0          l"l            bllll        CH                                       l      bb"l.bb0l                       HC                     Cllll
4   lll9          -lgl.bbb                         H     l    oo       orb            '                -      bobb.~.                           b        a     a      2H~~H                                                                                                                      H               
F    Z.  Zl                                                                                                                                         'll           l                            'll'blll                            b     bl'
lblb'l(lb~Hblb  llblb'b    lb              lb          l    lb  lb           -- lb- lb                             --          ---  -           -Hl'b   blllllll - b --l              l -                  -O    - C -OC                                  b     l                  bll'b0
lb0lb  oClb CClb lblb   blb  b    lb     b4>- 0          lb                     l~                                    0-.rc. C--H-b-.l-H-H.-bb-b-C--2-
Li             ll
.010  lb   lb    C                    lb                                    Clb              lb'lbC. .b. .   .'. .  . . . . .  ... .C. 
Hlblblblb  a  H  lb    lblb                                                  lblb~      ~~~~~~ lb    &'
[V                                                         lblb        lb   lb   lblb         lb                                         lb l-lba - - - -  - -lb   lb-l-                                                       l
lb<  lb lblblblblblblblb     lb    0'   lb.. .                                                 l. b . .      lb .      lll.Cl                                                        'l               00
lbolblb  lblb    lblblb.    lblblblblb  -4'. . . . .                                                       b. b             lb. .'.l.l. lbbl                                                                 .    l . .. 
H  lb  lblb' 'j'--lbHlbHH                                                                           Hlb'..  ..  .. ..  ..    lb . bC'., .                                                   lH .l. .l
<lblb.GLlb  C.'lb~~~~~~~~~i   lb  J0~~~~~"    CC          lbH                    Hlblb-lb'lblb                                                   lblb     0    'lbH                                                          lb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
-H   lb    0Hlb'llblb~Hlblb                       .lb..     . bb .b .bllbbH.                                                                                                                                              0 l. 
Cob  lb'   lblb,lbC.  lb                                     'lb               0"   lbolblb,lblb                                                      lblb          lblb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 






NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM LABOR PROFILE
50
40                                 - L
\  /    ~~POST PROJECT 1980 
30                         _           _           _
lit t PRE P ROJECT 1976\ /                 . \
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FEB. MAR  APR. MAY  JUN.  JUL.  AUG. SEPT. OCT.  NOV.  DEC.  JAN.
World Bank-16327






ANNEX 3
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Livestock Development 1/
General
1.        The project area has a livestock population of some 60,000 cattle,
37,000 goats, 36,000 sheep and 12,000 pigs. In addition, there is a migratory
inflow of some 60,000 herd of cattle from the north which filters into the
area with the end of the rains and the departure of the tsetse fly and returns
northward at the onset of the following rainy season. There has been a signi-
ficant increase in resident cattle population over the last decade, and farmers
who formerly confined their activities to cropping have an increased interest
in cattle ownership. Increases in agricultural production and incomes have
resulted in a rising demand for livestock products. The development of a
service abattoir at Keffi in the short term and the national capital near
Abeija in the long term will exacerbate this demand.
2.        Despite a high degree of motivation and competence displayed by
senior local staff, existing extension and disease control efforts are insuf-
ficient due to severe material, manpower and organizational difficulties.
Despite many restrictions on expanding livestock production, the fundamental
physical resources and technology are available. With an expanded applied
extension input, this considerable potential could be exploited.
Cattle
3.        The pressures which have built up over recent years on traditional
northern grazing lands, due principally to improved disease control measures
and increased agricultural activity have, in part, been syphoned to the
Lafia project area which has itself been improved as a cattle area by the
results of tsetse clearance programs. Furthermore, farmers in the project
area who previously confined their activities to cropping are now showing
an active interest in cattle ownership both as an enterprise in itself and
for the benefit to be derived from a mixed farming system.
4.        The quality and productivity of pastures in the Lafia Division
are generally high by northern standards, particularly in areas that have
not been farmed or overgrazed and burned. However, management of grass-
lands is generally confined to the use of fire to burn off old growth and
to promote early flush grazing, and the control of seasonal grazing to
make best use of wet and dry lands. Liveweight gains are consequently poor.
Herd productivity is generally low: calving rates are estimated at 40-50%,
mortality is 10-20% for calves and 4-10% for adults, and growth rate to
slaughter is slow, 4-5 years. Low turnoff rate is, therefore, a corollary
of such low production parameters.
1/   For full details, see Supplement 4, Appendix 1.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Disease control is effected by MANR veterinary personnel through
inoculation programs. Considerable progress has been made in tsetse control
and trypanosomiasis incidence has diminished; rinderpest has been suppressed
by a vaccination program; contagious bovine pleuropneumonia represents a
serious threat but slaughter programs, vaccination and quarantine controls
are effective; streptothricosis is common in the area, but no preventive or
curative control exists at the present; brucellosis exists but its spread
is undefined--control through vaccination is effective; foot and mouth
disease is endemic but inoculation programs are not justified on grounds of
cost; tick-borne diseases appear frequently and dipping control measures are
justified; helminth infection is widespread and can be controlled under good
management by following dosing regimes.
6.        Marketing control is limited to crude slaughter slabs in most
villages; meat inspection is limited to major centers (chiefly Lafia town).
Cattle and meat prices in the project area are considerably lower than around
major cities, even to the north. Price per kilo liveweight is approximately
N 0.5-0.6 but varies somewhat with fleshing, e.g.: (i) four-year old mature
bull in good condition (420 kg) N 220-240 or N 0.52-0.57/kg liveweight; and
(ii) aged cull cow, poor condition (250 kg) N 110-120 or N 0.44-0.48/kg live-
weight.
7.        The project would promote livestock production in the area by
establishing four grazing reserves, improving trade routes, improving small
stock in the area especially poultry, introducing smallholder fattening and
expanding veterinary services.
Grazing Reserves
8.        Effective improvements in range management, protection of grazing
lands from encroachment by cultivators and attainment of improved technical
coefficients in existing herds can best be achieved by the designation and
control of grazing reserves, of which four are proposed within the project.
In the long term, permanent grazing land use is required. In the short term,
significant production improvements can be made by sound innovations and
developments which generally meet the the most pressing needs of the graziers.
Since the grazing potential is imbalanced between wet and dry seasons, migration
out of the reserves (and often out of the Lafia Division) must be allowed in
the dry season.
9.        Four grazing reserves would be established at Keana (29,000 ha),
Assaikio (24,300 ha), Awe (47,000 ha) and Wuse (36,000 ha). Development of
these reserves would be phased over three years but gazetting would be done
as soon as possible. The establishment of these reserves would not only be
geared towards improving livestock technical coefficients through the pro-
vision of improved rangeland management, but would also provide an opportunity
for improving the social services available to graziers and their families.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Trade Routes
10.       The project area lies on one of the major north-south trade routes.
Trade cattle (chiefly bulls) from Bauchi, Bornu, and Gongola States converge
at Wuse and then on via Yelwa, entering there from the northeast, crossing
the Dep river at Wuse, then to Ribi, Adubu, Keana and out south of the area
by Makurdi to the southeastern markets. Some cattle avoid Makurdi by cross-
ing the Benue river at low points to the west. This route carries about
2,800 head/month in the dry season and 1,800 head/month in the wet season.
11.       Another lesser route (about 140/month) branches off this major
route at Yelwa and goes via Shendam to Assaikio, crossing the Dep river,
then on to Lafia and west to Nasarawa, joining main northern routes from
Akwanga and southern Niger State at Keffi and leading onto Umaisha, Lokoya
and the major southwest urban markets. This route is expected to become
dominant once the Dep river bridge is completed and hence avoid the difficult
swim at Wuse. The bulk of the cattle would swing south from Assaikio towards
Obi and Keana through Makurdi. A third and minor route (about 120/month in
dry season) branches off the major route serving Jos Plateau, Bauchi and
Kaduna States at Akwanga and moves south through Lafia, Agyarako and Kodarko
through to Makurdi.
12.       Currently, there are no control posts in the Lafia Division although
one is planned for Lafia within the 1976/77 State budget, which would enable
a record to be kept of cattle originating in Lafia Division. Check points are
also absent although a livestock assistant has recently been stationed at the
river crossing at Wuse to record cattle numbers and check permits. Frequent
encroachment of cultivators onto or proximate to trade routes poses a continual
challenge to the safe and unhindered passage of traders. Under the project,
trade routes would be established through the provision of cleared and fenced
routes, cattle handling facilities at check points and adequate staff and
equipment for thorough disease surveillance, treatment, dipping and recording.
Improving Small Stock
13.       While sheep and goats are in important feature of livestock production
in the area and demand for both goat and sheep meat is high, with prices ranging
from N 2.00 to N 2.50 per kg liveweight, proven improved practices of genetics
or management are lacking and the project does not, therefore, include develop-
ment proposals for sheep or goats, although the Livestock Division would give
the normal support in the course of their veterinary work.
14.       The introduction of exotic poultry for crossing with local birds has
been successfully carried out in the past and the project will continue to
promote this development practice through the provision of improved cockerels
and pullets to be issued to farmers on an exchange basis for local birds.
Implementation of this exercise will be carried out on a 'flushing' basis with
a condition of exchange being that all local cockerels in a village must be
exchanged. The project would operate a poultry rearing unit rearing day-olds
for exchange at five months and having a throughput of 10,000 chicks per year.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Stall Fattening
15.       There is a demand from arable farms in the area to obtain cattle
for fattening on crop residues. The project will meet this demand through
the provision of credit for stock purchase, veterinary expenses and mineral
supplements. Cattle would be stall fed at night and whenever quality grazing
is scarce. Extension service advice would be available to assist in the
establishment of improved stylosanthes pastures. It is estimated that
cattle would be fattened over a period not exceeding ten months.
Livestock Extension
16.       The existing veterinary department services which supply the
extension service for livestock development in the area would be strengthened
and supported under the project.
Costs
17.       Costs are summarized in Table 1.  Detailed cost tables are attached
to Supplement 3, Appendix 1.



ANNEX 3
Table I
NIGERIA
PLaTEAU STATE
LAFL4 AGRICULTURAL DZWPI    PROJECI
Livestock Deelopwnt Costs - Su  ry
(N. '000)
F t nLAcE. ha
Units       jitt    Year 0        Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       year 4       year 5       Total                                Local Costs
a. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Livestock intension Services
BDildings - Housing                                     117.0        87.0          -            _            _            _         204.0                    5 53.1         150.9
Eqoipeeni                                                 7.9          1.3         2.0          ---11.2                                            -7.5                        7.7
Vehipnee                                                 15.0        26.8          8.0          -           15.0         22.0         86.8        -          68.s             18.3
Subtotal                                                139.9       119.1         10.0          _           15.0         22.0       306.0        42         129.1           176.9
7. Poultry nearing Unit
SIlidinga  H-.Hoing                                     22.0           -                        ---                                   22.0        -4.3                       17.7
Other                                                   73.6                                    _                                    73.6                    18.4            515.2
Equipsest                                                 ii                         -          -4                                     1.14       -0.5                         0.9
Vehicles                                                  0.8          -            _           -            -            -            0.8        _           0.5              0.3
Subtotal                                                 97.8         -             _           _            _            -          97.8        24          23.7            74.1
1. Grazing Reserves
Buildings - Housing                                      -          107.0        107.0        214.0          -            -         428.0         -          97.4           330.6
)ther                                                   -            10.0         10.0         20.0                                  4.0          -          10.0            30.0
Stock Handling Facilities                                            51.0         41.5         97.5          _            _         190.0         -          53.0           137.0
Water Fasllities                                         -            31.5        20.5         63.0          -                       115.0         -         69.o             46.o
Equipment                                                _            5.5          5.5         11.0          -            -           22.0         -         i5.4              6.6
Vehicles                                                 -            8.3          8.3         16.6          6.5          6.5        46.2         -          56.6             9.6
Sobtotnl                                                 _          213.3        192.8        422.1          6.5          6.5       841,2        33         281.4           559.8
4. Trnde Routes
Dtl1dings
Hooing - Control Poots                                   _           14.0         28.0          -            -            -          42.0        25          10.S            31.5
-Night  sasps                                 _            16.o         i6.o          _           -            -           32.0        10           3.2            29.8
Subtotal                                                 -           30.0         44.0          -            -            -          74-.                    17.7            60.3
Other Buildings and Develop=nt
- Control Posin                                 _           22.9         45.9                                                68.7         - -3.6                    35.1
- Night Csps                                    _           49.2         49.2          -            _            .           99.4        -          56.2            14.4
Subtotal                                                _            72.1         95.0          -            -            -         167.1         -          99.B            77.5
TCade Roate fcli-sti-o                                   _           12.0         13 5          -           -             -          20.5         -           7.6            17.9
Tini Cnpitnl C-ont                                     237.7        446.5        355.3        422.1         21.5        28.1      1.511.6         -         545.3           966.3
B.  RE  RRENT COSTS
Liostotck Exte-ioon USit
Staff Salaries                                          62.7        125.8        127.4        i27.4        127.4         95.4       r66.i         -         141.6           524.5
Vehicles                                                 1C.1        15.3         1S.9         15.9         is.9         15.9        89.1         -          4o.i            49.0
Genera-  S-rvi-es                                         8.0          8.4         9.7          9.7          8.7          8.7         51.2        -          34.2            17.0
Sobtotal                                                 9O.8       150.0        151.9        151.9        151.9        119.9       80,4        31         215.9           590.5
2.  2coltry Relg Unit
Staff Sairte-s                                           -           12.1         12.1         12.1         12.1         12.1        60.5         -           3.3            56.6
Vehi^les                                                 -            2.6          2.6          2.6          2.6          2.6         13.0        -           3.9              9.1
lateral Seroies                                          -           (25.1)      (25.1)       (25.1)       (25.1)       (25.1)      (125.1)       -         (12.2)         (113.3)
LInt  Sale of Poultry                                    -          (23.8)       (238.)       (23.8)      523.8)        (23.9)     (119.0)        -            _           (119.0)
Net  sern-a  Services                                    -             1.3         1.3          1.3          1.3          1.3          6.5                     -
Sobtootl                                                             i 16.o       16.0         16.o         16.0         ]6.0        80.0        25          20.0            60.0
3. Tinting Rsoerven
Stnff Salariso                                           -           33.6         67.2        134.4        154.4        174.4       504.0         -          52.4           471.6
Vehiole and Equipnent Costa                              -             3.6         7.2         14.4         14.4         14.4         14.o        _          24.5             29.7
General Services -                                                   32.0         40.0         48.0         s6.o        69.4        240.4         _         171.9            73.6
Soltotal                                                 -           69.2        1i4.4        196.98       204.8        219.2        80.4          _        229.5            574.9
4. Trade Rooten
Staff Snlarien                                           -            14.9        55.5         35.5         35.5         35.5 5      15.9          -           -             156.9
General Services                                         -             -           2.6          6.1          6.1          6.1         20.9         -           9.4            11.5
Subtotal                                                              t 54.9      38.1         41.6         41.6         41.6        177.9        _           9.4            i68.4
Total Recurrent Costa                                    90.8        250.1        320.4       406.3        414.5        395.7      1,867.6        2S        473.9          1,393.8
Total Capitnl and Recurrent fonts                       318.5        696.6       675.7        928.4        435.8        424.2      3,379. 2       28      1,019.1          2,360.1



ANNEX 4
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Forestry Development
General
1.        The forestry sector plays a significant role in the Nigerian
economy. Forest lands supply about 50 million cubic meters or 95% of the
fuelwood used by the rural population. Over one million cubic meters of
sawn lumber are used for both urban and rural area housing construction
and other purposes. Exports of high value--sawn lumber, veneer, plywood
and logs--were a source of foreign exchange earnings (about US$10 million in
1974). However, because of increased demands, Government has recently banned
all exports of forestry products. Employment in the sector is estimated at
some 18,000 persons. Organized agro-forestry farming operations provide a
significant source of family income for an estimated 10,000 farmers.
2.        Forests cover about 119,000 square miles or about one third of
Nigeria's total land area. Permanent Government-controlled forest reserves
amount to 36,000 square miles out of this total. About 70,000 hectares of
plantation are reported to have been established, although actual areas are
probably well below reported areas. Forest lands play a critical role in
protecting water catchment areas, regulating stream flow, protecting soils
from wind and other erosion, providing a habitat for wildlife resources
and serve as an important reserve of land, some of high agricultural potential
for future agricultural settlement.
3.        About 70% of Nigeria's population relies on fuelwood as their
principal source of cooking and heating energy. In large areas of the country
existing woodlands have been denuded and many farmers are forced to utilize
cattle dung as an alternative or to purchase petroleum-based fuels e.g.,
kerosene. This is particularly difficult for families in the lower income
groups as they would have to spend a considerable part of their income on
kerosene in order to ensure satisfactory heating and cooking of food supplies.
Fuelwood plantations established on marginal lands not suitable for agricul-
ture could provide a cheaper alternative fuel as well as additional benefits
such as nut production, cattle fodder, building poles and soil protection.
4.        At the current annual rate of sawn timber consumption (about 1.5
million cubic meters) the remaining high forest will last for approximately
25 to 30 years. The number of sawmills operating in the country exceeds
350. Rapidly rising domestic markets has resulted in a sharp reduction of
exported lumber in the last decade (from about 500,000 cubic meters in 1966



ANNEX 4
Page 2
to 200,000 cubic meters in 1972). In order to remain self-sufficient in
future lumber supplies, it has been estimated that some 100,000 hectares
of industrial saw log plantations (short rotation species) will be needed
by 1990 over and above the already established plantations.
5.        Domestic pulp and paper consumption has increased dramatically
from about 40,000 tons in 1966 to about 130,000 tons in 1975 and it is
estimated to exceed 300,000 tons by 1985. One paper mill has already been
established and three new mills are planned but there is a critical shortage
of raw material to supply existing and future mill requirements. An estimated
100,000 hectares by 1985 will be needed to assure domestic self-sufficiency
and paper supply. If this program is not implemented, pulp and paper imports
will be costing Nigeria something in the order of US$150 million per annum
by mid-1980.
6.        Management of the forest reserves and control of the exploitation
of nonreserve forest is the responsibility of the State Governments, but
Local Government Council staff control felling and collect revenue. A major
function of the State Forestry Department has been the protection of the
natural forests. In Nigeria, State Forestry Departments are seriously handi-
capped in their ability to implement large development plans as they lack
trained personnel and expertise in project planning and implementation of
feasibility studies. However, on the positive side, many years of research
and development have already solved main technical and economical problems
of plantation forestry.
7.        Until 1971 the Federal Department of Forest Research located in
Ibadan provided technical information to the State Forest Departments and
managed subprofessional training at the Ibadan Forestry School and
professional training at the Jos Forestry School. Also in 1971 a Federal
Department of Forestry was established with the responsibility for developing
a national program and coordinating forestry development in the States. In
1976 the Department of Forestry Research was renamed the Federal Institute
for Forest Research which comes under the responsibility of the Agricultural
Research Council. As such it is not directly linked with the Federal Depart-
ment of Forestry which comes directly under the responsibility of FMARD. The
Federal Department of Forestry is expanding its activities through the
development of specialized divisions for planning, management, forest
industries, wildlife and conservation, extension and publicity and a saw-
mill training center. Allocation of Federal funds for forestry development
in the States is now managed and monitored by the Federal Department of
Forestry. Under the Third Development Plan (1975/80) some US$144 million is
budgeted for forestry development.
Plateau State
8.        Forest resources include gazetted forest reserves, community
forest areas, mining reclamation areas and extensive areas of low volume
savannahs in unallocated and private lands. The recorded areas of forest



ANNEX 4
Page 3
reserves, community forest areas and mine reclamation areas are: 3,727 sq km,
103 sq km, 12 sq km respectively and amount to about 8% of the State's land
area. There is little tree cover on the Jos Plateau and the forest reserves
which exist are mainly in the hilly and rocky areas bounding the Plateau
protecting it. Ownership of the forests is vested in the Local Government
Councils. The Forestry Department recommends protection and exploitation
practices and tariffs to be charged for forest produce, which upon agreement
by the Local Councils are then codified in forest rules. The last revision
of tariffs was in 1963 and is due for updating. Consideration is being
given to changing the existing pattern of revenue payments to LGCs so that
revenues from plantation produce will accrue to the State to offset forestry
development expenditures. 1/
9.        Communal forest areas date from the 1930s and were initiated in the
Jos Plateau with the objective of supplying the local requirement of fuel
which was even then in short supply. Villages agreed to set aside areas for
fuel production and undertook responsibility for providing their own free
labor for establishment and maintenance under the guidance of forestry
staff. By 1945 1,200 hectares had been planted in Jos Division but with
limited technical success because of unsuitable species, poor quality planting
stock and inadequate supervision. The scheme was extended throughout the
former Benue Plateau State and communal forest areas established in most
divisions (reportedly about 134 sq km was established). Local support for
the scheme has diminished, however, with a subsequent reduction in the
amount of voluntary labor and the Forests Department of Local Government
Councils have in many instances been paying cash wages to the villagers
employed. Problems have also originated in managing the tree blocks on a
sustained cutting cycle, with local people disregarding the prepared
management plans and with uncontrolled fellings; the latter resulted in gaps
in the canopy which caused weed growth in the tree blocks and severely down-
graded both production and quality of the crop. Harvesting arrangements
could contribute to the lack of support since it is common practice for the
crops to be sold standing to a contractor who will then resell the products
in the markets at a price of his choice. The contractor pays the Local
Government Council which uses this money for its community development
projects, but there is no direct benefit to the participating villages.
New planting in community forest areas has substantially declined since the
late 1960s.
Development Proposals
10.       In the project area, the present savannah is generally sufficient
for local farm supply of rough poles and fuel for the immediate future.
However, land has been cleared of trees for a radius of about five kilometers
or more around the main townships and both poles and fuel are trade goods
commanding high prices (upwards of N 0.01/pound for firewood--US$20 per cubic
meter--and N 1.0 for a 12-inch pole of borassus). The project will establish
1/   Although revenue accrues to LGC development, investments are normally
borne by the State.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
pole/fuelwood plantations around the major township so as to secure future
supplies at a reasonable cost at these main centers. The techniques developed
during the project would establish standards for forestry management and would
be used for extending this system to other areas in subsequent development
phases. The operations will be carried out by project staff on land set aside
and titled for forestry. Products from the project plantation will be sold
at economic stumpage prices so as to provide refinancing of replacement planta-
tions. Under the project 2,200 hectares will be established around Lafia, Doma,
Assaikio, Obi and Awe. It is proposed that existing forest reserves would be
used except for Awe, where land needs to be acquired.
11.       The nurseries supplying the plantations would also raise seedlings
for sale to farmers. This would include forest seedlings and also fruit
tree seedlings, especially citrus, mango, coconuts and cashew.
12.       Use of charcoal has a significant advantage over fuelwood and is
convenient for domestic food because it is easier to handle and store and
contains about double the heat value of well-dried wood. In addition, trans-
port costs of charcoal are less than half those of firewood. There are good
prospects that charcoal would be adopted as fuel in the larger townships. The
project would initiate charcoal production using both traditional earth kilns
and portable steel kiln methods to establish the industry in the area. The
project also includes a provision for the services of a charcoal specialist
consultant to assit in setting up this component.
13.       The project would also provide training courses to project staff
and woodworkers (local small-scale sawmill operators and carpenters).
14.       The project would assist in processing applications from small-scale
forestry industries (saw milling and carpentry) to the Small Industries Credit
Scheme which could provide credit to finance simple improved technology which
could substantially improve recovery rates, productivity and product quality.
15.       The project would assist in the development of the national forestry
program by supervising and extending introductory trials of tree species in the
project areas; assistance would also be provided at the State level in planning
forestry activities.
16.       Forestry activities would be under the responsibility of a separate
division in the Development Services Department. Because of severe staff
constraints a forestry specialist would be recruited internationally under the
Ayangba project. However, this specialist would work equally under the Lafia
Project.
17.       For successful project implementation the following aspects would
require detailed attention:
(a) Land for nurseries should be set aside.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(b) Forest tariffs are out of date and should be brought
in line with actual costs of growing forestry products.
(c) Tree seedlings should be sold to farmers at full cost
and present prices should be raised to that level;
project accounts would annually provide detailed informa-
tion to assess the actual costs.
(d) Land for the pole/fuelwood plantation in Awe should be acquired;
other pole/fuelwood plantations would be established in
already gazetted forest areas.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Forestry Activities
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5         Total
Nursery Establishment (No)              3         2         -         -        -            5
Nursery Production for
Plantations ('000)                  513    1,333    1,333    1,333    1,333          5,845
Fruit Trees for Sale ('000)            40        60        60        60       60         280
Other Trees for Sale ('000)            55        75        80        80       80         370
Subtotal                   608    1,473    1,473    1,473    1,473          6,495
Fuelwood/Pole Plantations (ha)
Lafia                                 -        75      125       125       125         450
Doma                                  -       100      150       150       150         550
Assaikio                              -        75      125       125       125         450
Ooi                                   -         -      150       150       150         450
Awe                                   -         -      100       100       100         300
Subtotal                     -       250      650       650       650       2,200
Charcoal Development:
Portable Kilns (No)                   2                                                  2
Introductory Species Trials
(Plots)                               1        1         1         1         1           5
Training Courses:
Project Staff (Trainees)             12         6                                       18
Woodworkers (Trainees)                -        20       20        20        20          80
July 29, 1976



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Forestry Costs (N'OOO) 1/
2/                                                                             7, Foreign    Foreign        Local
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Total Costs        Exchange      Costs        Cost
A. OVERHEAD AND ADMINISTRATION
Housing                                                    149.0          64.0           -             -             -             213.0              -            49.6        163.4
Buildings                                                   11.1           3,4           -             -             -               14.5             -             3.9         10.6
Vehicles                                                    29.6           3.2           -            12.4          10.8             56.0             -            44.0          12.0
Equipment                                                    4.8           0.8           -             -             -                5.6             40             2.2          3.4
Staff Salaries                                              49.4          67.4          67.4          67.4          67.4           319.0              -            20.5        298.5
Operating Costs                                              4.2           4.2           4.2           4.2           4.2             21.0             45             9.5         11.5
B. FORESTRY COMPONENTS
Nurseries Construction                                      39.4          26.3           -             -             -               65.7             65           42.7          23.0
Nurseries Operating                                         22.4          48.2          48.4          48.4          48.4            215.8             20           43.2         172.6
Plantation Establishment
Survey                                                     0.5           1.4           1.4           1.4           1.4              6.1             -              -            6.1
Access Tracks and Firebreaks                               1.5           3.5           4.0           4.5           4.9             18.4              18            3.3         15.1
Land Preparation, Planting
& Cultural Operations                                      -            74.1         203.6         226.6         235.0            739.3               3           22.2        717.1
Subtotal                                                 2.0          79.0         209.0         232.5         241.3           763.8                           25.5        738.3
Charcoal Production
Equipment                                                  2.4           -             -             -              -               2.4             60             1.4          1.0
Consultants                                                2.5           2.5           -             -             -                5.0            100             5.0          -
Subtotal                                                 4.9           2.5           -             -             -                7.4                            6.4          1.0
Training Cotrses                                             0.2           0.9           0.8           0.8            0.8             3.5              -             -            3.5
Introductory Species Trials                                  1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0            1.0             5.0             -              -            5.0
GRAND TOTAL                                              318.0         300.9         330.8         366.7         373.9          1,690.3                          247.5      1.442.8
1/  For full details see Supplement 5, Appendix 9.                                                                                                                                                   M
2/  No activities in Year 0.
October 28, 1976



ANNEX 5
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries Development
A. General
1.        Nigeria, with a population of 75 million, is the largest single
consumer of fish and fish products in Africa. However, both inland and
sea fisheries' potential remain comparatively unexploited. The fishing
industry is an important component in food production for the project area.
The southern boundary of the Lafia Project lies on the Benue river. It is
estimated from records produced by the Fisheries Department that 26,000
metric tons of fish were harvested from these rivers and marketed in the
project area during 1975/76, as against 6,000 - 10,000 metric tons per
annum between 1968/69 and 1974/75. Total value of the catch rose less
dramatically from N 0.6 million in 1968/69 through N 5.0 million in 1974/75
to over Ni 5.75 million in 1975/76. A 1966 FAO study estimated the total
catch of northern fisheries at 30,000 - 50,000 metric tons per annum, of
which two thirds came from 'fadamas' or flood plains. Demand for fish is
high but availability becomes increasingly scarce as distance from the
rivers and fishing areas increases. The natural diet of the people consists
principally of starchy foods lacking in proteins, and including more fish
in the diet would play a valuable part in improving the nutrition of the
people. Studies of the fishing potential of the Benue and Niger rivers
have been carried out by FAO with UNDP financing, and information from
these studies has assisted in preparing the fisheries component of the
projects.
2.        Under the project it is proposed to:
(a) strengthen the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture in Plateau State by providing the services
of a fisheries expert who will be located in the Ayangba
project, and who will assist and advise the Fisheries
Departments of Benue and Plateau States in the long-term
expansion and devleopment of the industry;
(b) establish a Fisheries Training Center at Bagana with a
capacity of 20 trainees;
(c) construct and manage 4 bunded lagoons of approximately
30 acres; these will provide a fertile breeding and
growing habitat for fish which, by single sluice gate
control, will be operated as intensive fishing areas
under close Fisheries Department control, backed by
appropriate legislation;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(d)  promote through fishery extension experts the use of
improved fish-drying practices, prototypes of which have
been designed using ready-to-hand materials under FAQ
investigatory work in 1969.
3.        FMG has developed plans to make an authority which would cover
the fishing in the Benue and Niger rivers. Included are also proposals to
provide credit to fisherman and to provide marketing assistance for frozen
fish. Although these proposals have not reached yet beyond the conception
stage, the project would liaise closely with any other development efforts for
fisheries in the Benue and Niger rivers.
4.        Fishery development in Plateau State is mainly directed at fish
farming.  A fish farm exists already in Panyam, but its operations need to
be considerably improved. Tin mining on the Plateau (around Jos and outside
the project area) leaves large pits and tests are presently being undertaken
to determine if these pits could be used as fish ponds. If successful, this
would open large opportunities for non-river-oriented fishery development in
Plateau State. However, the project would not be engaged in fish pond develop-
ment or fish farming.
B. Development Proposals
Extension Services
5.        The fisheries extension service would be expanded and the quality
improved under the project. The extension service would have the backing of
a 'Fish Conservation and Management Act' as the one to be enacted in Benue
State. Credit facilities are not considered suitable for fisherman who are
generally itinerant and can offer little substantial colateral. Assistance
to fishermen will, therefore, be directed at extending a knowledge of improved
techniques by demonstration and on-the-spot training.
6.        An expatriate Head of the Fisheries Section in the Ayanbga project
would be engaged who would be responsible for conducting the training program,
identifying lagoon sites, supervising lagoon construction, and providing
technical assistance to MANR.  Although the fishery expert would be engaged
under the Ayangba project, he would also be responsible for supervising
the small fishery component of the Lafia project and for technical assistance
to Plateau State MANR.
7.        Some scholarships will be provided under the project to train pro-
mising Nigerian extension staff overseas.
Fisheries Training Center
8.        Under the Ayangba project a center would be established at Bagana
which is suitably located, having immediate access to the Benue river and from
which work could readily be conducted along both the Benue and Niger rivers.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Lagoon Fishing
9.        The project proposes to develop and manage four bunded lagoons at
sites to be selected along the northern bank of the Benue river. The
principle of establishing bunded lagoons was propounded in the FAO study in
1967 though information on their potential yield and management is scanty.
A lagoon consists of an area of land which may be immediately adjacent to
the river or may be located at a low point set back some way from the river
in the form of a network board. During the flood season, access to these
ponds is left open and fish are attracted into the lagoon by the presence
of greater food supplies than occur in the fast flowing river. Some addi-
tional crop wastes, if suitable, can be distributed into the lagoon as a
further attraction for fish to enter.
10.       The lagoon provides a spawning ground for the fish, and, at the
fall of the river, the sluice gates controlling lagoon capacity would be
closed and the fish thus impounded in the lagoon. Fishing of each lagoon
would be strictly controlled by a fisheries assistant who would act in con-
junction with the traditonal chief responsible in the area for managing
the lagoon with the aid of powers provided under the Fish Conservation and
Management Act. The fisheries assistant would provide technical assistance
to fishermen in the area particularly on matters of fishery management,
harvesting, processing and marketing, rather than in fishing techniques,
since very effective methods are currently employed. Each fisheries assistant
in charge of a lagoon would have his house sited nearby and would be equipped
with a canoe and outboard together with a set of scales permitting accurate
recording of lagoon cropping performance.
11.       Lagoon locations have yet to be determined, but financing for four
has been provided. An average of 30 acres has been assumed for project
lagoons. Data provided by the FAO team on a limited number of sample lagoons
indicate a yield of about 150 kg per acre per annum. Peak yields occurring
over fishing festival have been as high as four tons from a small lagoon on a
single day. Fisheries Department estimates are one ton per acre per annum.
For project calculations, an estimated yield of 20 tons per 30-acre lagoon per
annum has been taken, having a value of N 14,000 per annum. Improved access to
lagoon areas will play a major part in a promoting their development and
exploitation through improved marketing prospects.
12.       Users of lagoon fishing would pay a service charge of N 10 per
annum to cover development and maintenance of lagoons; the number of users
would be limited by agreement between the fisheries assistant and the local
chief. Bunding would be carried out using hand labor with clay-faced bunds.
This method has proved satisfactory in an experimental lagoon at Lokoja.
Provision for two sluice gates has been included.
13.       Investment costs for bunded lagoons are estimated at N 2,500-3,000.
For details see Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Improved Fish Drying
14.       Particular benefits could be derived by local fishermen using
improved but very simple drying kilns for fish drying. The FAO study
noted that the kilns have a two-fold increase in capacity, needed one-
sixth of the fuel and one-third of the processing time. It also resulted
in a uniform product of high quality. When linked to improved but very
simple transport boxes, using chicken wire, considerable increased benefits
can be derived by farmers. It is proposed to promote the improved processing
and marketing purely through the project fishery extension agents, with
fishermen themselves providing all materials required which are inexpensive
and easily obtained, e.g., old oil drums and chicken netting.
Costs
15.       Costs of fishery development are in Table 2 attached to this annex.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Bunded Lagoons 1/
Unit                                                                                Year 6
Costs        Year 1          Year 2       Year 5        Year 4        Year 5        Onwards
A. Investments
Bunded Lagoons
Bund Construction                       0.2             -       (5)    1.0   (8)   1.6    (6)   1.2
Sluice Gates                            0.5             -     (10)    5.0  (16)   8.0   (12)   6.0               -
Fish Scales                             0.1             -       (s)    0.5   (8)   o.8    (6)   0.6             -
Fishery Assistant Canoes                1.0             -       (5)    5.0   (8)   8.0    (6)   6.0             -              -
Land Compensation                       0.5             -       (5)    2.5   (8)   4.0    (6)   3,0             -              -
Subtotal                                                        14.0         22.4           16.8
Other Capital Costs
Senior Houses                          30.0       (3)  90.0            -            -             -
Junior Houses                         14.0       (5)  70.0             -      (8) 112.0    (6)  84.o             -             -
DeLuxe Four-Wheel Drive                 9.0       (1)   9.0            -            -       (1)   9.0            -             -
Four-Wheel Drive                        6.o      (2)   6.0             -            -       (2)   6.0            -             -
Motorcycles                             0.8      (5)   4.0             _      (8)   6.4    (6)   4.8             -             -
Subtotal                                        179.0                        118.4         103.8
B. Recurrent
Fishery Advisor                       32.0       (1)  32.0    (1)   52.0   (1)  32.0    (1)  32.0                -             -
Senior Fishery Officers                 6.o      (2)  12.0    (2)   12.0   (2)  12.0    (2)  12.0    (2)  12.0    (2)  12.0
Fishery Assistants                      1.7       (5)   8.5    (5)    8.5  (13)  22.1   (19)  32.3   (19)  32.3   (19)  32.3
Clerks                                  1.0       (2)   2.0    (2)    2.0   (2)   2.0    (2)   2.0    (2)   2.0    (2)   2.0
DeLuxe Four-Wheel Drive                 2.4       (1)   2.4    (1)    2.4   (1)   2.4    (1)   2.4    (1)   2.4    (1)   2.4
Four Wheel Drive                        2.1       (2)   4.2    (2)    4.2   (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2
Bunded Lagoon Maintenance                               -              -      (5)   5.0   (13)  13.0   (19)  19.0   (19)  19.0
Subtotal                                         61.1            61.1         79.7          97.9          71.9           71.9
C.  TOTAL COSTS                                           240.1           75.1        220.5         218.5           71.9          71.9       Rate of Return
D.  TOTAL BENEFTTS                                          -               _           65.0         169.o         247.0         247.0        10 years    14.05*
---=        ----- =====   ====   15 years    19.95%
20 years    21.45%
j  Theoretically constructed on the basis of the 19 lagoons to be built under the two projects.
X/ Nl,000 per lagoon (F700 maintenance; W200 outboard engine/boat; W100 miscellaneous).



NIGERIA
LAFIA AIR.ICHI.TURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJE.CT
Unit                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foreign Exchange
Units          Costs          Year 0          Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5          Toa                            CotLclCt
A.  CAPITAL COST
Buildi.g.
Intermediate Hoose               No             21.0            -            (1)  21.0               -                              -                         (1)   21.0         25             5.3             15.7
Junior Nouse 1/                  No             14.0            -             (1)  14.0       (1)  14.0       (1)  14.0           -                            (3)   42.0         25          10.5              31.5
Traditional Nooses               N.              4.0             -                  -         (1)   4.0       (1)   4.0           -                            (2)    8.0         10            0.8               7.2
Subtotal                                                                           35.0             18.0            18.0          --71.0                                                      16.6              54.4
Vehicles
Pirk-up                          No              4.0             -            (1)   4.0              -                           4.0-                          (2)     8.0        80            6.4               1.6
Motor cycles 2/                  No              0.8-                      -                  (2)   1.6       (2)   1.6          4.0o                          (4)     3.2        60            1.9               1.3
subtotal                                                                            4.0              1.6             1.6                           -11,2                                        8.3               2.9
Rood Construction 125 m/d @
N 1.75 rsfd                     No              0.2--                                        (2)   0.4        (2)   0.4          --                           (4)    0.8         --                              0.8
Sluice Gates                     No              0.5--                                        (4)   2.0       (4)   2.0           --                           (8)    4.0         60            2.4               1.6
Fish Scales                      No              0.1                                -         (2)   0.2       (2)   0.2                            -           (4)    0.4         75            0.3               0.1
Fisheries Assistants'
Canoes southboard               No              1.0                                 .        (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0                           -           (4)    4.0         50            2.0               2.0
Land Compensation -.
- N15/acre                      NO              0.5--                                        (2)   1.0       (2)   1.0           --                           (2)     2.0                                        2.0
Subtotal                                                                                             5.6             5.6                                              11.2        40            4.7               6.5
Total Capital Costs                                                                39.0             25.2            25.2      64.0                 -93.4                          40           29.6              63.8
8.  RECURENT COMST
Staff
Fisheries Superintendent                         3.7-                         (1)   3.7       (1)   3.7        (1)   3.7       (1)  3.7        (1)     3.7     (5)   18.5         -                              18.5
Fisheries Assistant           Man year            1.7-                        (1)   1.7       (3)   5.1        (5)   8.5       (5)  8.5        (5)     8.5    (19)   32.3                 -                      32.3
Clark                                '            1.0                         (1)   1.0       (1)   1.0        (1)   1.0       (1)  1.0        (1)     1.0     (5)      5.0               -                       5.0
Labor                                '            0.8-                        (3)   2.4       (5)   4.0        (5)   4.0       (5)  4.0        (5)    4.0    (23)    18.4         -       -                      18.4
Driver                         "     '           0.9             -(1)   0.9                   (1)   0.9        (1)   0.9       (1)  0.9        (1)    0.9.    (5)   4.5.          -              .                4.5
subtotal                                                                             9.7            14.7             18.1           18.1              15.1            78.7                                       78.7
Standard and Project
Allowance (75%)                                                                     7.3            11.0             13.6           13.6              13.6             59.11       15            8.9             5.
Total Staff Costs                                             ~~~~~~~~~~17.0   25.7             31.7           31.7              31.7            137.8                      8.9             128.9
Operating & Maintenance
Rood Maintenance @ 257.--                                                                                      ()     06        ()3.            4       .                .                                          .
total cost                                                                                                     2     06        4 30            4      306666
Pick-up                       Vehicle/yr.         1.8-                        (1)   1.8       (1)   1.8        (1)   1.8       (1)  1.8        (1)     1.8      (5)     9.0        45            4.0               5.0
Outboard Engine               Engine/yr.         0.2--                                        (2)   0.4        (4)   0.8        (4)  0.8       (4)     0.8    (14)      2.8        45            1.3               1.5
Subtotal                                                                             1.8             2.2              3.2            5.6               5.6             18.4                      5.3              13.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                                               18.6            27.9             34.9           37.3              37.3            156.2                     14.2             142.0
Total Capital and
Recurrent Costs                                                                    57.8            53.1             60.1           41.3              37. 3           249.6                     43.820.
1/ Rousing for fisheries assaisttant calculated at 50%. Junior standard, 507. traditional.
2/ Will be bought by fiaheries assistants.



ANNEX 6
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Civil Works
General
1.        Nigeria has in recent years experienced a very rapid increase in
activity in all branches of the construction industry. A large number of
indigenous and foreign firms are established in the country. Major works
in the public sectors are ordinarily carried out by contract, with minor
works of a recurrent nature and maintenance works being done by force
account.
2.        Between the project areas, there are some variations in local
construction capacity and availability of labor. Although the Ayangba pro-
ject area is a region of emigration, seasonal and permanent unskilled labor
is expected to be available, but the construction industry is not strong,
even in house construction. Conversely, the Lafia project area is short of
unskilled labor but the local construction industry for housing is well
established. In none of the areas are there any local contractors capable
of undertaking road construction works except for artisans constructing
minor drainage structures.
3.        Major equipment for civil works is not manufactured in the
country, and with the increase in construction activity in recent years,
spare parts are particularly difficult to obtain. There is a shortage of
skilled mechanics and equipment operators who command relatively high
salaries. Materials are subject to long delivery times. The projects
should therefore provide for initial purchase of buffer stocks of spare
parts and materials.
4.        Project development proposals for civil works consist of road
maintenance and reconstruction, construction and rehabilitation of
wells, dams for water supply in grazing reserves, and a large construc-
tion program of houses, office buildings and stores.
Organization and Management
5.        All project civil works will be executed and administered by
the project's Engineering Department, headed by a Chief Civil Engineer.
A Road Division will be responsible for road and dam construction, a
Water Supply Division for water supply for human consumption, and a
Building Division for housing, farm service centers and other building
construction. A central workshop will provide central maintenance for
all project civil works activities.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
6.        The Roads and Water Supply Divisions will be headed by, respec-
tively, an experienced Road Engineer and a Hydrologist. The Building
Division would be headed by a Building Supervisor, under immediate super-
vision of the Chief Civil Engineer. The project's building construction
program would mostly be completed by Year 2. By that time the Building
Division would be abolished. Upon completion of construction, responsibil-
ity for houses and offices would revert to the Housing Division in the
Administration Department. A single Hydrologist will be responsible for
both project areas, dividing his time about two thirds to Lafia and one
third to Ayangba. The project workshop for maintenance of vehicles and
heavy equipment would be headed by a very practical and experienced Work-
shop Engineer.
Road Development
7.        General.  An enormous amount of road construction is presently
being undertaken in Nigeria. As an indication, the Federal trunk road net-
work (see the map attached to this annex) reveals the magnitude of the road
development undertaking. State road development plans have also increased
substantially. As a general rule, therefore, coverage by State and Federal
roads is adequate, taking all construction plans into account. Maintenance
is more of a problem, not so much because of lack of funds, but mainly because
of insufficient organization and lack of spare parts. Roads under Local
Government Council (LGC) and community control are, however, inadequate
in coverage and standards and are usually not motorable all year round.
8.        The road situation in the project areas can be summarized as
follows:
Lafia
km
Federal roads                 174
State roads                   243
LGC roads                     360
Community roads               800
9.        The condition of the road network in the project area is one of the
most important factors relating to the success of agricultural development.
The extent of the network is, with a few exceptions, adequate, but only the
main Federal road links in the area receive proper maintenance. Consequently,
all secondary and tertiary roads are in an unacceptable condition. Transport
costs are very high (up to N 0.30 per ton km) and truckers are unwilling to
risk their vehicles on several of the access roads to important agricultural
areas. Traffic volumes vary greatly but are generally light, estimated not
to exceed 15 vehicles per day on any of the Local Government Council (LGC)
or community roads. Because of the poor conditions of the network, most
traffic is restricted to the dry season.
10.       The Federal road network traversing the project area comprises 63 km
of the main Jos-Makurdi road, and an additional 111 km recently taken over
from the State Government for incorporation into the Federal trunk road system.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Allowing for the fact that improvement works to Federal standards have not
been completed but are programmed and budgeted for the present Five-Year
Development Plan period, the Federal road system in the project area
presents no constraint on proposed project activities.
11.       The State roads in the project area comprise 243 km of gravel,
laterite and earth-surfaced roads. The extent of this network appears
adequate, but construction standards (which are satisfactory) are not
always followed, and in spite of sufficient funds (N 600 per km annually),
maintenance is very poor. The State Ministry of Works (MOW) Divisional
Headquarters is adequately equipped and staffed for field operations, but
equipment maintenance is very unsatisfactory mainly due to the difficulty
of supplying spare parts. If more funds presently allocated to maintenance
were used to build up an adequate stock of spare parts, maintenance operations
would improve considerably. It is therefore imperative that Government ensure
that (a) funds allocated to maintenance be spent for that purpose; and (b)
equipment maintenance be improved, and an acceptable level of spare parts
stock be established.
12.       The two LGCs presently have 360 km of rural roads under their
responsiblity. The extent of this network alone is not sufficient to ensure
motor vehicle access to all cultivated areas in the division. Design stand-
ards are satisfactory, but only applied to actual construction on a limited
part of the network. There is no mechanized maintenance, and the actual
labor force of about 100 is insufficient (about 1 laborer per 4 km or 1/3 of
requirements). The LGC is taking over community tracks (usually upgraded
by the communities themselves with voluntary labor) at a rate of about 25
km per year.
13.       The extent of the community track network is not precisely known,
but is estimated at about 800 km. Tracks are only partially motorable even
in the dry season, and drainage works are almost nonexistent. FMG plans to
improve the Lafia-Doma-Rutu road (35 km) under the Five-Year Development
Plan. The State Government plans to improve the Lafia-Obi-Keana road
(66 km). Funds have been allocated for these projects and work has started
on the Lafia-Shendam road. All projects are expected to be completed by
1979.
14.       The project would undertake road construction and improvement
works on a total of 600 km of LGC and community roads. It is estimated
that about 280 km of LGC roads would require reconstruction and approximately
an additional 320 km of community tracks would have to be improved to LGC
standards. The road construction and maintenance program under the project
is detailed in Table 1. All road improvements under the project would be
undertaken to the standards discussed in Supplement 7. Road maintenance forms
an important component of the project. Maintenance operations would not be
restricted to project-constructed roads and should commence at the start of
the project so as to avoid further deterioration of the presently motorable
sections.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
15.       Execution.  Several possible agencies were considered for program
implementation. There are no small local road civil engineering contractors
in the areas and major Nigerian or foreign agencies would not be attracted
by the limited scope and long period necessary for road improvement.
16.       At present the State Ministry of Works (MOW) is hardly able to
adequately maintain the roads for which it is responsible, and would not
have spare capacity to execute the project's road construction program.
The same applies also for Local Government Council road divisions, which are
not mechanized and generally have too low a labor force to ensure adequate
labor/km ratios for maintenance, and would clearly not have any capacity to
execute the program. This situation is not likely to change, although mainte-
nance responsibilities might switch to the Federal Ministry of Works on the
basis of a road maintenance study by a consultant. However, these recommen-
dations could be implemented only during project development.
17.       The roads programs would therefore be undertaken directly by the
project, which would purchase equipment, construct workshops and engage staff
as required to carry out the works by force account.
18.       Both construction and maintenance would be undertaken under the
project. For details see Table 1. A limited emergency rehabilitation
program would commence at the start of the project period to ensure that
roads do not seriously deteriorate until project improvement works are
undertaken.
19.       Road maintenance would form an important part of the project.
The existing LGC road divisions would continue to operate their hand-labor
maintenance gangs. In addition, mechanized maintenance (grading and re-
surfacing) would be undertaken by the project. Close liaison would be
established with the LGC road divisions for joint planning of maintenance,
and staff would be seconded from LGC to the project for training.
20.       At the end of the project period, equipment would be handed over
to the LGC. It is estimated that the equipment would have a remaining life of
about two years. Adequate funds should be budgeted for staffing and replacing
LGC equipment in the postproject development period so as to allow them to
undertake the increased road maintenance responsibilities.
21.       Standards.  All road improvements under the project would be
undertaken to the standards shown in the attached Chart 16365. Major realign-
ment works are not expected and earth works would be light, except on a few
bridge crossing sites. Lateritic material is available over the entire project
area and would be used for surfacing when required; an estimated 50% of the
construction length would require surfacing.
22.       The basic construction tool would be the motorgrader, which would be
used for shaping of formation, roadside ditch construction, and surfacing.
Hard laterite outcrops would require a suitable bulldozer, which also would



ANNEX 6
Page 5
be used for cleaning in bush and forest areas. Excavation, transport and
placing of surface material would be done by scraper, dozer, wheel-loader
and tip-trucks. Operating lists of plant and equipment are listed in
Table 2.
23.       Drainage works would, except for side ditches, be done by hand
labor. Cut-off ditches would be dug by hand, and culverts would be
prefabricated concrete pipes and masonry boxes. Many small existing
bridges would require renewal of timber decks.
24.       Self-help by voluntary labor is widely practiced in the area for
road works, and the project would encourage this. The emphasis would be on
providing farm access tracks from the project roads, and the project would
assist in alignment selection and provide the modest amount of materials
required.
Water Supply
25.       Availability of water in the project area varies markedly over the
year. During the dry season (November to March), many streams and ponds in
the area dry up. Presently, only Lafia town has a pumped water supply
system; a contract has been awarded for the construction of a similar system,
fed by boreholes, for Obi.   All other towns and villages utilize either
wells or surface streams for water supply.
26.       Outside Lafia town there are about 215 Government-constructed wells
and about 800 privately-built ones. Government wells are 1.2 m in diameter,
concrete lined and with a depth of 10 to 30 meters. The top is raised about
0.8 m above ground, but there is no protective cover. Pumps or pulleys for
lifting the water are not installed, and all water is drawn by bucket. Private
wells are unlined, about 1 m in diameter, and usually have no protective
structure at the top.
27.       No chemical or bacteriological survey is available, but water quality
in general appears low. Wells are frequently polluted by recharge from surface
run-off or rubbish thrown into the well.   When surface water is available, it
is frequently used indiscriminately for bathing, laundry and human consumption.
Bilharzia is endemic in the area. Daily water consumption is estimated at
about 10 liters per person.
28.       The area contains coarse-textured sandstone formations separated
by bands of fractured shales. The sandstone soils are quite permeable and
not generally suited for surface water retention, but constitute an important
aquifer where relatively shallow wells are practicable. Yields of existing
wells within the shale bands show potential sources of water when located at
joints and fractures; since the unfractured shale surface is impermeable,
close ground survey of catchments may reveal suitable dam sites. Soils
of volcanic origin occur in the vicinity of Awe. Useful groundwater exists
in the fractured basalt and is held in the joints and ash layers; construction
of shallow wells in the weathered zones should provide satisfactory yields.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Some saline springs occuring in Awe and Keana are possibly caused by
leaching of a salt dome brought about by tectonic activity. The water
quality of surrounding wells, however, indicates that the saline water
is localized, and a well that was deepened in Keana showed that salinity
decreases with depth.
29.       Project policy would be to make potable water available to all
rural families and establish a satisfactory water supply for livestock.
Most small hamlets are situated near perennial streams, and the most
pressing water supply problem is to be found in the medium and large
villages. It is estimated that about 60% of the rural population in the
area is in need of improved water supply from wells. The project would
provide a geophysical survey to locate the site of new wells, as well as
equipment, materials and staff for executing project works. As the water-
bearing strata in general are found 10-40 m below ground level, present
Government well standards are proposed. New wells would be dug by hand
and lined with concrete. Hand-operated pumps would be fitted and the well
tops sealed off to prevent contamination.
30.       LGC presently spends about N 29,000 a year on maintanence and
construction of wells. Six field crews (of which two are run by LGC and
four by MOW) are active in the project area. Production rates are low,
one crew averaging one well constructed and four rehabilitated per year.
The present Government construction plans would result in about 250 Govern-
ment wells being in operation in the area by 1980. It is estimated that
requirements amount to about 630 wells. Under the project, 400 wells would
therefore be constructed, in addition to rehabilitation of about 100 existing
wells. The present MOW and LGC crews would be rationalized and integrated
into the project.
31.       Construction practices involve excavation by hand tools and
lining with either precast concrete rings or cast in situ concrete. The
method requires the use of drainage pumps for excavation below ground water
level.  Wells would be provided with hand pumps and sealed covers for
protection against contamination.
32.       The grazing reserves proposed under the project are deficient in
surface water for consumption by livestock. Allowance for construction of
up to 25 small earthfilled dams has been made to provide watering for
cattle.
33.       Dams for storage of rangeland water in the grazing reserves will
be constructed to the standards shown in Chart 16366 attached to this annex.
The dams would be of earthfill, with a clay core when required. Stone pitching
would be used for protection of the upstream face and wherever spillway flows
are rapid, gabions would protect the overflow channels. The average dimensions
of a dam are estimated at 6 m in maximum height! 120 m in length, with a3crown
of 3 meters.  Earthworks will be around 8,000 m  for the dam and 2,000 m  for
the spillway. Position and dimension of each dam and well will be determined
by a hydrological survey of the areas, to be carried out in the grazing
reserves.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Buildings
34.       Building requirements for project headquarters and extension
centers consist of staff housing, offices, workshops and stores. Building
design would be done under contract with local architectural firms, but
standard designs exist already 1/ and they would be used to the extent
possible.
35.       Implementation of the building programs must adapt to local
conditions of the contracting industry. Contracting would be used wherever
available and would be competitive in price and quality. Average size and
cost of each type of unit are listed in Table 3. No price differential
is estimated between contract and force account works. Number of houses is
in Table 5.
Project Costs
36.       Costs are summarized in Table 5 and detailed in Tables 6 to 11.
1/   Since the projects are similar to the Northern Agricultural Development
Projects, most designs have already been made for these project.



ANNEX 6
NIGER-IA                              Table 1
PLATFATT STATF
LAPTA AraPCTJL7TJRAL !)EVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Phasing of Road Construction and Maintenance
Year           ------Construction        --             -----Maintenance---
Type 1    Type 2    Total               Routine    Periodic
km        km                             km           km
1               50         50        100                   -         100
2              140         20        160                   80        100
3               88         52        140                  220       100
4                         100        100                  400        240
5                         100        100                  580        240
Following years                                          (680)      (340)
Total          278        322        600                1280         780
July 19, 1976



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Cost of Plant and Equipment
Unit cost   Transport   Unit cost   Fuel   Lubricants   Tyres   Spares &   Total   Foreign   Foreign    Local
ex Lagos    to site       on site             Filters                 repairs             Cost  %    Cost         Cost
Motorgrader   150 h/p               50          2.0            52      2.33        0.59        1.01      2.80       6.73       40        2.69       4.04
Motorgrader   125 h/p                40         2.0            42       1.93       0.28        0.72      2.10       5.03       40        2.01       3.02
Wheel Loader                         30         2.0            32      1.32        0.43        1.01      2.12       4.88       40        1.95       2.93
Agric. tractor                                                  7       0.61       0.14        0.28      0.20       1.23       50        0.62       0.61
Smooth wheel roder  8 tons          27          1.2            28.2    0.70       0.19          --       0.77       1.66       30        0.50       1.16
Tipper   7 tons                     11                         11       0.86       0.11        1.09      1.52       3.58       50        1.79       1.78
4-wheel drive                         6                         6      0.80        0.21        0.36      0.30       1.67       45        0.75       0.92
Pick up   1/2 ton                     4.0                       4        o.80      0.11        0.36      0.30       1.57       45        0.71        o.86
Concrete mixer                        2                         2       0.16       0.05         --       0.05       0.26       25        0.07       0.19
Water bowser  4.5 m3                  3.5                       3.5      --         --         0.04      0.06       0.10       50        0.05       0.05
Trailer  3.5 tons                     1.5                       1.5      --         --         0.07      0.07       0.14       60        0.08       0.06
Water pump                            1.0                       1.0    0.50        0.05         --       0.08       0.63       15        0.10        0.53
Generator  2.5 kVA                    1.0                       1.0    0.62        0.15         __       0.20       0.97       25        0.24        0.73
Hand tools                                                      7.0      --         --                    --         --        --          --         --
Dozer D-7 with ripper                                          80.0    3.13        0.83                  8.16      12.12       40        4.85        7.27
Fuel tanker                                                    16.0    0.86        0.11        1.09      1.52       3.58       50        1.79        1.79
Scraper  (towed)                                               22.5      --        0.20        1.40      1.10       2.70       50        1.35        1.35
Low bed tractor                                                65       3.44       0.44        4.40      6.00      14.28       50         7.14       7.14
Scraper, self propelled, 150 hp                                50       1.68       0.56        1.56      4.00       7.80        50        3.90       3.90



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Schedule of Building Costs
(N)
No. of Sub-
Sub-Unit          Units Per
Sub-Unit         Cost              Unit            Unit Cost
A.   HaJSING
Senior Staff Houses                               i2               165             10               30,000
Intermediate Staff Houses                         A2               140              150              21,000
Junior Staff Houses                               a2               120              115              14,000
TrA.ditional Houses                                2                _                _                4,00-
B.  BUILDINGS
Office Building                                   m2               100            1,500             150,000
Workshop                                           2                75              400              30,000
Fuel Depot                                                                           - -              5,000
Parking                                            R2                3               -                  360
Acceas Roads, including Drive-ins                  Km                                -               12,000
Electrical Supplr                                 Km                -                -                5,000
Sewage (septic tanks)                             No               100                -                 100
Landscaping                                       Ha               125                                  125
Fencing                                           a                 -                 -                   7
Water Supply                                        2                                -                   15
Landing Strip                                      2                 1           30O000              30,000
Recreational Facilities (lump sum)                                  -                -               50,000
Guest House                                       K2               165              240             )40,000
Design and Iay-out 3%
C.  FARM SERVICE CENTERS
Store                                             22                75              255              19,000
Apron                                              a2               12                60                700
Fencing                                           a                  7 T00                            2,#0
3.uipment                                                                            -                1,100
Aecess Road                                                                           -               1,200
Lay-out 3.5%                                                                                          1.200
&6&.X0Q0       tx
July 14, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 4
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Houses
Senior   Intermediate   Junior   Traditional
Extension Staff                     3            5            21          40
Farm Management                     2            7            10          13
Livestock                           3           14            16          29
Forestry                           -             1            12           6
Fisheries                          -             1             3           2
Civil Works                        6             4            14
Management                          6            3            12           9
Seed Multiplication                1             3             2           7
Research                            1            3             -           2
Training                           1             2             4           7
Evaluation                         (2)           2             6           -
Commercial Services                 8            5            12          76
33           50           112         191



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTUSAL DEVEU3P?HEN  PROJECT
Engineering Department. Summary of Costs 1/
Year 0        Year 1       Year 2         Year 3        Year 4       Year 5         Total        Foreign   Tocal
Housing                                 404.0          71.0                                                                 475.0         127.0        348.0
Buildings,                               30.0                        -            -             -            -               300                        22.5
Workshop Equipment                                     32.6           0.8          0.8           0.8          0.8            35.8          23.9          11,9
Plant and Equipment                      -            876.7          81.0         81.0         141.0         81.0        1,260.7          979.2        281.5
Materials                                -             64.o          76.5         68.6          68.6          63.6          341.3          71.9        269.4
International Staff                      66.0         128.0         128.0        128.0         128.0         30.0          608.0          456.o        152.0
Local Staff                              54.6         357.5         395.0        395.0         386.8        378.5        1,967.4          126.5      1,840.9
Operating Costs of Equipment             -            105.0          107.6       108.4         108.4        107.5           536.9         227.3        309.6
TOTAL                               554.6       1,634.8         788.9        781.8         833.6        661.4        5,255.1        2,019.3      3,235.8
1/  For details see Supplement 7, Appendix 1.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Productionl Rates 19 Plant Requircements for Critical Units
(N 00o0)
Pr
Averaze Dimension              Length (km)               Total              OutputP ---------____-------____-Planr Hours------____________________,__
Type I     Type 2           Type I       Type 2         Quantit_             Rates         Dozer         Grader        Wheel Loader       Roller   Ti2per          Scraper
1   Road Construction
Clearing, Open Country or
Scattered Bush                      8m             12 m         180          220         4,080,000 m2          5,000 m2/h       816
Clearing Light Bush                   8W             12 m          50           32           784,000 m2          3,000            261
Clearing Heavy Bush                    8m            12 m          20           40           640,000 m2          2,000            320                                                                   1,500
Clearing Forest                       8m             10 i          28           30           524 000o'           1,200            437                                                                   3,300
Top Soiling                            -         1,500 m3/km       -            60            90 000 i3s            50 m3/h        -
Earth Works                       3,000 ml/km   3,OOC m3/km        20           35           165,000 m2             50 m3/h    1,800                                                                    1,800
Shaping (subgrade)                    8m              8m          Z78          322         4,800,000 m2          1,500 m2/h                    3,200
Compaction (subgrade)                 4m              4m          278          322         2,400,000 m2            500 m2/h                                                    4,800
Surfacing                             4m              4m          140          160         1,200 000 m              40 m3/h    2,000                          2,000                       6,700         2,000
Compaction (surface)                  4m              4m          140          160         1,200,000 m             500 m3/h                                                    2,400
Offshoot Drains 2/                  200 m/lk        500 m/km      56           161            91,000 m              30 m/day
Culverts                               -             -            -                     -                 -                -
Shaping (surface)                      -             -            -             -          2,400,000             1,500 m2/h       _            1,600
2, Road Maintenance
Shaping                                              --                         -           5,120,000m2          1,500 m2/h                    3,413
Resurfacing                                                       -             -              3,000 m3             40 m3/h                      210             780
3.  Dam Construction
Clearing                                                                                     105,000 m2          3,000 m2/h         35
Trenching                                                                                     25,000 is3            30 is2/h       850520                                                                  00
Earth Works                                                                                  250,000 m3             40 m3/h      1,000                         5,250                      5.200          1,000
Rip-rap                                                                                       13,000 m3              6 m3/h                                                                5,300
Gabions                                                                                        2 000 m3              6 m3/h                                                                  300
Compaction                                                                                 1,000,000 m2            500 m2/h
Total Plant Hours                                                                                                                7.519         8,423           8,030           9,200      23,700         8.100
Hours Per Year                                                                                                                   1,503          1,684          1,606            1,840      4,740          1,620
No. of Units                                                                                                                          1             1              1                1          3              1
Ij  Type 1 =  improvement/reconstruction of LGA road
Type 2 =  improvement of tracks and new construction
all toLGC standards.
2/  4 wan gang, hand labor
3/ 6  /h for road worka, 28m3/h for dam construction earth  works.
- 1 9
july 14. 1976



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Utilization  and Operating Cost
Hourly          Year 1             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4              Year 5                    Foreign   Foreign   Local
No.     Cost          our_s  Ca2t        Hours   Cost        Hours   Cost        Hours   Cost        Hours   cost        Total      Cost       Cost       Cost
Motorgrader 150 hp             1        6.73       1,600   10.8        1,700   11.4        1,700   11.4        1,700   11.4        1,723   11.6        56.6        40        22.6       34.0
Dozer                          1       12.12       1,500   18.2        1,500   18.2        1,500   18.2        1,500   18.2        1,519   18.4        91.2        40        36.5       54.7
Scraper                        1        7.80       1,500   11.7        1,600   12.5        1,700   13.3        1,700   13.3        1,600   12.5        63.3         50       31.7       31.6
Wheel loader                   1        4.88       1,500    7.3        1,600    7.8        1,600    7.8        1,600    7.8        1,730    8.4        39.1         40       15.6       23.5
Agric. tractor                 2        1.23       2,200    2.7        2,200    2.7        2,200    2.7        2,200    2.7        2,200    2.7         13.5        50        6.8        6.7
Roller                         1        1.66       1,600    2.6        1,900    3.2        1,900    3.2        1,900    3.2        1,900    3.2        15.4         30        4.6       10.8
Tipper                         3        3.58       4,800   17.2        4,800   17.2        4,800   17.2        4,800   17.2        4,500   16.1         84.9        50       42.5       42.4
Water bowser                   3        0.10       4,800    0.5        4,800    0.5        4,800    0.5        4,800    0.5        4,800    0.5          2.5        50        1.3         1.2
Trailer                        2        0.14       2,200    0.3        2,200    0.3        2,200    0.3        2,200    0.3        2,200    0.3          1.5        60        0.9        0.6
Low-bed tractor                1       14.28         200    2.9          200    2.9          200    2.9          200    2.9           200    2.9        14.5        50        7.3        7.2
Concrete Mixer                 1        0.26         600    0.2          600    0.2          600    0.2          600    0.2           600    0.2         1.0        25        0.3         0.7
Fuel tanker                    1        3.58         600    2.1          600    2.2          600    2.2          600    2.2           600    2.2        10.9        50        5.5         5.4
4-wheel driver  1/             8        1.67       8,000   13.4        8,000   13.4        8,000   13.4        8,000   13.4        8,000   13.4         67.0        45        30.2       36.8
Pick-up  1/                    3        1.57       3,000    4.7        3,000    4.7        3,000    4.7        3,000    4.7        3,000      4.7       23.5        45        10.6       12.9
Generator 2.5 hVA   2/         1        0.97       1,000    1.0        1,000    1.0        1,00o    1.0        1,OO0    1.0         1,000    1.0         5.0        25         1.3        3,7
Pumps 1/                       7        0.63       7,000    4.4        7,000    4.4        7,000    4.4        7,000    4.4        7,000    4,4         22.0        15        3.3        18.7
Generator 2.5 hVA  31          5        2.00       2,500    5.0        5,000    5.0        5,000    5.0        5,000    5.0         5,000    5.0        25.0        25         6.3       18.7
105.0              107.6                108.4               108.4                107.5      536.9                 227.3      309.6
November 1. 1976                                                                                                                                                                                   x
1/ Road section and water supply section.
2/ Road section.
3/ Water supply section.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Cost of Plant and Equipment
(N'000)
% Foreign        Foreign         Local
No of Units       Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5         TOTAL         Exchange          Exchange       Curreney
Road and Dam Constructiot
Grader 150 hp                                 1              52          -           -           -           -            52              90               46.8           5.2
Dozer                                         1              80          -           -           -           -            80              90               72.0           8.0
Scraper 150 hp                                1              50          -           -           -           -            50              90               45.0           5.0
Wheel Loader                                  1              32          -           -           -           -            32              90               28.8           3.2
Agricultural Tractor                          2              14          -           -           -           -            14              90               12.6           1.4
Roller 8 tonnes                               1              28.2        -           -           -           -            28.2            90               25.4           2.8
Tipper 7 t                                    3              33          -           -           -           -            33              80               26.4           6.6
Water bower 4.5 m3                            3               7.5        -           -           -           -             7.5            90                6.8           0.7
Trailer 3.5 t                                 2               6          -           -           -           -             6              80                4.8           1.2
Low-bed tractor                               1              65          -           -           -           -            65              90               58.5           6.5
Concrete Mixer                                1               1          -           -           -           -             1              90                0.9           0.1
Fueld Tanker                                  1              18          -           -           -           -            18              90               16.2           1.8
4 Wheel Drive                                 6              36          -           -           36                       72              80               57.6          14.4
Pick-up                                       2               8          -           -            8          -            16              80               12.8           3.2
Generator                                     1               1          -           -           -           -             1              80                0.8           0.2
Water Pump                                    2               2          -           -           -           -             2              80                1.6           0.4
Hand Tools                                    1               3           1           1           1           1            7              50                3.5           3.5
Radio Equipments                              5               3          -           -           -           -             3              90                2.7           0.3
Spare Parts Stock                             -              50                                  -           -            50              90               45.0           5.0
Subtotal                                       489.7         1           1          45           1          537.7             87             468.2           69.5
Water Supplv Development
Well Sinking Tools                           18              13          -           -           -           -            13               60               7.8            5.2
Portable Hand Drill                           2               2          -           -           -           -             2               80               1.6           0.4
Drilling Tools                                -               3          -           -           -           -             3               80               2.4           0.6
Drainage Pumps                                5               7          -           -           -           -             7               80               5.6            1.4
Generator                                     5               8          -           -           -           -             8               80               6.4            1.6
Shallow Resisting Equipment                   1               4          -           -           -           -             4               85               3.4           0.6
Hand Pumps                                  630             310          80          80          80          80          630               70             441.0          189.0
Camping Gear                                  -               9          -           -           -           -             9               50               4.5            4.5
4 Wheel Drive                                 2              12          -           -           12          -            24               80              19.2            4.8
Pick-up                                       1               4          -           -            4          -             8               80               6.4            1.6
Lorry                                         1               8          -           -           -           -             8               80               6.4            1.6
Spare Parts Stock                             -               7          -           -           -           -             7               90               6.3            0.7
Subtotal                                       387          80          80          96          80          723               71             511.0          212.0
TOTAL                                                       876.7        81          81         141          81        1,260.7                            979.2          281.5
1/  Most equipment will be ordered in Year 0, and delivered
in Year 1; a few four-wheel drives might be purchased in
Year 0 rather than in Year 1.



NIGERI
PWATEaU STATE
1AFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
Housing & Workshop Requirement
(N '000)
Unit                                                                                                  7. Foreign   Foreign     Local
Units    Cost      Year 0        Year I       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       TOTAL      Exchbange    Exchanke    currenac
Workshop Requirements 4/
Workshop Building and Stom                 No.      30     (1) 30.0                                                               -            30.0        25           7.5        22.5
Fuel Storage                                         5.0       -             S      0    -             -            -             -             5.0        60           3.0         2.0
Overhead Levists                                     1.0        -            1.0         -             -            -             -             1.0        80           0.8         0.2
Lubricating Equipment                                1.0       -             l.o         -             -            -             -             1.0        80           0.8         0.2
Welding Equipment                                    1.0       -             1.0         -             -            -             -             1.0        80           0.8         0.2
Tyre Equipment                                       1.0       -             1.0                                    -             -             1.0        80           0.8         .0.2
Air Compressor                                       0.8                    0(.          -                                                      o -  0.8   80           0.6          0.2
Jacks                                                0.8                     0.8         -             -            -             _             0.8        80           0.6          0.2
Bunch Tools                                          4.0                     4.0          0.4           0.4          0.4           0.4          5.6        bO           4.5          1.1
Hand Tools                                           2.0       -             2.0          0.2           0.2          0.2           o.2          2.8        50           2.2          0.6
Mobile Workshop                                     14.0                    14.0         -             _                          -            14.0        60           S.4          5.6
Miscellaneous                                        2.0                     2.0          0.2           0.2           0.2          0.2          2.8         60          _.4          1.4
Subtotal                                                   30.0         32.6          0.8           0.8          0.8           0.8         65.8                    31.4         34.4
Housing and Other Buildings
Senior Staff House 1/                      No.      30     (6)180.0         -            -             -             -            -           180.0        30          54.0        126.0
Intermediate Staff Houses 2/                        21     (4) 84.0         -            -                          -             -            84.0        25          21.0         63.0
Junior HousesW3/                                    14    (10)140.0  (4)   56.0           -            -             _             _          196.0         25         49.0        147.0
Field Shelters                                       5          -     (3)   15.0                                      -                        15.0         20           3.0        12.0
Subtotal                                                  404.0         71.0                                                              475.0         27         127.0       348.0
TOTAL                                                       434.0      103.6           0.8          0.8           0.8           0.8       540.8                    158.4       3B2.4
1/ For internationally recruited staff, building supervisors.
2/ For Roads fore-men, workshop fore-men and assistant hydrologist.
3/ For Roads Headmen, Mechanics, Surveyor and Field superintendants.
4/ Workshop equipment be ordered in Year 0, but most kikely only installed
in Year 1.
Nov. 2, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 10
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Salaries and Overheads
(N'000)
Unit                                                                                          1  Foreign   Local
Units   Cost       Year 0      Year 1       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5       TOTAL  FE  Exchange  Costs
Chief Civil Engineer  Manyear  36.0    (1) 36.0   (1) 36.0   (1) 36.0   (1) 36.0   (1) 36.0                    -        180.0  75    135.0    45.0
Building Supervisor 1/   "          8.4     (2) 16.8   (2) 16.8   (2) 16.8   (2) 16.8   (2) 16.8   (2) 16.8    100.8  -                 -       100.8
Road and Dam Section
Road Engineer               "      32.0   (.5) 16.0   (1) 32.0   (1) 32.0   (1) 32.0   (1) 32.0  (.5) 16.0    160.0  75    120.0    40.0
Workshop Engineer                  28.0   (.5) 14.0   (1) 28.0   (1) 28.0   (1) 28.0   (1) 28.0  (.5) 14.0    140.0  75    105.0    35.0
Roads Foremen               "      4.9    (1)  4.9   (2)  9.8   (2)  9.8   (2)  9.8   (2)  9.8   (2)  9.8                53.9  -         -       53.9
Roads Headmen                       2.9    (1)  2.9   (3)  8.7   (4) 11.6   (4) 11.6   (4) 11.6   (4) 11.6               58.0  -         -       58.0
Plant Operators             "       1.3          -      (7)  9.1   (7)  9.1   (7)  9.1   (7)  9.1   (7)  9.1             45.5  -         -       45.5
Operator Assistants                 0.9          -      (7)  6.3   (7)  6.3   (7)  6.3   (7)  6.3   (7)  6.3             31.5  -         -       31.5
Drivers                     "       0.9    (3)  2.7  (12) 10.8  (17) 15.3  (17) 15.3  (17) 15.3  (17) 15.3               74.7  -         -       74.7
Journeymen                  "       0.8          -      (8)  6.4   (8)  6.4   (8)  6.4   (8)  6.4   (8)  6.4             32.0  -         -       32.0
Carpenters                          1.3          -      (4)  5.2   (2)  2.6   (2)  2.6   (2)  2.6   (2)  2.6             15.6  -         -       15.6
Workshop Foremen                    3.7          -      (1)  3.7   (1)  3.7   (1)  3.7   (1)  3.7   (1)  3.7             18.5  -         -       18.5
Clerks                              1.0    (1)  1.0   (2)  2.0   (2)  2.0   (2)  2.0   (2)  2.0   (2)  2.0               11.0  -         -       11.0
Storekeeper                 "       1.7          -      (1)  1.7   (1)  1.7   (1)  1.7   (1)  1.7   (1)  1.7              8.5  -         -        8.5
Mechanics                           2.9          -      (2)  5.8   (5) 14.5   (5) 14.5   (5) 14.5   (5) 14.5             63.8  -         -       63.8
Apprentice Mechanics        "       1.3          -      (2)  2.6   (5)  6.5   (5)  6.5   (5)  6.5   (5)  6.5             28.6  -         -       28.6
Surveyors                   "      2.9    (1)  2.9   (2)  5.8   (2)  5.8   (2)  5.8   (1)  2.9                -          23.2  -        -        23.2
Chainmen                            0.9          -      (4)  3.6   (4)  3.6   (4)  3.6   (2)  1.8             -         12.6  -         -       12.6
Laborers                            0.8          -    (15) 12.0  (20) 16.0  (20) 16.0  (20) 16.0  (20) 16.0              76.0  -        -        76.0
Subtotal                              97.2       206.3        227.7       227.7       223.0        152.3   1134.2  32    360.0   774.2
Water Supply Section
Hydrologist 3/              "      32.0          -      (1) 32.0   (1) 32.0   (1) 32.0   (1) 32.0             -        128.0  75       96.0    32.0
Assistant Hydrologist    "          6.0          -      (1)  6.0   (1)  6.0   (1)  6.0   (1)  6.0   (1)  6.0             30.0  -        -        30.0
Field Superintendents    "          2.9          -      (3)  8.7   (3)  8.7   (3)  8.7   (3)  8.7   (3)  8.7            43.5  -         -       43.5
Foremen                             1.7          -      (8) 30.6   (8) 30.6   (8) 30.6   (8) 30.6   (8) 30.6    153.0  -                -      153.0
Clerks                      "       1.0          -      (1)  1.0   (1)  1.0   (1)  1.0   (1)  1.0   (1)  1.0             5.0  -         -        5.0
Drivers                     "       0.9          -      (5)  4.5   (5)  4.5   (5)  4.5   (1)  4.5   (1)  4.5            22.5  -         -       22.5
Labor                       "       0.8          -    (54) 43.2  (54) 43.2  (54) 43.2  (54) 43.2  (54) 43.2    216.0  -                 -      216.0
Subtotal                               -         126.0       126.0        126.0       126.0         94.0    598.0  16        96.0   502.0
Allowances (75%) 2/                             23.4       153.2        169.3       169.3        165.8       162.2    843.2  15    126.5   716.7
TOTAL SALARIES                       120.6       485.5       523.0        523.0       514.8        408.5   2575.4  18    582.5  1992.9
NOVEMBER 1, 1976
1/ Later to cover senior staff in Engineering Department.
2/ To reflect normal and project incentive allowances, 75% of local salaries.
3/ Internationally recruited under Lofia project, but also to work on Ayangba project.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Materials
% Foreign        Foreign            Local
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       TOTAL        Exchange         Exchange          CurrencV
Roads Construction
Cement                                  4.0          4.5          4.5           4.5          4.5         22.0          30                6.6             15.4
Concrete pipes                         15.0         25.0         20.0          20.0         15.0         95.0           25              23.7             71.3
Timber for bridges                      6.0          8.0          8.0           8.0          8.0         38.0          -                -                38.0
Miscellaneous                           5.0          5.0           5.0          5.0          5.0         25.0           50              -                25.0
Subtotal                     30.0         42.5          37.5         37.5         32.5        180.0           17               30.3           149.7
Dam Construction
Miscellaneous                           1.0           1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0          5.0           50               2.5               2.5
Water Supply
Concrete                               33.0         33.0         30.1          30.1         30.1        156.3           25              39.1            117.2
TOTAL                                    64.0          76.5         68.6         68.6         63.6        341.3           -                71.9           269.4
July 14, 1976



NIGERIA
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ROAD CROSS SECTION
2.0          0.5        1.5              1.5        0.5           2.0Z
4%
1 IN 4
0 408.0
SPECIFICATIONS
CLEARING WIDTH    12m
SURFACING         ONLY WHERE DIRECTED BY THE ENGINEER AND
THEN FULL COMPACTED THICKNESS AS ORDERED
OVER CENTRAL 3M TAPERING TO ZERO 1 HICKNESS
2M EITHER SIDE OF CENTER LINE.
DEGREE OF CURVATURE   AS DICTATED BY TERRAIN.
TURN-OUT DRAINS       AS DIRECTED BY THE ENGINEER.
World Bank-16365






NIGERIA
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANGELAND DAM CROSS SECTION
3m     !
CUT-OFREEBOARD
1                                           3ank-16361
FILTERS ,j\
TOPSOIL STRIPPED                rxr\ 
\ UT-OFF TRENCH
World Bank-16366






lBRD 12373
r                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I?                     ~i- 4r .i s. 6 so  ,2  ! 41A1 AUGUST 1976
4 X | ,0 -X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  I G  E R                                                                                                                                                                                            A 
L~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                               ; ro                           N';';           k-                                                             '                        mWS   I2l;z 
ffi  /                    SuttWaX G;bern eho             \<_v  -3 -                                                                                                                                                               lAAittcpt
NX I CG   E  ROON  - ,,
qX  Wfors01e t q 4Cqwh by t1   8ta55   C  r   W     z           \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taenoerbyth fcro gvenmn
toeld 8a.*q@$lsr 8 1 n :t U : :; t . p 0 : ,, 5, I,0 '2 !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IU                                                                                                     5               20
teId&eIK.dbbeDDIaeehIn,bIn






ANNEX 7
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Services
General
1.        The project's main development activities are concentrated on
crop development and farm advisory services, livestock, forestry, and
fisheries development, through its Development Services Department, and on
road development and to a lesser extent water supply through its Engineering
Department. Commercial services (credit, input supply and marketing) to
support these development efforts are detailed in Annex 8. In addition the
following supporting services will supplement project development:
-    management and administration,
-    seed multiplication,
-    applied research,
-    training, and
-    evaluation.
These various supporting services are detailed below and in the supplements.
Management and Administration
2.        Successful project implementation would require effective management.
An efficient administration department is required to organize the cooperation
of the many people employed and the coordination of the deployed capital
equipment. Costs of management and administration are in Table 1.
3.        Project organization is explained in Chapter 6 of this report, and
as the project organization of this project is very similar to the Ayangba
project, details are in Supplement 10. Project organization is in Chart 16482
attached to this annex.
4.        Implementation steps undertaken in the start-up period will have a
major impact on ultimate project success. A start-up plan is presented in
Chart 16459 attached to this annex.
5.        A high level of management efficiency and technical competence would
be required to achieve project objectives as the project is both large and
complex. Project staff would be well-trained, highly competent and flexible,
to permit prompt project execution. Demand on existing manpower resources in
Nigeria is high and international recruitment will therefore be necessary.
A list of persons likely to be recruited internationally is in Table 2. It
should, however, be noted that this is only a best estimate at the time of



ANNEX 7
Page 2
appraisal and that if qualified Nigerians are found within the recruit-
ment time framework 1/, they would not be excluded to fill these positions.
Job descriptions for all major jobs are in Supplement 10.
6.        Certain internationally-recruited staff would work for two projects
since the size of the relevant component would not justify two expatriate
experts. There are:
-    Hydrological Engineer
-    Fishery Specialist
-    Forestry Specialist
-    Livestock Specialist
The time spent by these single experts would not necessarily be divided equally
between the projects but would depend on the work to be executed under the
respective projects. In order to avoid difficulties in contracts, the above
experts are recruited and paid under one project rather than being officially
shared and paid under two projects.
Seed Multiplication 2/
7.        As a system of seed production contracting already exists in the
area, the project would continue this practice, but the existing system would
be improved. Most of the seed production would be by contract farmers but
there would be a small project farm which would provide a nucleus for seed
production and allow for applied research (see below). Under the project an
area of 150 ha would be needed for project seed multiplication and research
(details are in Table 3). Seed purchases during the project period are
detailed in Table 4.
8.        A graduate trained 3/ in seed technology would head the project
seed multiplication program. His major task would be to ensure purity and
viability of seed for sale to farmers. There are two aspects to the seed
program: field production, and processing and storage. Field production
will be under the supervision of Agricultural Assistants (AAs) and Agri-
cultural Instructors (AIs). One AA and one AI would supervise seed pro-
duction on the project farm and one AA and two AIs would supervise 50 ha
of contract farms. An estimated 300 ha of contract farms will ultimately
be needed for the project. Processing and storage will be handled by a
seed technologist, experienced storekeepers, and laborers.
1/   See start-up plan for major appointments and Supplement 10, Appendix
5 for full details.
2/   For details see Supplement 6.
3/   Or to be trained early in Year 0 (three to six months).



ANNEX 7
Page 3
9.        First year requirements will have to be contracted out to
existing national and State institutions such as the Yandev Farm Center
and no problems are expected in obtaining the necessary quantities.
Research I/
10.       Except for research work carried out by faculties of agriculture
of Nigeria University, the major institutes involved in foodcrop research
in Nigeria are:
(a)  The Institute of Agricultural Research.  This institute is
attached to the Ahmadu Bello University and concentrates
mainly on crop research in the more northerly areas of
Nigeria.
(b)  Federal Department of Agricultural Research.  This is located
in Ibadan and its area of influence is mainly in the former
Western State. Its research activities cover cereals such
as maize and rice, foodcrops and grain legumes.
(c)  The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture.  This
institute is situated in Ibadan and is responsible for
research in the low altitute tropics throughout Africa.
It is sponsored by the Consultative Group of International
Agricultural Research.
11.       Because of the lack of properly organized applied research speci-
fically geared to the need of the project area, there is a need to establish
an applied research unit. This unit would be staffed by qualified and ex-
perienced staff, but would maintain close links with existing research
institutions and would limit its operations to applied research. Current
national trials undertaken in the project area would be incorporated in the
project research program and would receive improved supervision. Based on
experience with the existing trials, the project research officer would make
recommendations to the research institutions for their improvement. The
project would apply for participation in international trials such as those
carried out by IITA, as well as continue to participate in national trials.
12.       The project would concentrate on the following aspects taking into
account especially the distinct ecological conditions of the project areas
compared with those prevailing in the northern and southern areas of Nigeria:
(a)  variety trials;
(b)  soil fertility studies;
(c)  farming system studies;
(d)  mechanization;
(e)  minor crops (those not specifically part of the
develolpmenit proposals of the project); anid
1/   For details see Supplement 7.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(f) farm management studies (carried out by the project's
evaluation unit with the cooperation of interested
students of Nigerian universities).
13.       Project research would be under the responsibility of a Senior
Agronomist supported by a Soil Technologist and Agricultural Assistants
for soil research. Applied research would be undertaken both on the pro-
ject farm and on selected smallholdings. One farm manager would be responsi-
ble for the project farm, supervising both seed multiplication and applied
research work. The project would also participate in national and international
research schemes and would work closely with APMEPU's Chief Agronomist.
Training I/
14.       Training is of fundamental importance for the long-term success of
the development proposals incorporated under the project. An experienced
training officer would therefore need a team adequately backed by resources
to conduct a wide range of training under the project.
15.       Adequate training facilities for Agricultural Assistants and Agricul-
tural Superintendents exist already in Nigeria and diploma courses and certifi-
cate courses are given at various Federal and State institutions including the
Yandev Training Center. However, not enough training facilities exist for
Agricultural Instructors and under the project a training center would be
constructed which would accommodate 40 trainees. Initially, training at the
center would be focused mainly on Agricultural Instructors but later in
project life other specialized staff and advanced farmers would attend resi-
dential courses at the center. The training team would consist of three
instructors and two field workers and would be under the supervision of the
project's Chief Training Officer.
16.       In addition to the training center, the project will provide training
for staff and for farmers.
17.       Staff training will consist of the following elements:
(a) Senior staff training. Scholarships will be made available
for management training for those senior staff who would
benefit.
(b) Intermediate level training. Specialized training for project
staff will be provided following review with the relevant
department heads. Close liaison would be maintained with
other educational facilities to provide this training,
although short courses would be provided during inservice
training.
(c) Introductory training will be held periodically throughout
the years to provide new staff with the necessary background
information.
1/   For details see Supplement 8.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(d) Residential courses for extension workers. As explained
in para 15, Agricultural Instructors would be trained in the
project's training center.
(e) Refresher courses. These courses would mostly be technically
oriented and would update staff member's knowledge.
(f) Specialized training. Specific training programs in such
fields as credit, forestry and fisheries, would be undertaken
in conjunction with the relevant head of department. Project
training facilities would be available for this purpose.
18.       Farmers training would consist of the following components:
(a) Mobile units. Farmers training would be carried out mainly
at the village level by itinerant teams, consisting of a
training instructor and a driver equipped with a loud speaker
system and audio-visual aids.
(b)  Day courses.  One-day courses would also be employed from
Year 2. These courses would be held at Farmers Service Centers
but would also include visits to progressive farmers or demon-
stration plots.
(c) Residential training. From Year 4 it is envisaged that one-
week residential training would be provided to farmers in the
project's training center and provision for expanding
the training center has been made under the project.
(d) Use of mass media. The Training Officer would investigate
ways and means by which radio and newspapers could be used
to provide information to farmers in the project area.
(e) Training within the education system. Specific effort would
be made to ensure that primary and secondary teachers are
made fully aware of the purposes of the project.
(f) Home economics. Provision has been made for the inclusion
of an itinerant home economics team later in the project
period (Years 4 and 5).
Evaluation 1/
19.       The projects cover a large area with a substantial population.
Evaluating production increases would therefore be a formidable task and
would require a considerable resource input. The situation is aggravated
by the fact that the Lafia project area is populated by people of different
tribes with different cultural affinities.
1/   For details see Supplement 9.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
20.       Project field evaluation units would be under the overall direction
of APMEPU. Work plans would take into account APMEPU's experience so far with
the monitoring and evaluation of the three ongoing Northern Agricultural Devel-
opment Projects. The project's Chief Evaluation Officer would coordinate with
the Project Manager, to whom he is administratively responsible, determine
project priorities for evaluation, and establish a work plan in agreement
with APMEPU. The Field Evaluation Unit would be headed by a Chief Evaluation
Officer experienced in collecting and analyzing microeconomic data in a
smallholder environment. In addition there would be a Senior Evaluation
Officer, and supporting staff (two Evaluation Officers, Senior Enumerators
and Enumerators).
21.       The Chief Evaluation Officer would liaise closely with the Head of
the Development Services Department to determine how best to share the
responsibility for data collection. 1/ The evaluation program would start
early in 1977 when, following initial orientation, a listing of all villages
would be made. This would be followed by a baseline survey carried out over
five months between the end of 1977 and early 1978. Following this survey,
and over a full cropping cycle beginning in February/March 1978, a detailed
farm management study (mainline survey) would be instituted to record farmers'
activities, farm inputs and outputs, etc. Costs of evaluation are detailed
in Table 8.
1/   In Francophone West Africa extension staff have been used for data
collection but in English-speaking West Africa they have not,
although there is no inherent reason why this could not be done.



C C~~~C C0C0C    .,o  ooo'-.C-   -         0     C          OCOC                        -      -                                                       C o C C o0 Co-- -  -    -  -  --  -  -S
-  C-Coo  o,,,,C ~~~~~~~~~~~00  ~~~         5 5                                            5     5             ~-                               --  --o--  --  --i               --  --         o -                                 0     .-
Co      -00            -         C~~ -  --                                           -     --  --           --  I--         -      --          -
-                                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------                                                           C-O     -       -
~~S54.  0%-0rZ~                                                                                        1,                                                                                                                                                                     . .. .    . 
CO  0 0 0 0 0   0     ~               ~               ~               ~               ~               ------                                              ------                      --          -
oooooC  SCo  Co~~~~~~~~~.                                                             00    Co                                  000000~~~. ..    .   .   .   I   .   .-                                                           --       - 
-  S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                          






ANNEX 7
Table 2
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Likely to be Internationally Recruited
Project Manager
Head of Engineering Department
Head of Development Services Department
Head of Commercial Services Department
Chief Accountant
Roads Engineer
Hydrological Engineer 1/
Workshop Engineer
Farm Management Advisor
Chief Agronomist
Livestock Expert 1/
Training Officer
Evaluation Officer
(Forestry Expert) 2/
(Fishery Expert) 2/
1/ Also to work for the Ayangba Agricultural Development Project.
2/ Recruited under the Ayangba Project but also to advise and work
for the Lafia Project.



NIGERIA
FUTE&U STATE
LAFIA AGEICULTURAL DEWLOUIINT PROJSOT
Area Required for See.d Multinlicatign ad ReRearnh (ha)
Year 0       Year 1        Year 2                     Year 4      Y1r 5
SED MIJLTIPLICTIC#K
Rice                                                         4              4           10            10          8
Maize                                                        4              5           10            10          9
Melon                                                        2.25           3            3.75          5.25       5.25
Cowpeaa                                                      2              4s           7            10         10
Banniseed                                                    1              2                          4  1..
Sub-Total                                                 13             18           34            39         35
OTHER WLTIPLICATIONS
yaws                                                         2              2            2             2          2
Cassava                                                     20             10            !;                     .1
Sub-Total                                                  22             12            7             7          7
RESEARCH AND ElPERIMDITS                                      20             30           LO            LO         .22
MISCE[LANRES i/                                               30             30           44s           49         48
TOMU  AREA REUIRED                                            85             90          135           145        140
/ Details are in Supplment 8.
i/ Including accesa, fallowa etc.  Basis about 50% area under cultivation.
July 26, 1]976



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Purchases 3/
Year 0       Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5
Seed Requirements I/                     ----------------'000 kg------------------------------
Rice                                     45          57.5         57.5         137.5         150          115
Maize                                    32.5        42.5         62.5         120           130          104.5
Melon                                     0.38        1.13         1.5            1.88         2.63         2.63
Cowpeas                                   6.25       18.75        37.5           75.0        112.5        112.5
Benniseed                                 5           5           10            15            20           11
Seed Purchases          Price 2/         --------------------------N'000--------------------------------
Rice                   304             13,680       17,480  -   17,480        41,800        45,600       34,960
Maize                  135              4,388        5,738        8,438       16,200        17,550       14,108
Melon                  402                153          454          603           756        1,057        1,057
Cowpeas                250              1,562        4,688        9,375       18,750        28,125       28,125
Benniseed              386              1,930        1,930        3,860        5,790         7,720        4,246
Total                                  21,713       30,290       39,756       83,296      100,052        82,496
Incremental Costs                     21,713         8,577      9_,666        43,540       16,756          -
1/  See Supplement 8, Appendix 1.                                                                                      > 
2/  1.5 times financial market prices (1980 in constant 1976 terms or if not available 1936 prices).
See Annex 11.
3/  All needed seed valued; no differentiation made between contract farms and  project farm                           4 
as costs (not separately costed in prQject) have to be made for the latter proaucrLoL a!6O.



oC- <    O    o oJm nr i  , .    C    ?     - 1 3                                                                        -    0C0  CCC               C-Cr.C                               '3Ca'D          0 5    >    iT  q ' , sD    ?      S    Lj'  . ..C.. .    .   .>
-         ---C                                 C- -0C O -         ---                                    ---          -  C-CC-~ ----- -'C-CD -CD                                                   CDC
----------                                    -  -C  -                                                                       C-CD--0C-CC-C -C--C"C-C                                                    DI
0CC t * PC D  o                              - -  -'          =              - - -r -o - --                                                                       = - ----                                                                              -
" r " CO r X e a X    X    2             CC   a           H                  C '0 D4C Cf                                                                                                             C"Cf DCDCC 1     Ct<               c
0    0 ao.CC a  a,-,    CC-  0                                    F               C           CD        C                O-
Or     aD        CD                 000 -D ff                               CD r--~-                                                      -0      C
CDHCDIHHCDCCC"CD  <C.  C"                           0    CDCDI                           00      -C                                                                    CC0 ~ Do               0    0     0
CDH        CDD   = .r D                                      CD        'C
Cn                                       O >       o                             e r r f ooror D    r  eF ?.  .-  . . . . . .  . .                   o
CD '10  aD DC" CD< CD
CO-C"      OCD'DI.O P-
DD eaap
CC0 D         D                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                CD"CCCCC |         M|v g|  Mro P t > < l  o vlo      <|
Ma          -C                                        N0C, r0C                                  '0 -rC O0o N-r>  r    r   t o  -Cc rO00                                        C O0C   C r                     a' 000                 0             0000N
P.       CC                        10C                                      I N       I                                                                    ;~----                                                                                                                   IC  I  _C  It
CDI'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "Co    J     Eo         EDooNo  De  nro                  l       .    voNnotme              no NC          
CD ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~|O                S         |orC                     |D CM  -C/      O a'0 C0  C"OoD X DO-<CD N-o0o  J_                     a' CCrC     oO     Jc OaOHOOOHo rOoCC"COr 0e OaCO                                 08      0    000 r                 |
I~~                                                   ~~~~~~ s  D O      Oo N w W r  DOONc  Dc  nt1>sNN1'(IOo                                         O0;      hrNrc  oNO FC~ ---- --- - - --  ;- C'-'-        *--Ce                       , oNO 



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LMFIA AGRICULTURAL DPATELO fNlT PROJECT
Costs of Research
Unit                                                                                                                 Foin x~                  Local
Costs           Year 0        Year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5       Total                      Am ont        Costs
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
Houses
Senior Houses  i/                 30.0               _      (1)  30.0             -              -             -              -          30.0          30           9.0          21.0
Intermediate Houses  4           21.0                _      (3)  21.0                                                                    21.0          25           5.3          15.7
Traditional Houses                 4.0               _      (2)   8.0                                                                      .0          10           0.8           7.2
Subtotal                                        -           59.0                                                                   59.0                      15.1          43.9
Vehicles
Four-Wheel Drive                   6.o               -      (2)   1.2             -              -      (2)   1.2             -           2.4          go           1.9           0.5
Pick-Ups                           4.o               -      (i                                         (1)0 (i)   4.0                     8.0 _0                    6.4           1.6
Motorcyclee  3                     0.8             ---      (2)   o.6             ---                                                     i.6          6o           1.0           o.6
Subtotal                                        -            6.8             -             -            5.2             _          12.0                       9.3            2.7
Equipment
Soil Laboratory Equipment /  lup sum                 -             5.0                                                -                   5.0          Bo           4.o           1.0
Sundry Equipment                lusp sum             -             3.0           0.3           0.3            0.3           0.3           4.2          50           2.1           2.1
Typewriter                         0.5                -     (1)   0.5             -              -             -              -           0.5          6o           0.3           0.2
Calculator                         0.4               -      (4)   1.6                                                                     1 -  _  -  1.6  60        1.0           o.6
Furniture  i/                     0.9                -      (5s   4.o            _               -             -              -           4.o          4o           1.6           2.4
Subtotal                                        -           14.1           0.3            0.3           0.3            0.3         15.3                       9.0            6.3
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                             -           79.9           0.3            0.3           5.5            0.3         86.3                      33.4          52.9
B.  RECURRENT COSTS
Staff Salarieo
Senior Agricultural Officer       6.o                -      01)   5.0    (1)   6.o    (1)   6.o    (1)   6.0    (i)   6.o                30.0          -             -           30.0
Agriclltoral Superintendant (   2.9                  -      (2)   s.8    (2)   5.8    (2)   5.8    (2)   5.8    (2)   5.8                29.0          -             -           29.0
tAn                                1.7               -      (2)   3.1.    (2)   q5.4    (2)   3.4    (2)   3.4    (2)   3.4.             17.0          --                        17.0
Soil Technologiot                  3.7               -      (1)   3.7    (1)   3.7    (1)   5.7    (1)   3.7    (1)   3.7                18.5          _             -           18.5
Secretary                          1.7               -      (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7                 8.5          _             -            8.5
Clerk                              1.0               -      (1)   1.o    (1)   1.0    (1)   1.0    (1)   1.0    (1)   1.3                 1.0                 -      _            5.0
Deivers                            0.9                -     (3)   2.7    (3)   2.7    (3)   2.7    (3)   2.7    (3)   2.7                13.5                        -           13.5
Laborers  9J                      0.8                -      (4)   3.2    (4)   3.2    (4)   3.2    (L)   3.2    (4)   3.2                i6.o                        -           16.0
Subtotal                                        -           27.5          27.5           27.5          27.5           27.E        137.5                        -          137.5
Allowances  9/ at  753                          -           20.6          2o.6           20.6          20.6           20.6        103.0           15         15.5           87.5
Total Salaries                                              48.i          48.1           48.i          43.1           48.1        240.5                      15.5         225.0
Vehicle Operating
Four-Wheel Drive                  2.1                -      ;2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2           2)   4.2          21.0          45          9.5           11.5
Pick-Ups                           1.9                             1.8    (1)   1.8       1) i         (1)   L.i    (1)   1.8             9.0          45          4.1            4.9
Subtotal                                                     6. 0          6.o            6.0           6.0            6.o         30.0                      13 6          16.4
General Services
Conferences  12/              lump sum               -             5.O           5.C          10.0           10.0          10.0          4o.o                        -           4o.o
TOTAL PECURRENT                                 -           59.1           59.1          64.1          64.1           64.1        310.5                      29.1          281.4
TOTAL COSTS                                     -          239.0           59.4          64.4          69.6           64.4        396.8                      62.5          334.3
i/   For SAO.
/    Por ASs and Soil Tecsnologist.
3/  FPor  Ai.
Project sill make loans to AAs to purchase motorcycles; initial purchases costed to build up revolving fund.
For a simple testing only, as existing laboratories would be used for major tests.
6    Three senior staff nembers plus 60% to reflect other staff needs.
O one to supervise field trials; one to supervise trials on project fam.
j/   To work on research plots on project farm.
91   For normal civil service and additional project incentive allowances; 75% of local salaries.
12/  To travel to research institutes and organize conferences in the project areas.



LAflA AGRICULTURAL DI6LOIT PICT
Costs of Trainimc
(Nais '000)
Costs           Year 0         Yesr 1        Y.s 2          Year            a Y           e  a                r S  Totul  P        xt             Cs
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Senior Houses                    30.0        (1)  30,0                                '         -                                        30.0           30          9.0          21.0
Int.r-edist  H-ouses  J          21.0        (1)  21.0    (1)  21.0               _              -             -                         5 20          25          10.5          41.5
Juoior Houses  2/                14.0                -      (3)  42.0    (1)  14.0              -                      -                 56.             5         14.0           42.0
Trsditio2Al Houses H-             4.0                -      (6)  24.o            _               -     (1)   4.0            _            28.0           10          2.8          25.2
Subtotal                                     51.0          87.0           14.0             -            4.0             _         i56.o                      36.3          119.7
Euil iings
Classrooms                        5.0                -      (2)  10.0             _                    (2)  10.0              -          20.0           30          6.o           14.0
Laboratory                       10.0                -      (1)  10.0             -              -             -              -          10.0           30          3.0            7.0
Wor-shop                         10.0                _      (1)  10.0             -              -             -              -          10.0           30          3.0            7.0
Diniog Ro/ K4itohsa              13.0                -      (1)  13.0             -              -             -              -          13.0           30          3.9            9.1
Dormitorie                        7.5                -      (2)  15.0             -              -      (2)  15.0             _          30.0           30          9.0           21.0
Toilet Fsiliti-s                  2.0                -      (1)   2.0             _              _     (1)  .2.0              -           4.o           30          1.2            2.8
Ror-atioa Hoa.                    8.0               _       (1)   8.0             -            _               _                          8.0           30          2.4            5.6
Subtota1                                       -            68.o            -              -           27.0             _           93.0                     28.5           66.5
Vehicles
Four- 1heel Drive                 6.0        (2)  12.0    (2)  12.0               _      (2)  12.0    (2)  12.0               _          48.0           80         38.4           9.6
Suatio- Wagon                     5.0                -      (2)  10.0             _             _      (2)  10.0              _          20.0          80          16.o           4.0
Training Wagon .                  8.0                _      (2)  i6.o             _              -     (3)  24.0              -          4o.0           80         32.0           8.0
Pe-sooal Corier                   6.5                _             -      (2)  13.0             -              -      (2)  13.0          26.0           80         20.8           5.2
Motorcyoles 5/                    0.8               _       (2)   1.6             _            _       (i)   0.8            _             2.4          60           1.4           1.0
Subtotal                                     12.0           39.6          13.0           12.0          46.8           13.0        136.4                     108.6           27.8
Ciancrooma " nd laboratory        3.0                -      (3)   9.0             -              -     (2)   6.o              -          15.0          60           9.0           6.o
titohen  nod iltenils            4.5                -      (i)   4.5             _              -             -              .           4.5          60           2.7            1.8
Hedo cod Bedding                  0.4                     (40)  16.o              -             -    (4b)  16.o               -          32.0          20           6.4          25.6
Typerit-rn                        0.5                -      (5)   2.5             -                                                       2.5          6o           1.5            1.0
Calculotors                       0.4                -      (3)   1.2             -                                                       1.2          6o           0.7           0.5
orfine Furaitu-r   %              0.3                -      (6)   4.8             _      -                     - _                        4.8          40           1.9           2.9
Audio/Vlauni  Equip-et        loCD sun              _             5.0            1.0                          5.0 _                      15.0          70          10.5           4.5
Subtotal                                       -           43.0            5.0             -           27.0             -          75.0                      32.7           42.3
SohoIa-hips
Po-tgradunte Oote-al              5.1                -      (3)  15.0    (3)  15.0    (3)  15.0    (3)  15.0                 _           6o.o         100         6o.o              -
loarraci Spoioali-od              1.0              _        (6)   6.o    (6)   6.o   (12)  12.0   (12)  12.0                 -           36.0          -                         5 _6.0
Subtotal                                      _            21.0           21.0           27.0          27.0             -          960                       60.0           36.0
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                          63.0         258.6           53.0           39.0         131.3           13.0        558.4                     266.           292.3
B.  RECURRENT COSTS
stoff Salaries
Chief Trainiag oCficer           52.0        (1)  32.0    (1)  32.0    (1)  52.0    (1)  32.0    (1)  32.0                   _          160.o          75        120.0           40.0
Agrioolt-ral OfCMor  5/           4.9        (1)   4.9    (2)   9.8    (2)   9.8    (2)   9.8    (2)   9.8    (2)   9.8                  53.9          -             -           53.9
lstruotors                       2.2                -      (3)   6.6    (3)   6.6    (3)   6.6    (3)   6.6    (3)   6.6                33.0          -            -            33.0
Field Workers  (AIa)              1.3                -      (2)   2.6    (2)   2.6    (2)   2.6    (2)   2.6    (2)   2.6                13.0          -             -           13.0
Farmer Training (AA.)             1.7                      (2)   3.4    (2)   3.4    (2)   3.4    (2)   3.4    (2)   3.4                 17.0          -            -            17.0
Home Eo.no..i     (AA Loo1)       1.7                --                           -             -      (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7            3.4           -            -3.4
Day Courses  (AS)   5/            2.9                _             _      (1)   2.9    (1)   2.9    (1)   2.9    (1)   2.9               ii.6          -            -            11.6
s-oret ri-s                       1.7        (2)   3.4    (3)   5.1    (3)   5.1    (3)   5.1    (3)   5.1    (3)   5.1                 28.9           -            -           28.9
Typiots                           0.9                -      (2)   1.8    (2)   1.8    (2)   1.8    (2)   1.6    (2)   1.8                9.0           -            -             9.0
Clerks                            1.,                _      (1)   1.0    (I)   1.0    (1)   1.0    (I)   1.0    (1)   1.0                5.0           _            -             5.0
Messengers                        0.                        (2)   1.6    (2)   1.6    (2)   i.6    (2)   1.6    (2)   1.6                d.o           -            -             8.0
Dlaors                            0 9        (2)   1.3    (8)   7.2   (10)   9.0   (10)   9.0   (11)   9.9   (11)   9.9                 46.8           -            -            46.8
Cooks                             1.0                -      '2)       2.0   2    2.0    (2    2.0    (2)   2.0    (2)   2.0             10.0           _            _            10.0
Lsbor-rs                          0.8            _          (2)   1.6    (2)   1.6       2     1.6    (2)   1.6    (2)   1.6             8.o           _            -             8.0
Subtotal                                     42.1          74.7           79.4          79.4           82.0          50.0        407.6                     120.0          287.6
Alloaoce   I!   t 75%                         7.6          3&20           35.6          35.6           37 5          37.5        la8             15         27.0          157.9
Total salaries                               49.7         106.7          110.0         115.0         119.5           87.5        593.4                     147.9         445.8
F .-Wbeel Drive                   2.1        (2)   4.2    (4)   8.4    (4)   8.4    (4)   8.4    (4)   8.4    (4)   8.4                 46.2          4s         20.8           25.4
'atign -Ag00                     2.1                -     (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2                21.0          45           9.5          11.5
Tr-along WAgoo                    2.1                .      (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (2)   4.2    (53   6.3    (3)   6.3               25.2           45         11.3          13.9
Porooosel Carriers                7.7              _              _       (2)   6.o    (2)   6.o    (2)    6.o    (2)   6.o             24.0          45          10i8          13.2
Total 21hi010 -por-tiag                             4.2          16.8          22.8           22.8          24.9           24.9        116.4                      52.4          64.o
General Ser-i-cs
Student Pay-ents  %/              0.0 6                   (40)  24.0   (40)  24.0   (40)  24.0   (4o)  24.0   (40)  24.0               120.0          -             -          120.0
Ftdio Pr-gra-u                .u=p 300               -            2.0           2.0            2.0           2.0           2.0          10.0          -             -           10.0
Othse Training Prograsu       lUnn  tom             1.0           2.0          3.0             3.0           3.0            3.0         15.0          _           _             15.0
SuItntal                                      1.0          28.0           29.0          29.0          29.0           29.0        i45.0                        -          145.0
TOTAL RFBCOJRNT CCSTS                        54.9         151.5          166.8         i66.8         17}.4          141.4        %,5.                      200-3         654.5
GRAND TOTAL                                 117.9         4101          213.8          206.8            2           154.4      1.413.2                    466.4          o46.8
I/ Chief Traitiog ffi-er.
It-rs -nO AS.
3/  TnstrucorAnAB
5/ As, Cooks sd Az.s
S/  Iof uding training equip-st.
0/  The proj,e,t vil prortdr lusts to OHs for purohase of cotoropeles;  initial p-rnh.s..  costed to build Up re-oloing fusd
Foor senior staff sen Iers plus 538 for supporting staff.
Oar to suternise training Costr; one to euporni-e other training actisities.
D lay coures vill bho glans by  at.sioa staff; AS resPonsible fur design sad organnsakioa
N. osoal oioil  erei,  -llo -sseus  d additional proSJ-t in-satirs  tllo intes ostiated st 75% of  -oomi sl.nins.
F-/ orty-five seeks: pnytset at 1.75/day of siohS   1.40 retsiosd for subsist..ee costs:  45 . 7 . 1.75 - 551.25 r-oded to 600.



. r  |   D O iN                                                          -                       N            C     |HN1
ROil                  RC aI RSS                                                                I.,   ,   , -      S
Io             00,  lOO                                           O                                                          NClNC  K  lo  v   eNSg        lo s   x go  1N. I
a NI   C                                                   I1  OC                   N   *1l I~                                 N      N                   -   C11Q<<QS'
1 ~ ~~~~~~~~ CO I                                        N           -                          NCI                              N "w9glg e1s U<    
NC, CCCC           0     ,          O<O   N                       -           CC1<,=     <M 
N ~ ~~~~~~~~      ~~ CO   I  N  ON   C  N CC    N= Ni  N         *      C N O N            CI      OI           COI         C|e  =A 
CCNI   N  C   I  N                 N   C=    0           CNNNirONNoS   1  010                      O -l I Cc 1
oo __N0S~~~~~~~-   - - l 
iI ~ ~     ~        ~      ~       ~       N     NR -                      N    OC  'CNNNCNNNO    >        S0      N                             eO  
NI~~~~~ ~ ~~~                                ~~~~~~~ N  *1  ul *
-|:- ~    ~ ~ ~ 0                                              NNN.NC   N  N             C C                                              S- 
~~~~C I                                  CNIC                   8                              _ -1m         Wn            e <                      
8\ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       CO N N O  Co 8                   N      CO   N   Cn <            lu 1  ls>3a4  v g ; =                   
ii                           401                   N-I Il COo                                                                             N11tl 11iD|I






*
00                                00                                                 *        0>                      00
-        000
03                                            00         00                     0>                                     05
0 3 -
0                                                        o8         00                                                             3
0 3
*
*          *        00
83
00        0>>         00          00
030                                                           I
*
00       0*0                                   I
03                                00                                     I
30                               00                                                 I
*
0  -'      -           0          0 0
0         -           0           3
3           0           0                                     I
30
0   
0                                Om
-4
*           *
00                                   00
33                       0
I                                  0           0
*1
I          000
0000                                                                        I
0 
00 
I
0                                                                                                                           30
03






69tP91H0.. PHO-M-1-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Md3d
I~~~~~~~~~~~~"-d
-- - - - - - - - - -                .                      - - - - -               - -       - - - - --------k--                            P 4!o             0O Ofl,            UO
-- - - - - - --- -.                                                                                                          -- -- -- -
------  ---------d---------------- -oO.aISJ
-------    ---------    ---- ----    -----    ---------- ---                       ---------               --   .....             ..                       ------------   ---- --0---                                          ,d0,    !100 _ _      U03
-- - - - - - - -- -                  - -      - - -d .. . . . . . . . .                                    . . . ..-..S   60   A-01S
---- ---   -- ---- -              - --- ---             O--        - - - - - -                  -     - -             n    H     -     -!.A   u5.sogl
SDNiO1iing
Now =   ---    --------  ------    ------------------------------                                      ------- ddnS ---                     -------------------------------- AI-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d-000,10
------    --------------------                ---------              ---------                -------   ~35/d  -- - - - - -- - -                                - - - -- - - -                          -          P-S
-- -- - -- - -- --                    -- -           --- -     - - - - -- -                     3 d -            ------ ----- ------ ----- ----- 1 0                                            -6 1 1
--- --   --- ---   - --- --- --- --- --d--                  --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --                                           SH-       0035A       l
-- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- -                      --          -         -0--- - - --                       - -                            u,tj.Idgi5 ~        d
DLII-dOIN Ou,as~~IoH -rOdOS
-- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -   - - -- -       -- - - -- - -- - ----                                   - -- - -- - -l,d                        S    -          -- - -- -                       -- - -- -              - -- - -
m  ---    --------- ---------    ----- --------------                      ------           031d ---          -----------                                                                          P1
---    ------- m- ------ m-m   -  -------   ----- ---m-----                       .3od...                         ------s--               ----0--I.....
-N                                                AM31ONV5 O!SS0Hon
..........  ---    --------       ----------d ----S----   ------OU,U,01
------ --  -- ---  E)qj   -- ---M-- ---M-                       -----             Idimf luOH           -IUO     AIddI      S
---- ---   ---- -- M   --- ----DS          _       ~- -----           m-    ---- ---- ----                         o-       5   M 'H3
-   --- ---- ---- --                    d'DS     .--- -- --                                  B                 0-  A         NA     I IOd I-1VA
--          - -          - -- -li4-                   -- - -- - --                     0                       l6 4   6uI-     1S1'   6ulOo    O d
DNdV   QVAdHE SLH  1VW0S
.. . . . - - - - -  -- - - - . . . . .   ..          -    - - - - - - -                    - --            - - - - - -                  - - ---P-H-- - - - - --                                                          d                  - - -           - - --               - - - -                -     n              d
--- -- ---  - --- --  -- -   -- --          -- --- -                --- -- -              ---       --     --- -- --- -d                       --- -- ---                -- -- ---10---   A A                           On -             - N
---   -- -----  .... ...... ..... .....      ...... ....                   ---           - ----- --d -0 ----- ----- ------ -----   A. - S                                                              U. 6'S
-------    - --- I---- --------   --------              ------- -- d --                      -- ----   --- ------   1j0S    6                                               OS-   O
--   --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --                     S     --        --- -- --- -- I NH                           VHI . - 1S'I H                l3     r    N       
--                                                                  OS/DIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------- ~P
305/-000NnH11Vi3 103F55 d 
S.C L -~~~~~. -   -----  S.C 1                                            -                                                                        C.C I                                                                    5161~~~~~~~~mod  -   ------Ds                                       ---N---------IlsHOA  IHOd HO  '
-I -____ON___NVN__OO                                                                                        00V                 
iO~~~~rO~~~id  1N3V.IdO1                     ~             ~              no   -                 ------ 1G    ---------OSI--f-------- -ildVIfi,p.1






ANNEX 8
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Development
A. General
1.        During project development, substantial quantities of crop
inputs will be required and marketable surpluses generated. For the former,
project success will depend on creating a structure which will remain as a
permanent and viable unit on completion of the development phase while
attention to crop marketing must assure farmers of secure outlets for their
crops in the face of the substantial increases in marketable surplus projected
in Supplement 2. This aspect of development would be the responsibility of
a Commercial Services Department in each project. The Commercial Services
Department is divided into four divisions: Credit Division; Input Supply
Division; Marketing Advisory Service; and Produce Inspection Division.
B. Input Development
2.        Existing Services.  All fertilizers consumed in Nigeria are imported
with the exception of some supplies of superphosphate from a recently opened
plant in Kaduna (using rock imported from Togo); projected supply from the
plant is expected to reach 40,000 tons per annum. A nitrogen plant is also
proposed in the Third Five-Year Development Plan and could begin operations
during project implementation.
3.        Imported fertilizer procurement has been a State Government responsi-
bility and the heavily subsidized official selling prices have varied between
States. Procurement has been sporadic and well short of demand and this, to-
gether with price differentials between States, has led to an active black
market trade and undesirable movement of fertilizers across State boundaries.
All of these problems have been under review by FMG and proposals are being
considered for central procurement by a single Federal agency and distribution
at uniform sale prices throughout Nigeria. At present State requirements are
being met from Federal and State sources. A recent press announcement indicates
that the following sale prices will be applied: urea, N 2.00 per bag; sulphate
of ammonia, N 1.00 per bag; single superphosphate, N 1.50 per bag; and compound
fertilizers, N 2.00 per bag. Based on this publication a sale price of N 1.50
per bag has been assumed for project fertilizers; compared with actual delivered
prices, including storage and handling, this represents a subsidy level of around
80% in the central projects zone.
4.        Fertilizer consumption data are inadequate and store records are
confused by Government seed farm consumption, inter-store transfers within
and outside the areas, and delivery dates which are not easily related to a



ANNEX 8
Page 2
single cropping season.  Government has experienced severe problems both
in timely procurement, particularly during and since the oil crisis of
1974, and in transport bottlenecks.  Official consumption in either pro-
ject area has not exceeded 180 tons (all types) during the last three
years; however, agricultural authorities indicated that far more would
have been sold, if it had been available. In contrast to fertilizers, all
other agricultural chemicals are procured, distributed and sold through
the private sector although small quantities are purchased by Government
for redistribution or use in seed multiplication and demonstration plots.
Total consumption in the project area is unknown.
5.        Until the Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB) was established in
1973, there was no specific financial institution in the agricultural
sector apart from the rather selective advances that were at one time
available to cooperative members. Short-term financial requirements have
to be met from other sources, usually on terms and conditions that fully
reflect both the risk and the limited choice of sources. The value of
seasonal credit extended in this way is not known but quite an important
proportion is found at family level, while the Tiv have a fairly highly
developed traditional communal credit system.
6.        An NAB onlending scheme has recently been launched in the Ayangba
area and is supervised by agricultural and cooperative staff. A flat interest
rate of 5% is charged but onlending is restricted to 7% with liability resting
with the intermediary. This could well result in the consequent credit
operation being unviable because of inadequate spread to cover cost of money,
risks and costs of lending and recovery. This position is exacerbated when
credit is granted for highly subsidized articles such as fertilizer. At
current fertilizer prices and a 2% interest spread it would take a 33,000
bag turnover to achieve N 1000 revenue, from which provision for bad debts
and reserves would have to be deducted before anything could be made available
against administrative costs. An NAB onlending scheme has also been proposed
for Plateau State; but proposals to create a credit unit in MANR that would
ultimately become a cooperative bank have only reached the stage of a draft
project document for technical assistance by UNDP.
7.        Development Proposals.  Present Government policy on fertilizer
subsidies does not provide any incentive for private input trading (except
on the black market) but in the long term, private sector participation
must be expected and permitted. 1/ Few advanced farming systems have the
flexibility for seasonal changes from intensive to extensive production
methods, and technical improvement at farm level could rapidly reach a
1/   Although not now scheduled, the projects Commercial Services Depart-
ment is designed to operate in such a way that in the future it
can be detached (except for Produce Inspection Division) from the
project organization and be transformed into a separate, commercially
viable legal entity (like the Farmers Finance Companies in the Upper
Region Agricultural Development Project in Ghana and the Agricultural
Development Projects in Sierra Leone).



ANNEX 8
Page 3
point beyond which farmers would be unwilling to advance unless backed by
a reliable and regular supply of farm inputs; this situation is likely to
occur only against the background of an active and competitive private
trading network.
8.        Commercial development must therefore be compatible with this
requirement and even Government inspired networks must be structured
according to commercial principles if future transfer to the private sector
is to occur. These considerations have determined the input development
structure proposed under these project.
9.        Farmers Service Centers.  Crop inputs would be supplied to farmers
through a network of 20 Farmers Service Centers (FSC) located to achieve a
suitable balance between throughput and access. The centers would be located
where possible at principal towns already serving as important assembly points
for the farming community. Suggested locations are shown on the project
map and Table 1. On average each center would serve a hinterland of up to
15 km radius, a farming population of between 3,000 farm families, 1/ and at
full development would have an annual fertilizer throughput of around 650
tons. At this level, and with a 15% mark-up on the pre-store projected price
of imported fertilizer, the net revenue on turnover would amount to around
N 15,000 per center per annum.
10.       The basic FSC would consist of a covered store designed on a module
basis to permit economy in initial construction and to allow expansion on the
basis of throughput and demand.2 A standard 400-ton module has been used.
Assuming 4 m eave height, 250 m  floor area would provide enough space to    2
allow access to four separate stacks. Roof extension to provide further 60 m
covered space would permit loading and unloading to take place in all weathers.
Basic FSC would consist of a single module, with the required storage volume
based on a turnover factor of about two. 2/
11.       Sales Organization.  Input sales and delivery would be organized
and promoted by salesmen. 3/ A Sales Supervisor would be appointed for every
five FSCs 4/ and would be responsible for supervising sales operations and
1/   Lafia an estimated 60,000 farm families and 20 FSC.
2/   Not exactly two as seasonal fertilizer use will not be equal in early and
late season.
3/   As and when the Commercial Services Department becomes a separate com-
mercial entity, salesmen could be paid incentive salaries (linked to
sales and credit performance).
4/   As for agricultural extension where an Agricultural Superintendent
oversees five FSCs, one Sales Supervisor oversees five FSCs. These
supervision functions under the project are combined in Development
Centers (DC), each of which supervises and coordinates operation of
five FSCs.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
ensuring thlat accurate and up-to-date store records, trading accounts and
movement schedules were maintained at each FSC. Deployment of sales staff
would directly correspond with that of the general extension services with
whom close liaison would be maintained concerning group development and
forward estimates of demand.
12.       Specific attention and incentives would be given to ensure that
administrative overhead is kept to a minimum. In a scattered and small-
scale farming situation this would depend critically on achieving a sound
grouping structure at farm level so that supplies can be retailed in bulk.
Responsibility for group formation would rest primarily with the general
extension service and has been discussed in Supplement 3; this, however,
would need to be supported by suitable incentives so that farmers can
receive tangible benefits from group formation.
13.       Ideally these incentives would be provided in the form of dis-
counts for bulk purchases of inputs which reflect administrative savings
over single bag trading, although with Government's present fixed sale price
policy, this is not possible. However, this would be assessed annually by
project management and introduced as soon as feasible. 1/ Opportunities exist,
however, for providing bonus bags (say 10%) for purchase on a full lorry load
basis (5 to 7 tons) and for arranging delivery for purchase of full lorry
loads to villages or nearest accessible point on motorable roads. 2/ In
conjunction with other project managers, project management would continually
liaise with Government on the effects and implications of fertilizer price
policy and reassess project policy accordingly. The Bank would be kept informed
of any changes in this field. Actual incentive policy to be used would be
coordinated between the projects and agreed with the Bank.
14.       Credit.  At present levels of fertilizer subsidy there are no firm
grounds for supposing that seasonal credit would be a prerequisite to achieving
anticipated adoption rates for improved practices; indeed, the greatest con-
straint on widespread use of fertilizer is lack of availability, with farmers
paying up to six times the official prices in order to secure supplies.
Although seasonal cash problems undoubtedly exist, the indications are that
this is at least as attributable to bad housekeeping as to other reasons, a
situation that is not going to be improved by increasing credit availability
but probably aggravated. Indeed, by very circumstances, this class of borrower
tends to be an avid credit seeker and poor repayer and a source of potentially
1/   This clearly needs to be coordinated with the other agricultural
projects in Nigeria.
2/   The incentive in this case would be that a full lorryload would be
delivered free, while any other delivery would be at least at full
cost. Thus sales from a truck in a village would be at say N 1.50/bag
plus transport costs; sales at FSC would be at N 1.50/bag (but farmers
would have to arrange transport) and sale of 5 to 7 tons delivered at
site would be based on N 1.50/bag.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
bad business that is best avoided if other borrowers are not to be penalized.
Sales would, therefore, be basic cash but normal trading facility would be
made for deferred payment against a 10% mark-up for larger group orders.
Deferred payment arrangements would be strictly controlled and subject to
reference from the local authorities extension staff.
15.       Conventional credit operations would be restricted to medium
(2-3 years) and long term (5 years) requirements and would be principally
linked to progressive farmers and mangement groups wishing to undertake
advanced farm development backed by financial analyses of the Farm Advisory
Service. Components would include land clearing and scrubbing, ULV sprayers,
intermediate technology equipment, tractors and implements, plus credit for
storage improvement; the latter is discussed in Section C of this annex.
16.       As seasonal credit is not likely to be required to a large extent,
credit staff would not be deployed at FSC level. Credit offices would be
appointed at Development Centers (DC). Staff at the FSC level would not
make any credit decisions but would be involved in the administrative work
on the basis of standard forms only. When project activities increase over
time more Credit Assistants would be appointed at DC level. Credit Assistants
would make a fixed number of visits (say one day a week for each FSC) to FSCs.
The project credit system would be designed in such a way as to provide seasonal
credit or cash sales for fertilizer. However, the seasonal credit option would
remain inoperative except for group sales, for the time being, until such time
as actual prices for fertilizer make seasonal credit necessary again.
17.       Credit and farm input delivery operations would be kept separated.
For that reason two separate divisions are proposed in the Commercial Services
Department, but accounts would also be kept separate. There would be a trading
account, used for purchase of all farm inputs and replenished immediately either
with cash obtained from sales, reimbursement for subsidies, or from the credit
fund. There would also be a credit account which credit operations would
go through.
18.       Seasonal input requirements for the project and costs are detailed
in Tables 2 and 3, and physical requirements for medium and long term credit
and costings are in Tables 4 and 5.
C. Market Development
19.       The existing market structure for scheduled and food crops is de-
scribed in Supplement 11. The Commercial Services Division would contain
a Marketing Advisory Service with specific responsibilities for creating
a more disciplined and informed market structure in the area to cater for
both existing and incremental production.
20.       Market Intelligence.  There is no formal regional or national crop
market intelligence service available to farmers. Uniform and accepted
grades exist only for scheduled crops, so although prices for other crops



ANNEX 8
Page 6
in individual markets will reflect quality and condition of offerings as
well as supply and demand, these prices cannot be related to a common
standard. The information that does circulate is liable to considerable
distortion and deliberate circulation of misleading news is not unknown.
Such a situation not only affects short-term marketing actions, but also
delays or impairs planting decisions with possible adverse affects on
both producer and consumer.
21.       The project would, therefore, establish an efficient market intel-
ligence service for farmers. Links would be established with main recording
centers and particularly with market sections in other development schemes;
direct and indirect contact would be maintained with large users such as
feed manufacturers and poultry producers, and a close liaison would be devel-
oped with the National Grain Production Company. 1/ Prices and trends in main
markets would be regularly recorded and the resulting data circulated inside
and outside the project. Simple analysis work would be carried out but the
primary emphasis would be to establish an efficient news recording and dif-
fusion system. Weekly news sheets would be circulated to all FSC locations
for prominent display and all staff members working or travelling away from
their station would be required to ensure they possessed up-to-date news
prior to their departure. Only experience will show how often fresh news
should be disseminated because too great a frequency could cause confusion;
weekly should be quite sufficient, except perhaps at the height of the
season.
22.       Those handling market news would be essentially providers rather
than interpreters of information, since the potential consequences of gra-
tuitously providing wrong market advice are too serious to be incurred un-
necessarily. Interpretation of market information would be stictly reserved
for Marketing Advisors (see below) but advice would be confined to outlining
possible courses of action and likely consequences thereof, thus aiding the
recipient in narrowing his choices of action.
23.       Weights and Measures.  While regular market users can possess
considerable skill in visually judging the value of produce sold in an
inconsistent range of volumetric measures, such standards generally provide
an unhealthy basis for exploitation of the inexperienced and ill-informed
and prevent dissemination of market information in terms of any practically
conceptualized standard. In addition, similar volumes of produce can vary
substantially in weight due to pest infestation. 2/
24.       Weights and measures regulations are now subjects of study by the
Federal Ministry of Trade and Industry with the objective of producing
standard volumetric measures throughout the country. The project would
1/   See Supplement 11.
2/   A weevilled grain may occupy the same space as a sound grain but
weigh only half as much.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
liaise closely with the Federal Minister of Trade and Industry and would
assist in implementing a two phase overhaul of standards within the
project areas. This would involve replacing all existing measures in
main markets in the project areas as a condition of obtaining trading
licenses. Subsequently, and at main town markets, traders would be
required to use approved scales compatible with the previously introduced
volumetric measures. In this way, trading could continue by volume but
would allow the purchaser to continually relate volume to weight and pave
the way to weight-based transactions followed by legal enforcement. These
transitions would be supported by training at primary and secondary school
levels. The proejcts' involvement would be one of support rather than
first responsibility for implementation; the latter clearly rests and must
remain with the regulatory authorities.
25.       Crop Storage.  Harvested cereals are usually stored at the farm
on head or ear, in mud and stone rhumbus or raised woven basket-type
structures (aka) as well as in the roof space of huts and houses; cribs
are also found, but are mainly used for early season crops. Insecticides
are only infrequently employed by farmers but are used by traders and
cooperatives with obviously varying degrees of effectiveness, although there
is no reliable indication as to actual dosage rates. Heat and smoke from
hut fires and fires specifically lit under basket granaries help to deter
insects and termites, but ratguards are unusual and losses due to rodents
are reputedly high. Farm storage capacity is generally related to estimated
family requirements and this influences timing and volume of postharvest
sales, particularly in "good" years. Marketing of surplus foodcrops tends
to extend over a long period, mainly to allow new season prospects to
clarify; a fact that partially explains the long carry that seems to be
necessary before full storage costs can be recovered, particularly for
maize. 1/
26.       There have been no storage surveys in the project areas and no
quantitative information concerning losses is available. 2/ Climatic
conditions are generally unfavorable for the early crops that are taken
through to grain, but the dry season allows the late crop harvest to
reach safe moisture levels before the onset of the next rains. Where
reasonable moisture content is achieved (<13%), grain appears to retain
1/   Price data from western states show that usually (five years out of
six) maize has to be carried for more than five months before increases
in market prices compensate for storage costs.
2/   Early in the project period, the Marketing Advisory Service would under-
take indepth studies to determine storage capacity and provide storage
loss inforamtion. The initial listing of villages in the project area
for evaluation purposes could also provide general data on storage
capacity. Further surveys could be based on this initial listing. As
storage is part of the overall farm management decisions, storage surveys
would be incorporated in the mainline surveys undertaken by the evaluation
section of the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
condition well, but quality may be adversely affected through damage by
insects and rodents. Discussions with farmers indicated that losses from
causes other than simple drying out were probably less than might have been
expected and on a twelve-month basis (although little if any grain will be
stored that long) could range between 5% and 25%, the higher figure covering
early crops and cowpeas.
27.       Yams are extremely difficult to store satisfactorily, primarily
because their metabolic activity continues after harvest and the natural
tendency to sprout is accentuated by the warm humid conditions that occur
throughout most of the year. Weight and condition loss occurs through dehydra-
tion, rot and decay, and has been recorded at 49% after five months in con-
ventional barn storage, 1/ although rather lower figures appear more usual; 2/
disease and physical damage sharply reduce storability, as does exposure to
the sun. Limewashing has been found to reduce losses over periods of up to
ten weeks, but to be ineffective thereafter. In general the lowest losses
occur in sound tubers quickly stored in airy, shaded conditions. If these
provisions are met then the traditional pole-hanging storage method does
not seem to have any significant advantage over shelf storage or even care-
ful stacking. The nature of the plant, however, as well as climatic condi-
tions, militates against successful storage at farm level beyond April.
28.       Because of the effect of store losses on farmers' returns and the
problem of reliably expressing them in absolute terms, relative figures of
weight loss have been used in calculating farmgate prices. These have been
derived from discussions with farmers, examination of new and old crop
samples and consideration of harvesting times and probable storage periods.
29.       Cassava does not pose any problems since it stores well in the
ground. Rice is not susceptible to significant insoil damage, though rodents
can be a problem; however, surplus production could be quickly marketed by
arrangement with the Rice Company, Jos; for benniseed also, rapid disposal
to the Marketing Boards would be possible.
30.       Project assistance in farm storage would be confined to expanding
and improving existing forms of farm storage. Storage insecticides have been
included in the improved and advanced farm budgets and this technology would
be an important dissemination operation for the general extension service.
Credit assistance for storage would also be provided to farm groups who wish
to assemble and bulk their surplus produce and introduce more elaborate storage
techniques.
31.       A standard 3 x 8 m basic storage unit is envisaged, timber framed
and clad with weldmesh (for farm storage) or traditionally manufactured bricks,
1/   0. Olorunda and S.A. Adeyasi NSPRI Technical Report No. 7
2/   10% after three months and 20% or more after five months are reported
by D.G. Coursey.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
and with corrugated iron roofs. 1/ Materials would be provided on credit
by the project which would also provide specialist assitance in construction
(such as a mason). Unskilled labor would be provided by the groups.
32.       The projects would investigate alternative storage techniques
during implementation. This would include polythene bag storage, particularly
for early season grains, 2/ fumigants such as aluminum phosphor tablets for
insect control, and the use of simple driers using predominantly local
materials. 3/ Additional pest control assistance would be provided to groups
entering into marketing contracts under the project.
33.       Foodcrop Marketing.  The projects would provide a specialist market-
ing service for groups wishing to extend their produce sales to wholesale and
retail levels. The service would be provided on an agency basis and would
initially concentrate on establishing contracts and market outlets with
institutions; contact with institutions and supply contractors during ap-
praisal, plus the present, often marked difference between farmgate and
urban wholesale and retail prices, indicate that response to the service
would be high. Contracted produce would be backed by inspection and quality
control to ensure that minimum standards are maintained. An agency fee of 5%
would be levied for the service with all handling and transport costs carried
by seller or buyer according to contract. Treatment, grading and bagging of
produce would be supervised by produce inspectors.
34.       Scheduled Crop Market.  Efforts would be directed towards improving
statutory marketing arrangements in the area and helping producers achieve
a larger share of the Nigerian Produce Marketing Corporatin (NPMC) takeover
price. Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) and their subagents in the area would
be subject to approval by project management and arrangements would be made
with the Marketing Boards to ensure that these LBAs have access to sufficient
working capital, using a system of project-monitored advances if necessary.
Project management would be given LBA status; while it is not intended that
the projects should carry out any crop purchasing, such an appointment would
1/   Construction cost would vary according to type, which would depend on
the surpluses and requirements of each group. Common costs would
include corrugated roofing materials (N 150), timber (N 50), cement (N 150)
and miscellaneous supplies (N 50). Weldmesh cladding would add an
extra N 150 to costs. For calculation purposes a credit component of
N 500 has been assumed.
2/   Tape sealings to creat anaerobic conditions would prevent fungus spoilage
of high moisture grain.
3/   Such as that developed by J. A'Brook at Mokwa Research Station and described
in Samaru Miscellaneous Paper No. 6, 1965, and Tropical Stored Products
Information No. 7, 1964.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
make this possible if circumstances warranted, 1/ and would permit sub-
licensing of groups or other associations wishing and competent to carry
out LBA duties. Such an arrangement would allow the projects to exercise
a degree of control over the marketing practices of such groups and greatly
assist the training process.
35.       Means of minimizing produce transport and handling after purchase
would be investigated with a view to reducing marketing costs. This could
be achieved, for example, by selecting certain markets as Marketing Board
holding areas so that crops would be retained at point of purchase until
required to fulfil a sale contract. The feasibility of individual groups
negotiating special prices with NPMC, as is now contemplated for "Estate"
producers, would also be carefully evaluated.
36.       Cooperatives.  There are 30 primary cooperative societies in the
Lafia Area affiliated to the Lafia Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union
(LCCMU); as at August 1973 LCCMU had accumulated debts amounting to nearly
N 40,000 2/ and activities were suspended pending debt recovery. The
disappointing performance of the cooperative movement highlights the
problem that can occur when a structure is imposed on a community. Early
successes in food crop marketing resulted in overconfidence, inattention
to trading and handling essentials, and subsequent mismanagement and sub-
stantial losses. Many primary societies were also too small to be com-
mercially viable 3/ and abilities were frequently inadequate for their
aspirations.
37.       Government is keen to revise the cooperative movement but lasting
development is likely to occur only if cohesive group formation is established
at a very simple level. Projects activity would be primarily confined to
establishing a stable structure at this level and services would be provided
to any operational group, irrespective of structure. Against this background,
avenues for advanced development should become quickly apparent; this includes,
but would not be exclusively confined to, cooperatives. However, cooperative
staff already working in the area would work closely with the project, and
scope and possibilities for reviving and expanding the movement would be
actively pursued.
38.       Crop Processing.  Undoubtedly a number of opportunities would arise
under the project for small-scale processing or other agro-allied industries.
These would be examined and appraised by the Head of the Commercial Services
Department, assisted as necessary by technical staff from other divisions and,
where appropriate, formal endorsement would be made to applications for
1/   In the past LBA have achieved near monopoly conditions in particular
areas; under these circumstances suspension or dismissal in midseason
would adversely affect farmers' interests.
2/   N 12,957 due to the commercial banks.
3/   Some primaries have less than 20 members.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
finance from commercial banks or the Small-Scale Industries Credit Scheme.
Marketing Assistants would have particular responsibility for assisting
applicants as well as for providing a follow-up service to borrowers.
39.       Marketing Advisory Service.  Marketing Advisors would be employed
at DC level. A group of Marketing Assistants would be created during the
first three years of the project and by Year 3 Marketing Assistants would
be deployed at FSC level. Costs of commercial services are in Table 6.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tentative Sites of Farmers Service Centers l/
1.   Lafia
2.   Doma
3.   Agyaragu
4.   Akwatta
5.   Agwashi
6.   Ondoli
7.   Giza
8.   Keana
9.   Obi
10.   Adudu
11.   Awe
12.   Tunga
13.   Azara
14.   Assaikia
15.   Akura
16.   Shabu
17.   Burum
18.   Dedere
19.   Uga
1/ Tentatively identified for construction in project Years 0 and 1. Actual
site selection would be done by Project Manager. Allowance in project
costs has been made for one more, giving a total of 20 FSC. Identification
based on map study of situation of villages and to ensure that each farmer
would be within about a 15 km radius of a FSC.
June 8, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 2
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN r PROJECT
Seasonal Crop Input Requirements
(Per Crop)
Year 0        Year 1        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
Full Season Crops
YAMS:             Fertilizer I/CAN        Tons      -              800        1,600         2,400        3,200        4,000
MP        Tons      -              200           400           600         800        1,000
Yam Dressing            Tons      -               70          140           210          280          350
CASSAVA:          Fertilizer   CAN        TonB      -               -            -             20          100          500
TSP       Tons      -               -             -             10          50          250
to       Tons      -               -             -             15          75          375
RICE:             Pertilizer   CAN        Tons      -              100          250           400          650          900
TSP       Tons      -               50           113          175          275          375
MP       Tons      -               -             25           50          100          150
Insecticide: Dressing  Tons      -                0.15          0.35          0.55         0.875        1.2
EARLY MAIZE:     Fertilizer   CAN         Tons     -              100           250           500          750        1,000
TSP       Tons      -               75           188          375          563          750
MP       Tons      -               25            63          125          188          250
Insecticide: Dressing  Tons      -                 0.1          0.25          0.5          0.75         1
Storage   Tons      -                2.5           6.25        12.5         18.8          2.5
EARLY MILLET                    -          -                       -             -             -           -             -
MELON:            FertilizeT   CAN        Tons      -               25           75           100          125          175
SORGHUM:          Fertilizer   CAN        Tons      -             100           250           500          300        1,200
TSP       Tons      -               50          125           250          400          600
Insecticide: Dressing  Tons      -                0.03          0.075         0.15         0.24        0.36
Storage   Tons      -                1.5          3.75          7.5         12           18
LATE MA1ZE:      Fertilizer:  CAN         Tons     -               50           100           150          300         450
TSP       Tons      -               37.5         75           113          225          338
MP       Tons      -               13           25            38          75           113
Insecticide: Dressing  Tons      -                0.05          0.1           0.15         0.3         0.45
Storage   Tons      -                1.25         2.5           3.8          7.5         11.3
COWPEAS:         Fertilizer   CAN         Tons     -               12.5          37.5          75          150         225
TSP       Tons      -               12.5         37.5          75          250          225
Insecticide: Spraying '000 1    -                 1.25          3.75          7.5         15          22.5
Dressing  Tons      -               0.02          0.05          0.11         0.21         0.32
Storage   Tons      -                0.63         1.88          3.75         7.5         11.25
Batteries Sets
BENNISEED:       Feytilizer   CAN         Tons     -               50           100           200         350          550
TSP       Tons      -              25            50           100          175         275
1/  CAN:  Calcium Ammonium Nitrate
MP : Muriate of Potash
TSP: Triple Super-phosphate.



NIOERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRIaJLTJURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Seasonal Crop InMt Requirements 1,
Tear 0       Year 1         Year 2       Year 3                       Year 5
PHYSICAL
Fertilizer    Con              Tons                     1,238         2,663         4,345         69425         9,000
TSP                                       250            588.5      1,098         1,838          2,813
MP              n                         238            513           828        1, 238         1,880
Insecticide:   Yam Dreasing    n                           70           140           210           280           350
Dressing       Kg                         350            830        1,460         2,380          3,330
Storaee        Kg                       5,880         14,380       27,550        45A800         65,550
Sprying        '000 1                       7.3           3.8           7.5         15             22.5
Batteries      Sets                        60            180           360          720          1,080
FINANCIAL
Fertilizer     CAN             N '000  2/                 178.3         383.5         625.7         925.2        19296
TSP ?                   2/                 43            101.2         188.9        316.1          438.3
MP              "       2/                 29.4           63.4         102.3         152.9         232.2
Insecticide:   Tax Dressing    n       3/                  73.5          147          220.5         294            367.5
Dressing        n       3/                  4.6           10.8          19           30.9           43.3
Storage                 3/                  5             12.2          23.4          38.9          55.7
Spraying         "      3/                 13.8            7.1          14.3          28.5          42.8
Batteries               3/                   0.2           0.6           1.3           2.5            3.8
TOTAL COST   >                                            347.7          725.8      1,95.4        1,789          2,525.1
Incremental Cost  4/                                      347.7          378          469.6       = 593.6        7=6&i
/ rcnluding improved seeds which are coated in Annex 7.
2/  To avoid double counting; costed  without project costs such as  administration, etc., since this
is covered under commercial services:  CAN  N144; TSP  N172; and MP  N123.5.
3/  Project store prices used and not farmgate  prices.                                                                     0|x
4/  Foreign Exchange 70%.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Physical Requirewexits for Medium and Long Term Credit
Cost per     Repayment                         L  A  F  I  A
Units     Unit (W)       Period        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
-----Total Units----------
Outflows
Medium Term Credit
1.  ULV Sprayers             No          15.20          2            50         150       350        750       1,200
2.  Small farm Equipment    No          150.0           2           100         250       250        250         250
Long Term Credit
1.  Land clearing            ha         100             5           250         500       500        500         500
2.  Subsoiling & Ripping   ha            15             5           150         150        150       150         150
3.  Tractors & Implements  No       10,000              5             5          10         10        10          10
4.  Crop Stores              No         500              5           50         150        150       150         150
July 27, 1976
z :
PX- z:



NIGERIA                                      ANNEX 8
Table 5
BENUE STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Requirements for Medium R Long Term Credit l
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5
Outflows
Medium Term Csedit
ULV Sprayers                                   760            2,280            5,320           11,400           18,240
Small farm Equipment                        15  000          37.500           37.500           37,500           37.500
Subtotal                        15,760           39,780           42,820           48,900           55,740
Long Term Credit
Land clearing                               25,000           50,000           50,000           50,000           50,000
Subsoiling & Ripping                         2,250            2,250            2,250            2,250            2,250
Tractors & Implements                       50,000          100,000          100,000          100,000          100,000
Crop stores                                 25.000   _        75.0000         75.000           75.000           75.000
Subtotal                       102,250          227,250          227,250          227,250          227,250
Total Outflows                             118,010          267,030          270,070          276,150          282,990
Inflows
Medium Term Credit
ULV Sprayers                                   380            1,520            3,800            8,360           14,820
Small farm Equipment                         7,500           26,250           37,500           37,500           37,500
Subtotal                         7,880           27,770           41,300           45,860           52,320
Long Term Credit
Land clearing                                5,000           15,000           25,000           35,000           45,000
Subsoiling & Ripping                           450              900            1,350            1,800            2,250
Tractors & Implements                       10,000           30,000           50,000           70,000           90,000
Crop stores                                  5,000           20,000           35.000          50,000           65,000
Subtotal                        20,450           65,900          111,350          156,800          202,250
Total Inflows                                   28,330           93,670          152,650          202,660         254,570
Incremental Fund Required                       89,680          173,360          117,420          73,490           28,420
1/  Foreign Exchange 60% (farm equipment 80, clearing and subsoiling 45, tractors 80 and stores 30)
July 27, 1976



ooooo 44?O>0 >0    iooo                            4          10000 0.
Oaooo           to OoO.0 40. 0Oo00              1000  0000o0000                                    000-,0    0-0               -00oo0
000  o0000t00o 0 0Ot.o 0.000  000.00000000000  0000.-.               o,l-"--00000l0    0-t000I0*        ,0001  0
.Koooo   ooooooo  oo 0000.000  oooooooo   *o  -tooto  0                  00-lI            -to
4oooo 0.0000                                      0>< 0000                                                    000  000   %0220 >0
0000           0 0000100001  0000000000  0O0000.0,1.0  OtO  t00.00t0 0- .0 00002000000   00                    too              00100
.tOt 00 101.000   0   0Q00O00.OOOo
000000400 400o000   HooHo., 00 0 0 0  00044400 000                                                                                                                  V 0000
00000                                               Ot    0   00                              0    to    000000  llo                          0    2>0   4        >0
000000                     4>0              >04   0    0   00>00>00       0                                                     0   00%000         0
0  0         000000     0 00000        oooooo       000000000         4    >0    444o00ooo               to   K   >0  000   01
0                        .                                                                                                            10000    00
00 000,00.00 00.0000                                                                                                       0004000000000
00                                          0000           0    .000          04000      0.oo             >0>0o4                        00000   0
00-         ..00.         00         0      00o0    00000  4 0                        010   00
0000                                                         0    00000                        0   0      0      0000    040   01         00I0Il00   0          0
0000                       0   ot     0       0000                      0000>00   -+   [>0               0I0ooIo
0000000.  0                      ..                             IV                             C     >0      00$>0                                                      --
000                              0             0                                           K
0. 000000              to                                .0             0
000000 >0
4 ooOoO         0040
004o004
o4>040444 0040
1-00  O  0 o[ 0-t0                 o00.00                                                                                                                     10       <tOO      00
00  000        44                   .0 -             0 0000000000  0 0o010100.-0  0000000.000  0 0o00.oo..o0o00 to-K 01000o       0000000000to10    0100<00   0       -000000    op
0   000000                           -,             00 .0.0.0-.0C.o-100 0000000000  00001-.  100  000 00000000-OOOOt.000010         0000.0000000      00000   0        00.00      0
000   0 0>0000   4 0
>004 0   0000
442041020000                                         000.0.0.0-                                              00 000                                 tO  0.
>0                        00           000      00000  000000.00                                 .000.00.0                          0    --          0000
4.00  00  .00000               '10 H             -      ml                                                                  .0
20 .040>040                tO 00           01 0     10 10100                                                       0000                                  110
00000                  '0 00 00 00100   0 H  001    1000.0  00  I 0011o  001101111   010001101000
boo 0-too                  110 0 oO    01   0 00  0>  000000    0000 000   0                                   001 000
00  47                                      >0 00000         HO            00              0              00           0         0 [100110011               0
0.0.000..        0                            -                     000-0.000.00                0.00.0.0001000.00    00.0.00   0   00000
000000           0 00010000.  00 0-.000001.0000.0.00 0 000  000000000000-H       0'-             00000000010      000000           000000
000                           010     o-.-.-o--oo.-..-  0000           .00.00..0.oo00...000...0..00 000.   000   0-.00..0.0.0  000  .-o00..-.00-..00-.0--0o.0.oo--.o0..0.o0-..o    -.-o..-0-..--o  0
0                        I                                                                        j                     000         00  000   tO       0
K                                           0 10                                            <0  01 000010100000  ooo.>        00      00           0000-00   00  10100000          0
o00   00                                           0        0<0<000000                 000001   ,0 o                                 0 000000.00.0000-0010000000000000   10
.000                            ItO 00 0 00000,  00 01 00 0 0000000000  0000000000  000000  o00  o1r00000000t0100,                   01 0000000000000000000000000                      0
000      404                                0             00 0000  00 000000000 00000.00000  0- 000    ...oooo0  000   000 0
1000000         0, 000000000   0000-001000.0 00 0000l  1-I'  0000.000 00  000   <01               00-10o<o0     0000      0      000<             0  >0
01000                                                                             0                                 0                 00      >0
44                                       0 .00<   00   0010        to            oo             0             <00t         .0                                  0    0.  00000          0        0
00    00>0                      [>0                       F                                                                           tL,010010 0110
00                               0 10010001000   00   00000010t00000000000l00-.0000000001l000oo<0 0001000000000                                 0000  0 00001    0  0  0000
00                              110 coO  0<0000   0 0  0 0 000000<0000  OHo 0.00000 00 0 .00 0 000.0 000000 00000000  0..o00                           o*             0                      2
00                                                                                                                                                                                               4
0.000            10 oooooooooo..o.oooooooooo.ooooo.oo..o   0000.0000000. 0 .00.0.0                           0    0    0            0-
<o4                             10o00o           0000000000 0 0000000000  000001.0000  00001 <tOO0000000o   000                             00   00    0            00                 0 >0
0>00
0  000101011         00                                   0I
00             000.               10
00                       00             0             00000                   0               10                                     0
01                   >0    0          0
0                               >0! It 0 bOo   2 >0  ci It OI.oooO.oot.OOo 0000000001H01 000000100000  000000 o-0000000>01 <<Ott  00 0               000         0   0  00             1
0                     KIlo       01
o,.o          .20 F.0 I" 2>022                           000000                                                                     0
>0       0 04                   IL to 0100000000000  000000<00000000.0000000 0.0 00 0o00 0000001000.00.00000000.00100               0
>0
000000          O. 010000001010  00.0000000000  00000..oO 0000  000o10000000000. .   Oo0                          0000 >0o          0               0  04
0                                        0.0.0000          000000.0.000.0.0.0000.000000.0000000000  00000000.00000000                                       00.00.0          0               0
1.0   I       0 0               000          toO           00              0000          0                            0 tO  000       10
100    0   00    0        0         ooCO, 000 o000000.o  000 000.0 o00000 00000100 000000000001   00  I 00110 10 I I 0 0 000000   0   00    I 0
11.0000000004  0000010000                                                                  K                     00 000 00                      I
0                               111-ItO .0100001000   00101000  000001000000000000000  OOoOo00000o0 000000o00 0.000  0000
>0                                          0.            00                     00                   .0000000101000000                                      0.0.0
0    00                      0.00.0.          0.0.0.0.0.0000.0.0.00.0000000000.0000.00.00. 0000000000000.0.0.0                                   0.0.0.
0           o    too            is >000           00100            00            0.0           Ho-             00000               00                    00  .0
40
00 000001l0001   00 10102 100    ooo.               0
to 00 0            0  .0   0,- 0000100 00000000000  00000.00 0000000 0o 0000000000,- 00  001001
100          1010  0000100.  00 0  10 00 00000000000  000100000000  0000000.0010  00000010000000  40.000        10                   00  000                         0
0    0 0            V                 0   -  100
>0 CoO >0 o.2 .o2?S00  1001 00000000 000  0.00100  <oo-oo  010o0100 0   0000  2 2.   010  00
10           Li   1000000  00 00                            0              000  010000    0<       0000       0  0 10000000         00     0    001000010          V
0    00                                                                                                  00
000                                                                                                                                        >0ooo2.22  >0  >0 2>0>0>0    >0
00            10 0 00 0001000   0 00  00            000 00000-00000  00010000000000 00001000000000001.0o0   00010  00 0 100100000000004 >0
00 0 0010100010000 0000000000100000000             00000000                               0100010010000   00  0 0000            H
4    4>0
0    00                      000       .0                                                                        0           00000000000000    000000001010001                '0
00                           00>0>0     0  0,10010  101  110111100   111010011  0011110 10110  1110                          100000.000100      00000   0        01000        0
0                                                                                                                                                                      0
*    20;
0      oo                                                                                                              lo                    0010         0   00
[0                                                                                    0
tO        0      0                                                                          10       00              0 10100000   tOOOOOo
100             00  0I00l0000l  lolOOlOlo   1101011.1  11010   111011   OIl                    54 00            000001000000   00  0 010010
0                                                                                                                [0000       K>0>0                            .....
;<o                                                                                 00
0                                                                                                 lo 01 000000001000  0 000000000101000.00              tO
22
110 0000100000000  10 000010000000 0000000000010000 000000  1010000000000 00  000000               0 00 001001000000000110  000000   0   0  0.0010     K..






ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clarification of Fertilizer Procurement Procedures
During negotiations the question of fertilizer procurement was dis-
cussed in light of the Federal Government's establishment of a Federal Fertil-
izer Board, and it was understood that the following options could be pursued,
namely:
(a) that the projects could procure their own fertilizer on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in which
case the Bank would reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange
cost if procured internationally or 70% of total cost if
procured locally. Where such procurement takes the form of
locally manufactured fertilizer, then the 15% preference
clause in regard to bid evaluation would apply. In the event
this option is exercised, the Government would reimburse the
project the full amount of any subsidies involved which result
from the cost to the projects of fertilizer so procured and
from the price at which the projects are required to sell to
farmers;
(b) alternatively, the projects could procure their fertilizer
requirements through the Federal Fertilizer Board by exer-
cising either of the following options, namely:
(i) the Federal Fertilizer Board, with the assistance
of the projects, would prepare the relevant
tender documents based on the projects' re-
quirements and place tenders for procuring such
fertilizers on ICB basis. In this case, the
Board would sell the fertilizer it has pro-
cured under ICB to the projects on the basis
of the ongoing subsidized price set by Federal
Government. The Bank would then reimburse 100%
of the cost to the project so long as that cost
is less than the foreign cost of fertilizer;
(ii) the projects may procure their fertilizer from
the Federal Fertilizer Baord without necessarily
doing so on the basis of ICB, in which case the
Bank would not reimburse the project against the
cost of any fertilizer so procured.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
The decision regarding the form of procurement to be used would be jointly
made by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the
respective project Executive Committee, no later than August 1 of the year
preceding the planting season.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of PrDject Costs by Function
Reference
Table        Year 0        Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5     Total       Foreign      Local
Crop Development                     2.8          532.0         463.7       385.2        442.2        463.7        440.2    2,727.0       502.1    2,224.9
Farm Advisory Services              2.9           514.9         585.0       451.4        486.0o       400.0        344.o    2,781.3       811.8      1,969.5
Livestock Development                3.1          318.5         696.6       675.7        828.4        435.8        424.2    3,379.2      1,019.1     2,360.1
Factory Development                 4.2             -           318.0       300.9        330.8        366.7        343.9    1,690.3       244.5      1,442.8
Fishery Development                 5.1             -            57.8        53.1         60.1         41.3         37.3      249.6        43.8        205.8
Roads and Water Supply              6.2           554.6       1,634.8       788.9        781.8        833.6        661.4    5,255.1     2,019.3      3,235.8
Management and Administration       7.1           581.1       1,229.7       544.0        504.4        48B.4        540.4    3,724.0        993.8    2,730.2
Seed Multiplication                 7.5           187.9         220.2       121.9        154.7        142.3        138.3      965.3       206.7        758.6
Research                            7.6             _           139.0        59.4         64.4         69.6         64.4      396.8        62.5        334.3
Training                            7.7           117.9         410.1       219.8        205.8        305.2        154.4    1,413.2        466.4       946.8
Evaluation                          7.8           476.7         232.0       217.0        245.0        214.6        182.6    1,567.9        367.7     1,200.2
Commercial Services                 8.4          441.2        1,704.7       981.2        876.3        793.0        703.0    5,499.4      1,292.2     4,207.2
Subtotal                                   3,724.8      7,691.6      4,801.5      4,982.9      4,554.2      3,894.1    2,9649.1    8,032.9    21,616.2
Other Overheads i                   9.2            4.7          104.6       208.9        243.5        259.4        262.7    1,083.8        517.8       566.0
Incremental Seed                    7.4           21.7            8.6         9.7         43.5         16.8          -         100.3         -         100.3
Incremental Fertilizer/Insecticides  8.2            -           347.7       578.0        469.6        593.6        736.1    2,525.0      1,767.5       757.5
Medium Term Input Fund              8.3             -            89.7       173.4        117.4         73-5         28.4      482.4        289.4       193.0
TOTAL BASE COSTS                           3,751.2       8,242.2     5,571.5      5,856.9      5,497.5      4,921.3   33,840.6    10,607.6    23,233.0
Physical Contingencies (5*)                       187.6         412.1       278.6        292.8        274.9        246.1    1,692.1        524.6     1,167.5
Price Contingencies                               393.9       2,509.7     2,691.0      3,812.8      3,578.9      4,o5o.6  17,016.9       5,275.2    11,741.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        4,332.7      11,164.o     8,541.1      9,962.5      9,351.3      9,198.0  52,549.6    16,407.4    36,142.2
j   Maintenance of Project Assets                                                                                                                                        x



'C' le 2
PNLge I
FlATEAU STATE
IAFIA AGRICULTULAL DEIVEOPUSIT PROJDCT
Suaxy of Project Conte by 11DenSe Catot
Reference
Table        Year 0         Year 1       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year S      Total       Foreign       Local
A. Caoital  xpendliture
Houses
Extension Service                     2.8           417.0          152.0         40.0          40.0                         -        649.o        142.8        s06.2
Farm Development                      2.9           324.0           75.0          -             -             -             -        399.0         9.o         304.0
Livestock Development                  3.1          139.0          224.0        151.0         214.0           -             -        728.0        168.5        559,5
Forestry Development                  4.2             -            149.0         64.0           -             -             -        213.0         49.6        163.4
Fishery Development                   5.1             -             35.0         18.0          18.0           -             -         71.0         16.6         54.4
Civil Works                            6.2          404.o           71.0          -             -             -             -        475.0        127.0        348.o
Magement                               7.1          237.0          184.0         26.o           -             -             -        447.0        115.4        331.6
Seed Multiplicgtion                   7.5            84.o           53.0          4.0           8.0           -             -        149.0         34.6        114.4
Research                              7.6             -             59.0          -             -                           -         59.0         15.1         43.9
Training                              7.7            51.0           87.0         14.0                         4.0           -        156.0         36.3        119.7
Evaluation                            7.8           186.0            -                          -             -             -        186.0         49.5        136.5
CO.mer,ii Services                    8.4           214.0          428.0        105.0          56.0          16.0           -        817.0        170.7        646,3
Subtotal                                     2,056.0        1,517.0       420.0         336.o          20.0           -       4,349.o      1,021.1     3,327.9
Other buildings
Livestock Development                 3.1            73.6           82.1        105.0          20.0           -             -        280.7        118.2        162.5
Forestry Development                  4.2             -             11.1          3.4           -             -             -         14.5          3.9         10.6
Civil Works                            6.2           30.0            -            -             -                           -         30.0          7.5         22.5
M9nagement                            7.1            75.0          465.o         40.0                                      5- 80.0                 99.0        481.0
Seed Multiplication                   7.5            10.0           10.0          -             _-                          -         20.0          4.o         16.0
Training                              7.7             -             68.0          -                          27-0           -         95.0         28.5         66.s
Commerciai Services                   8.4                          390          130.0           -                                   _ _20.0       156.0        364.o
Subtotal                                       188.6        1,026.2        278.4         20.0          27.0           -       1,540.2        417.1     1,123.1
Vehicles
Extension Service                     2.8            12.0           38.0         1C.0          24.0          40.0           4.o      128.0         89.6         38.4
Farm Development                      2.9            26.0          135.6         74.0          96.0          40.0         16.0       387.6        325.2         62.4
Livestock Development                  3.1 1.8                     35.1         16.3          16.6         21.5          28.5       133.8        105.6         28.2
Forestry Development                  4.2             -             29.6          3.2           -           12.4          10.8        56.o         44.o         12.0
Fishery Development                   5.1             -              4.o          1.6           1.6           4.o           -         11.2          8.3          2.9
Plant and Ro-d Equipment               6.2            -            876.7         81.0          81.0        14i.0          81.0    1,260.7         979.2        281.5
Management                             7.1            37.0          18.0          -            37.0          18.0           -        110.0         88.o         22.0
Seed Multiplication                   7.5            24.4           20.0          1.2          16.1.         12.0          8.0        82.0         64.5         17,5
Research                              7.6             -              6.8          -             -             5.2          -          12.0          9.3          2.7
Training                              7.7            12.0           39.6         13.C          12.0         46.8          13.0       136.4        108.6         27,8
Evaluation                            7.a            28.0            -            1            28.0           -            -          s6.o         44.8         11.2
Commerci.l Services                   8.4            83.0          261.8         70.8          88.0         82.8          44.8       631.2        429.0       202.2
Subtotal                                       238.2        1,465.2        271.1        400.6         423.7         206.1    3,o04.9      2,296.1        708.8
Other Equipment
Extension Service                      2.5             -            24.0          5.5           3.0           3.0          2.0        37.5         16.3        21.2
Farm Development                      2.9            31.0           94.3         36.8         33.6           3.6           3.6       202.9         98.3       104,6
Livestock Development                  5.1            9.3           10.8          7.5          11.0          -             -          38.6         23.4        15.2
Forestry Development j/               4.2             -              7.2           .            -            -                         8.0          3.6         4.4
Workshop Equipment                     6.2             -            32.6          0.8           0.8           o.8          0.8        35.8         23.9         11.9
Management                            7.1             S.C          120.0         12.2           1.6           1.6          i.6       142.0         95.6        46.4
Seed Multiplication                   7.5             -             30.8          2.8           1.3          1.3           1.3        57.5        25.5         i4.0
Research                              7.6                           14.1          0.3           0.3          0.3           0.3        15.3         9.0           6.3
Training                              7.7                           43.0          5.0           -           27.0           -          7S.0        32.7         42.3
Evaluation                            7.8            18.3            2.6          2.6           2.6          0.2           0.2        26.5        14.4         12.1
Cousmercial Services                  8.4                           73.3         36.8         80.o0                        _         160.1        992          60.8
Subtotal                                        63.6          452.7       111.1         104,2          37.8           9.8      779.2        440.0        339.2
MAterials
Civil Works                           6.2             _             64.0        76.5          68.6          68.6          63.6      541,3         71.9        269.4
Subtotal                                         _             64.o        76, 5         6e1,6         68.6          63.6      341.3         71.9        269.4
Consultants
Farm Development                      2.9            20.0            -2
Forestry Development                  4.2             -- 2.5                      I.5                                                20.0         200           -
Evaluation                            7.8            30.o           15.0                                                              5.0          5.0          -
Subtotal                                        50.0          17.5          2.5           -             -            -7                      70.0          -
ScholarshIp
Training                              77                            21.0        21.0          27.0          27_0         _-            6.0        60.0         36.0
Subtotsl                                                      21.0         21.0          27.0          27.0                     96.0         60.0        f6.0
Including charcoal equipment.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
Page 2
Sumry of Project Costs by Expense Category, (Continmd)
(Nlirt '000)
Ref erence
Teable       Year O        Year I      Year 2        Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Total       Foreign     Local
B. Aecurrent
International Staff
Extension Service                    2.8           i6.o           32.0        32.0         32.0          32.0          -        144.0         1o8.0       36.o
Farm Development                     2.9           16.0           32.0        32.0         32.0         32.0           -        144.0         108.0       36.o
Livestock Development                3.1           i6.o           32.0        32.0         32.0         32.0           -        144.0         108.0       36.o
Civil Works                          6.2           66.o          128.0       128.0        128.0        128.0          30.0      608.o         456.o      152.0
Management                           7.1           82.0          100.0       100.0        100.0        100.0           -        482.o         361.5      120.5
Training                             7.7           32.0           32.0        32.0         32.0         32.0           -        160.0         120.0       40.0
Evaluatlon                           7.8           32.0           32.0        32.0         32.0          32.0          -        160.0         120.0       40.0
Commercial Services                  8.4           18.0           36.0        36.0         36.0         36.0           -        162.0        1.21.5       40.5
Subtotal                                     278.0         424.o        424.0        424.0        424.o          30.0    2,004.0      1,503.0       501.0
Locai Staff
Extension Service                    2.8           82.8          202.1       282.1        327.6         373.1        418.6    1,686.3         108.4    1,577.9
Farm Developsnt                      2.9           88.0          218.6       279.1        294.9        294.9         294.9    1,470.4         94.5    1,375.9
Livestock Development                3.1           46.7          154.4       210.2        277.4        277.4         277.4    1,243.5         69.9    1,173.6
Forestry Development                 4.2            -            49.4         67.4         67.4         67.4          67.4      319.0         20.5       298.5
Fishery Development                  5.2            -             17.0        25.7         31.7         31.7          31.7      137.8          8.9       128.9
Civil Works                          6.2           54.6          357.5       395.0        395.0        386.8         378.5    1,967.4        126.5    1,840.9
Management                           7.1           87.9         185.3        211.4        211.4        211.4         211.4    1,118.8         71.9    1,o46.9
Seed Multiplication                  7.5           60.2           90.5        98.0        113.1        113.1         113.1      s88.o         37.8       550.2
Research                             7.6            -             48.1        48.1         48.1         48.1          48.1      240.5         15.5       225.0
Training                             7.7           17.7          74.7         83.0         83.0         87.5          87.5      433.4         27.9       405.5
Evaluation                           7.8          172.2          172.2       172.2        172.2        172.2         172.2    1,033.2          66.4      966.8
Commercial Services                  8.4          112.2         470.6        548.8        590.5        602.4         602.4    2,934.6        188.7    2,745.9
Subtotal                                     730.0       2,040.4      2,421.0      2,612.3      2,666.o      2,703.2   13,172.9         836.9   12,336.0
Vehicle Operating Costs
Extension Service                    2.8            4.2           15.6        i5.6         15.6         15.6          15.6       82.2          37.0       45.2
Farm Development                     2.9            9.9          29.5         29.5         29.5         29.5          29.5      157.4         70.8        86.6
Livestock Development                3.1           10.1          22.0         25.6         32.8         32.8          32.8      i56.i         68.3        87.8
Forestry Development                 4.2            -             4.2          4.2          4.2          4.2          4.2        21.0          9.5       11.5
Fishery Development 1                5.1            -             1.8          2.2          2.6          2.6           2.6       11.8          5.3         6.5
Road Equipment                       6.2            -           105.0        107.6        108.4        108.4        107.5       536.9        227.3      309.6
Management                           7.1            7.2           17.4        17.4         17.4         17.4          17.4       94.2         42.4        51.8
Seed Multlplication                  7.5            9.3           15.9        15.9         15.9         15.9          15.9       88.8         42.3        46.5
Research                             7.6            -             6.o          6.o          6.o          6.o           6.o       30.0         13.6        16.4
Training                             7.7            4.2           i6.8        22.8         22.8         24.9          24.9      116.4         52.4        64.o
Evaluation                           7.8           10.2           10.2        10.2         10.2         10.2          10.2       61.2         27.6        33.6
Commercial Services                  8.4            63           4-.          55.8         55.8         55.8         55.8       274.5        127.0      147.5
Subtotal                                      61.4         289.4       312.8         321.2        323.3        322.4    1,i63o.         723.5      907.0
General Operating CoGts
Livestock Development                3.1            8.o          41.7         52.6         64.1         72.1         8s.5       324.o        227.6       96.4
Bunded Lagoons                       5.1            -             _            -            o.6          3.0           3.0        6.6          -          6.6
Office Expenses                      7.1           50.0         140.0        140.0 o      140.0        4ho.o        14o.o       750.0        120.0      630.0
Training                             7.7            1.0          28.0         29.0         29.0         29Q0         29.0       i45.o          -        14s.o
Subtotal                                      59.0         209.7       221.6         233.7        244.1        257.5    1,225.6         347.6      878.0
Other Overheads
Building Maintenance   3%  -/                       _            67.3        143.6        i64.6        175.3        176.7      727.5         436.5      291.0
Vehicle Insurance      23                           4.7          34.1        39.5          47.5         47.5         47.5      220.8           -        220.9
Equipment Maintenance  s% '                         -             3.2         25.8         31.4         36.6         38.5      135.5          81.3       54.2
Subtotal                                       4.7         io4.6       208.9         243.5        259.4        262.7   1,o8s.8          517.8      566.o
C. Other Developments
Stock Handling Facilities            3.1            -            51.0        41.5          97.5          -            -        190.0          53.0      137.0
Water Facilities                     3.1            -            31.5         20.5         63.o          - 0                   115.0          69.0       46.o
Trade Route Delineation              3.1            -            12.0         13.5          -            _            _         25.5           7.6       17.9
Forestry Nurseries                   4.2            -            61.8        74.5          48.4         48.4         48.4      281.5          85s9      195.6
Forestry Plantations                 4._            -             2.0        79.0         209.0        232.5        241.3      763.8         25.5       738.3
Forestry Training Courses            4.2            -             0.2         0.9           o.8          0.8          0.8        3.5          -           3.5
Introductory Forestry Trials         4.2            -             1.0         1.0           1.0          1.0          1.0        5.0          -           5.0
Bunded Lagoons                       5.1            -             -            5.6          5.6          -            -         11.2          4.7         6.5
Research Conferences                 7.6            -             5.0         5.0          10.0         10.0         10.0       4o.o           -         4o.o
Subtotal                                       -           164.5       241.5        435.3         292.7        301.5    i,435.5        245.7    1,189.8
D. Farm Inputs
Increnental Seed                     7.4           21.7           8.6         9.7         43.5          16.8          -        100.3                    100.3
Incremental Fertllizer/Inseoticiaes  8.2            -           347.7       378.0         469.6        593.6        736.1    2,525.0      1,767.5       757.5
Medion-Term Snput Fund               8.3            -            89.7       173.4         117.4         73.5         28.4      482.4        289.4       193.0
Subtotal                                      21.7         446.o       561.i         630.5        683.9        764.5    3,107.7      2,086.9    1,050.8
TPTAM  BASE COSTS                          3,751.2       8,242.2     5,571.5      5,856.9       5,497.5      4,921.3   33,84o.6     10,607.6   23,233.0
/  Including Operation outboard engines.
V  Three percent of houses and building cumulative costs starting year after conatructiun.
j/ T.o percent of vehicle costs ts cover third party and fire; calculated over cumulative costs until year 3.
4 Five percent of equipment cumulative costs starting year after construction.



NIGERTA
PLATEA" STATX
LAPLA AGRTCIJLTURAL DEVELOPMF,NT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plani
Year 0 -/   Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Total              Disbursement Schedule
- - -- - - - -       _ -  - - -   - - - - - -Naira  '000- - - - - - - - - - - - -        -      -     -     us$ 000------
Houses and Buildings                     2,244.6      2,543.2        698.4        356.o          47.0            -        5,889.2
IBRD (4 %)                                 224.5 5/  1,017.5         279.4         142.4          18.8                    1,682.4        1,662.4       2,725.5      2,800.0
Government                               2,020.1      1,525.9        419.0        213.6           28.?                    4,206.8
Vehicles                                   238.?      1,465.2        271. 1       400.6          425.7         206.1      5,0oo4.9
TBRD (100* CIF or 70%)                       -        1,245.4        230.4        540.5          560.1         175.2      2,5s5.6        2,351.6       3,809.6      3,800.0
Government                                 238.2        219.8 a       40.7          60.1          63.6          30.9        653.3
Other Equipment/Materials                   65.6        516.7        187.6         172.8         106.4          73.4      1,120.5
IBRD (100% CTF or 70%)                       -          310.0        112.6         103.7          63.8          44.0        634.1           634.1      1,027.2      1,000.0
Government                                  63.6        206.7          75.0         69.1          42.6          29.4        486.4
Internaational Staff/
Conscultants/Scholarships                328.0       1462.5        447.5        451.0         1451.0          30.0      2,170.0
IBRD (100%)                                528.0       1462.5        447.5        451.0          451.0          30.0      2,170.0         2,170.0      3,515.0      3,500.0
Local Staff                                750.0     2, o04        2,421.0      2,612.3        2,666.o       2,705.2    15, 172.9
IBRD (20%)                                   -          4oa.1        484.2         522.5         535.2         540.6      2,488.6         2,488.6      4,031.5       4,ooo.o
Government                                 7 50.0     1,632.5      1,936.8      2,089.8        2,132.8       2,162.6    lo,684. 3
Operating Costs i/Overheads                125.1         603.7        74353        798.4         826.8         842.6      5,939.9
Government                                 125.1        603.7        743.3         798.4         826.8         842.6      3,939.9             -
Other Developments                            -         164.5        241.5         435.3         292.7         301.5      1,435.5
Government                                    -          164.5        241.5        435.5         292.7          301.5     1,435.5
Increnental Seed                            21.7           8.6          9.7         43.5          16.8            -          100.3
Government                                  21.7           8.6          9.7        143.5          16              -          100.3                   -                   -
Incremental Fertilizer/Insecticides           -         347.7         378.0        469.6         593.6         736.1      2,525.0
IBRD (100% CTF or 70%)                        -         243.4         264.6        328.7        1415.5         515.3      1,767.5         1,767.5      2,863.4       3,000.0
Government                                    -          104.3        113.4        140.9         178.1          220.8        757.5
Medium-Term Credit Fund                       -           89.7        173.4        117.4          75.5           28.4        482.4
Government                                    -           89.7        175.14       117.4          73.5           28.4        482.4             -            -            -
Unallocated                                581.5      2,921.8      2,969. 6      4,105.6       3,853.8       4,276.7    18,709.0
IBRD (50%)                                    -         876.5         890.9      1,231.7       1,156.1       1,283.0       5,438.2        5,438.2       8,809.0      8,900.0
Government                                 581.5      2,0o45.5      2,078.7      2,873.9       2,697.7       2,993.7    13,270.8
TOTAL                                    4,532.7    11,164.0        8,541.1      9,962.5       9,351.3       9,lgB        52,549.6
of which:  IBRD                            552.5      4,563.2       2,709.6      3,120.5       2,998.5       2,588.1    16,532.4                                    27,00o _
Government  -3,70.2                       6,600.8       5,631.5      6,8142.0      6,352.8        6,609.9    36,017.2
IBRD is not retroactively financing in Year 0 except for international staff.
21   Vehicle operating and other operating.
5/   For purposes of this schedule Federal and State Government contributions are taken together.
Assuming signing in December 1977 and thus 25% could be eligible for Bank financing.                                                                                 _5
p/   Assuming signing in December 1977:  thus 75% needs to be retroactively financed.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
US/ '000
FY '78 second half                                   4,500
FY '79 first half                                    2,800
FY '79 second half                                   2,700
FY '80 first half                                    1,800
FY '80 second half                                   2,900
FY '81 first half                                    2,000
FY '81 second half                                   3,200
FY '82 first half                                    1,800
FY '82 second half                                   2,800
FY '83 first half                                    1,500
FY '83 second half                                   1,000
27,000



NIGE-RIA
LAFIA AGIRICULTURAL DEVELOPMIENT FROJEC
ILLUSTRATIEVE CASH FLOW (FEDERAL WVE81NMENT)
(N -000)
Year I      Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Year 6      Year 7       Year 9      Year 5    Year 10   Ye.r 51   Year 12   Year 13    Year 14    Year 15    Ye.r 16 - Year 20
IBRD L.a.  0/                        552.5    4,563.2    2,709.6    3,120.5    2,998.5    2,588.1                -           -            -           -            -          -          -           -            -           -            - 
T..e.  I/                             267.8       499.4        250.9       232.6       291.6        186.2        94.6         H2.6        81.6         88.9        48.7       49.7        40.7       49.7         49.7         48.3        48.7         49.7
TOTAL. CASH INFLOW                    820.3    5062.6       2,960.5    3,353.1    3,209.1    2,774.3             94.6         92.6        91.6         80.9        48.7       48.7        48.7       48.7         48.7         48.7        46.7         49.7
CASH OUTFLWW 
IBRDl Lea  (State)                   552.5    4,563.2    2,799.6    3,121.5    2,99H.5    2,58N.1                      -            -           -            -           -          -          -                  -            -           -
FMiC S.b-ati.n (state)  2/          1,083.2    2,728.3    2,960.9    2,399.4    2,218.4    2,145.0              435.0       423.o        416.0       355.0        209.0      209.0       209.0      209.0        299.0        209.0       209.0        209.0
IaP.t Subaidy  3/                    200.6        438.5       733.5    1.115,4    1,573.0    1,573.9          1,573.0     1,573.9    1,573.0    1,573.0        1,573.9   1,573.0   1,573.0   1,573.0          1,573.0      1,573.9      1,573.0    1,573.0
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                 1,936.3    7,730.0    5,504.0    6,634.3    6,789.9    6,306.1    2,009.0    1,996.0    1,969.0    1,928.9    5,792.0   1,792.0   1,782.0   1,782.0    1,762.0    1,782.0    1,782.0    1,782.0
SurPl.e (Deficit)                   (1,016)    (2,667)      (2.544)    (3,291)    (3,590)    (3,532)          (1,923)     (1.913)      (4,907)    (4,947)    (5,733)    (1,733)    (1,733)    (1,733)          (1,733)      (1,733)     (1,733)    (1,733)
Ye be a,et fre  FMG b.dg.t
0/ 1RD Lea. a--at wo.ald be anleat by 85MC to Plateau Itate.
1/I.eludee taxaa rece.i-ed frn proJect, far detail. ece footeote 3  Table 1, Am-e 12.
2/Represets 25. of project rets.
/ 0% . abeidy on fertilifer ...ate.



NIGERIA
LAFIA AGRICC4TOOL DEVCLOPMENT PROJECtl
ILLI)STRATTVE CASH P1.OW (STATE GAYERNMET)
(1'0071
To-ij        YA-LI          Yea  2         Year _ 3       Tsar 4        Year 5        Yer           Year 7       Year 8        Year 9       Yea  5        Year 11       Year 12       Year 13      Year 14       Year 15       Year 16   -y,r2
CASH TNFLOW
1,  IBR0 L.ar  I/                                         552.3      4,563,2        2,709.6        3,120.5        2,998.5       2,588.1          --------                                                                                                                                   --
1.Farer  CreAte Rapa"eert
Medics Ter                                         -              7.9           27 .7         41.3           45.8           52 .3         -                          --                                       ----
Larg Tem-                                                        20.4           65.9          111.3         156.8          202 .2         ---- -                                                                      -            -             -             -             -             -
3.  Tepa-  Subsidy  2/                                     -            200.6         458.5          7 33 .5      1,115.4        1,373.0      1,573.0       1,57 3.0      1,573,0      1,573.0       1,513.)       1,573.0       1,573.0       (,523.0       1,173.0       1,573.0       1,173.8      1,573.0
4.  FMG Subea-ial-                                      1,083.2      2,728.3        7,060.9        2,398.4        2,218.5        7,140.0        435.0         422._5        416.0         355.0         209.0        209.0         208.0         208.0         209,0         288.0         209.0         209.0
Tata1 Cash Iefl-e                                       1,835.7      7,5720.4       5,307.6        6,4050        6530           6526          708T          1,995.5      0,989.0       1,928.2       1,782.0       1,782.0       1,782.0       8,782.0       1,782.0       1,782,0       1.782.0      1,782.0
CASH 017[LaW
Hsuaca I   alsg                                 2,244.6       2,543.2          698.4         356.0           47.0           -             --                         -             -             -             -             -             -            -              -            -             -
YablrlasElqcpe.-e                                 301.8       1,981.9          458.7          575. 4        530.1          229 .5         -            -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -            -             -
Irre--rl..a  A tresS.  Staff Salaries           1,058.T      2,502.)        28868.5        3,863.3        3,117.0        2,7 33 .0    1,150.04/   1,150.0         0,050.0         930.8         575.0        173.0         575.0         525 .0        571.0         575.0         575,0         57 5.0
Ova..bhsd/lj-11-taed/Other                        706.6      3,689.8        3,954.4        5,339.3        4,973.3        5,420.8         590.0 5/      40.0         503.0         498.0         260.0         260.8         260.0         268.8        260 .0         260.8        060.0         268.0
S.bratal                                 4,311.0    10,718.7         7,980.0        9,332,0        8,667.4        8,433.3       1,760.5      1,690,0       1,665.0       1,420,0         831.0         835,0         835.0         835.0         835.0         831.0         835.0         835.0
6.  Fa--e  Credit
Mediam Term                                        -             15.7           39 .7          42.8          48,9           55 .7         -             -            -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -
L_eg Tar                                           -            102.7          227 .2         2 27 .2       227,2          2 27,.2        -                          ------
Subtoeal                                    -            117.9          266 .9         270.0         276,1          282 .9         -                          ----------
7. I-ut._
Perlojeer-                                                      250.2          348.1          916.9       1,394.2        1,966,2       1,866.2      1,966,2       1,966.2       1,966,2       1,966.2       1,966.2       1,966.2       1,966.2       1,966.2       1,966.2       1,966.2      1,966,2
Sed  6/                                           21.7           8,5           9.6           43.5           16.8
Onse-leiide  6/                                                  97.1           80,6          000,8         106.3          118.3          .            .             -             -             -              
Sabtetal                                     21.7        3 56.53        638,3       0,061.2        0,5277.3       2,084,5       1,966.2       1,966.2      1,966,2       1,966.2       1,966.2       1,966.2       1,966,2       1,966,2       1,966,2       1,966.2       1,966,2       1,966.2
(1) L.- C it-    F-   7/62.5                             104,0           08.6           56.9          32,.8          11.3                       -             -             -                    -             -      .                    -             -             -             -
Ieses                                                  25.1        556 .2         812.2        1,105.6       0,361.2           .             -                           -              
PrIerpa '                                                           --                                                      2,500.0       2,470.5       2,380,0       2,280,0      2,180,0       2 ,0C80. 0    1,9790.0      1,8790.0      1,790.0       1,690.0       1,590.0       1,490.0       2,210.0
Sabtotal                                    180.6        660.2          895.8       1,162.5        1,394.0        2,581.3       2,470,2      3,380.0       2,280,0       2,080.0       2,088,0       1,990.01      1,890.0       1,790.0       1,690.0       1,590.0       0,498.8       1,218.8
Ostal CeaS OcefOawS/                        ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~4,520.0    11,852.0  9,781.0  11,825.0     11,864.0       12,880,0       6,167,0       6,036,0       5,917.0      5,566.8       4,811.0       4,791.0       4,691.0       4,591,0       4,491.0       4,391.0       4,091.0 
S-rplas  (Defrirf) 9/                                       (2,885)      (4,532)        (4,478)        (5,420)       (5 ,329)       (6,312)       14,1097       (4,080)       (3,9285       (3,638)      (3,829)       (3,889)       (2,909)       (2,889)       12,789)       (2,609)       (2,509)       (2,229)
Ta be met Les Ortet badger
1/ 20$ 27 m111r- Ar 8.755 far 20 year   ftlh 4.5 year  grace far pri-cLpal.
2/80. af -tra  fe-tiliee   ceas  bar-  as  -abeidy by FMC.
FMPl  sab-ealtie   25OS  a8 eara  pea e-  rears
4/Case  -e Oard to     -g.aag -e  asd adeisi .s..arla; rep dee-lapa-  sad far  adelsa..y  -ei-e
57 le1ldiag-   -eara    ese  af ..a.et  creted by p-aJe-; teiding .ad -vl-tiar casts
g-adaslly r-daad ta eat  ie Ya,  10.
VI-eae-etl casts any.
0/A  3/4 at IT pee .a.a- 09 aedisbar-d sCr
/I-eldee pele-lpal ard ite -tes  rpy-tas  cal-altad aa la-e  pays-t at p-saipa1 basis.
9/ Figarsarsa.rded.



ANNEX 11
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
A. Market Background
1.        Official market support and intervention in Nigeria has been largely
confined to a narrow sector of export (or scheduled) crops while food crops
have been traded almost entirely within the private sector. The scheduled
crops have traditionally provided a major source of income for farmers, but
since the end of the Civil War, increasing urbanization and substantial rises
in oil-originated income have led to marked increases in domestic food prices
relative to those of the export crops, which have declined both in absolute
areas planted and in proportion of the non-industrial crops marketed through
the statutory system.
2.        Scheduled Crops.  Responsibility for scheduled crop marketing lies
with the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC), initial purchases and
assembly being performed through a series of franchise operations negotiated
between NPMC and the various marketing boards. Actual buying is carried out
by Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) at gazetted buying stations and traded produce
is subject to quality control by the Produce Inspection Service of Federal and
State Agricultural Ministries.
3.        The project area is served by the Benue Plateau Marketing Board
(BPMB) 1/ which was established in 1972 and assumed responsibility for opera-
tions and installations in the former Benue Plateau State which were hitherto
run by the Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB). Guaranteed buying prices
are uniform throughout the country and are fixed annually by the Head of State
advised by the Technical Committee on Produce Price Fixing. LBA incentive is
provided by a Block Buying Allowance plus a transport differential on a fixed
ton/kilometer basis.
4.        Since 1973, FMG has introduced a series of reform measures aimed
at revitalizing the statutory system. Attention has been focused both on
stabilizing doemstic food prices and on improving producer returns on
scheduled crops by abolishing produce taxes and substantially improving
guaranteed prices; the latter now more closely resemble domestic demand
rather than export parity, and trading losses incurred by the statutory system
are carried by subventions from FMG. Average guaranteed prices over the last
six years are as follows:
1/   Since the creation of additional states earlier this year, BPMB
has traded under the name of the Plateau Marketing Board.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Naira per Ton
1972/73    1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
Benniseed                       106.5     122.9      176.3      264.0
Groundnuts                       82.9       -        176.6      250.0
Soya beans                       49.2      51.3       65.0       99.0
Seed cotton                     134.8     141.0      198.2      298.0
Palm kernels                     64.4      65.9      139.2      150.0
5.        Further restructuring of the Marketing Boards has resulted from
the creation of additional states earlier this year. NPMC and the existing
Marketing Boards will be phased out and a price fixing authority and seven
Commodity Boards (cocoa, groundnuts, cotton, palm produce, rubber, grains,
and root crops) will be established. A system of floor prices will be
introduced.
6.        Foodcrops.  Due to the extensive nature of both supply and demand,
foodcrops are marketed through a large number of somewhat unconnected markets.
Most are efficient in themselves but, in the absence of an effective market
intelligence service, prices can vary substantially within and between areas
of production and consumption.
7.        These problems are exaggerated by goods being sold by volume rather
than weight. Standard measures vary in size between different areas and largely
conceal the effects of pest infestation on volume/weight ratios. Storage is
carried out mainly on the farm, and since production is still largely sub-
sistence oriented, production surplus may not be released onto the market
until prospects for the coming season can be appraised; pronounced seasonal
price movements are frequently the result.
8.        Government intervention into this sector has been restricted to
strategic grain purchases but total volume stored is presently insignificant.
Expansion is proposed under the Third Five-Year Development Plan, and consider-
ation is now being given to more direct intervention with guaranteed minimum
prices provided for all the major foodcrops.
9.        Crop Inputs.  Supplies of fertilizers are presently procured and
handled by State Ministries of Agriculture though proposals are being developed
for procurement through a Central Federal Agency. Distribution is made through
Ministry of Agriculture field offices on a heavily-subsidized, fixed-sale-price
basis. Delays in importation and internal transport have resulted in sporadic
and untimely distribution, and supply over the last three years has been minimal.
B. Market Outlook
10.       Supply and Demand.  IBRD forecasts of food supply and demand in
Nigeria indicate that programs to stimulate foodcrop production would be in
effect import substitution programs. With a rising urban and hence market-



ANNEX 11
Page 3
dependent populaJon, foodcrop deficits are projected at 1.2 million tons of
grain and 2.5 million tons of roots by 1985 if present levels of labor produc-
tivity per head of rural population are maintained. Government is now giving
considerable attention to stimulating foodcrop production through Operation
Feed the Nation, the National Accelerated Food Production Program and various
State development projects. However, the food deficit position is expected to
widen with increasing reliance on imported food.
11.       Incremental grain and root crop production generated by the
project is expected to reach 30 thousand tons and 142 thousand tons
respectively by 1982. Though substantial in absolute terms, the increase
should be readily absorbed into the economy with no significant impact on
domestic market prices.
C. Price Forecasts
12.       Domestic retail prices have been collected from a range of market
centers and related back to farmgate level by deducting market overhead,
local transport and assembly costs. Prices have been checked by discussions
with extension staff, farmers' associations, large farmers and supplies
contractors.
13.       With growing dependence on food imports, domestic food prices are
expected generally to follow those of the world market and, where possible,
IBRD forecasts have been used to derive future farmgate price levels. Benni-
seed is an important scheduled crop in the area, and in the absence of IBRD
forecasts, current NPMC export price estimates have been used but pegged
to general IBRD forecasts for oil seeds.
14.       A summary of farmgate prices is given in Table 1 and is presented
in terms of economic prices, financial prices fully costed and financial
prices at market level, the latter representing the difference between
guaranteed or domestic price levels and those derived by considering current
and projected world market prices. A more detailed description of the
domestic marketing system and assumptions used in price forecasting is
contained in Supplement 11.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Farmgate Prices 1/
(Expressed in 1976 Constant Naira)
Economic               Financial at Factor Cost         Financial at Market Prices
Basic                Units         1976     1980      1985       1976       1980       1985       1976        1980       1985
Annual Crops
Yams                         Domestic Retail           Tons          74        67        67       68           61         61         68         61         61
Cassava                      Domestic Retail                         23        22        22       20           19         19         20         19         19
Rice                         Import Substitution                     99       143.5    143.5      91          135.5      135.5      202.5       -          -
Early Maize                  Import Substitution                     93        92        92       91           90         90         91         90         90
Early Millet                 Domestic Retail                        103        99.5      99.5     95           92         92         95         92         92
Early Melon                  Domestic Retail                        310       291       291      288          268        268        288        268        268
Sorghum                      Import Substitution                     98.5      95        94.5    101.5         98         97.5      101.5       98         97.5
Late Maize                   Import Substitution                     97        96.5      96.5     95.5         94         94         95.5       94         94
Cowpeas                      Domestic Retail                        188       181       181       174         167        167        174        167        167
Benniseed .                  Export Parity                          175       175       225       158.5       158.5      208.5      257.5 2/   -           -
Crop Inputs
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate   Importation                Tons          134.5    150.5    154         150         165.5      169         30 3/      -          -
Triple Super Phosphate       Importation                            156       183       188.5    171          198        203.5       30 3/      -          -
Muriate of Potash            Importation                            124       127       126       139         142        141         30 3/      -          -
Seed Dressing 4              Importation               kg.           15        15        15        15          15         15         15         15         15
Yam Dressing 5/              Importation                              1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2
Storage Dressing 6/          Importation                              1         1         1         1           1          1          1          1          1
Sprays 7/                    Importation               ha            13.5      13.5      13.5      13.5        13.5       13.5       13.5       13.5       13.5
1/  See Supplement 11 for details of calculation.
2/  Represents guaranteed purchase price by marketing boards after deducting assembly costs.
3/  Represents Government subsidized fertilizer prices.
4   Basis Aldres T.
5/ Basis Aldrin 2.5.
6/  Basis Gammalin A.
7/ Basis Endosulfan; total per hectare includes sprayer depreciation and battery costs.
July 27, 1976



ANNEX 12
NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Justification
1.        Costs and benefits used in calculating the economic rate of return
to the project are given in Table 1. The project's rate of return is 23%.
Table 2 shows the results of the sensitivity analysis.
2.        The following assumptions and methods were used in calculating
cost and benefit streams:
(a)  Project life:  Project life is assumed to be 21 years (start-up
year; five year project investment period during which
development activities will be initiated and substantially
completed, and 15 subsequent years). No residual value is
attributed after the project period, except for valuation
of the herd in the grazing reserves.
(b) Project costs:
(i) project costs during the investment period are identical
to those in Annex 9;
(ii) price contingencies have been excluded but project physical
contingencies have been included during the project develop-
ment period;
(iii) identifiable taxes and duties have been excluded;
(iv) incremental economic costs have been used; to adjust
financial costs accordingly, present expenditures for
agricultural development in the project area have been
subtracted;
(v) Since APMEPU's services are shared by other projects, only 25%
of APMEPU's costs have been charged to the project during the
project development period;
(vi) costs of extension, farm advisory services and management
and administration have been assumed to remain at 100%
of Year 5 level until Year 10 and at 50% from Year 10 onwards,
on the basis that in the later periods of project life farmers
will require less support to maintain output at projected levels;
(vii) costs of seed multiplication have been assumed at Year 5
level throughout the remainder of the project life;



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(viii)  costs of livestock extension have been discontinued
after Year 5, but maintenance costs related to the
grazing reserves have been taken into account;
(ix)  costs of maintenance of pole and fuelwood plantations
and of fishing lagoons have been included during the
life of the project, but other forestry and fishery
extension costs have not been taken into account after
Year 5;
(x) costs of road maintenance have not been taken into
account as it is assumed that these are offset by
additional road benefits;
(xi)  costs of training and evaluation have been assumed to
gradually decline to zero in Year 10, and no further
research costs have been taken into account after
Year 5;
(xii)  farm labor in the farm budget economic return calculations
has been shadow priced at N 1.00 per manday compared with
an estimated rural wage rate of N 1.40 per manday; this
adjustment reflects the seasonal nature of onfarm wage
levels in the project area;
(xiii)  fertilizers in the farm budget have been valued at economic
prices reflecting the deduction of taxes and profits in
the handling of these inputs; and
(xiv)  herds presently grazing in areas earmarked for grazing
reserves and entries have been valued as a cost.
(c) Project benefits:
(i) For the purposes of the project's economic cash flow analysis,
net incremental production benefits have been included; i.e.,
net economic margins for various crops as described in Annex 2
have been multiplied by the relevant acreages under these
crops;
(ii) economic farmgate prices are based on 1980 projections in
1976 constant terms (based on IBRD forecasts for rice,
maize and sorghum, and on retail value or Marketing Board
prices for other crops);
(iii) the values of yams, cassava, millet, melon, and cowpeas
are based on local consumption; the values of rice, maize
and sorghum are based on import substitution; and the
value of benniseed is based on export parity;



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(iv) benefits from grazing reserves 1/ have been taken into
account, but no benefits for livestock development have
been taken into account;
(v) forestry benefits are based on the stumpage benefits of
pole/fuelwood plantations; 2/ and
(vi) fishery benefits 3/ are based on increased catches from
lagoons.
3.        Based on these assumptions the project's overall rate of return is
23%. The rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs and
benefits: a 50% increase in costs would result in a rate of return of 13% and
a 50% decrease in benefits in a rate of return of 7%; a simultaneous 20%
increase in costs and 20% decrease in benefits would result in a rate of
return of 13%. A one-year delay in project benefits gives a rate of return
of 18% and a two-year delay gives a rate of return of 15%. Project sensi-
tivity has been further tested to slower than assumed farmer adoption
rates for various crops; the project continues to be economically viable
(10% EER) even when the area under improved production is reduced from
from 70,000 ha to 28,000 ha.
4.        A separate rate of return has been calculated for the fuelwood/pole
plantations, the bunded lagoons, and the grazing reserves. The rates of return
are 10.4%, 22% and 20% respectively. In addition, a rate of return has been
calculated for the Basic Services Package (BSP) provided under the project.
This calculation takes only crop production benefits into account and excludes
the costs of livestock, forestry and fishery development, research, and
evaluation (both project and APMEPU) 4/. The resultant rate of return was 33%
for the BSP provided under the project.
1/   For detailed grazing reserve ROR calculations, see Supplement 4.
2/   For detailed forestry ROR calculations, see Supplement 5.
3/   For detailed fishery ROR calculations, see Supplement 6.
4/   Conversely, it includes all items marked in Table 1 (since physical
contingencies are about equel to identifiable taxes, neither has been
recalculatd for the BSP calculation exercise).



NIGERTA
PlATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURALDVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits
Year 10
Ref. Table          Year 0       Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9       Year 19       Year 20
Economic Costs
Crop Development                                  A 2.8              532.0        463.7        385.2        442.2        463.7         440.2 /9    440.0         440.0         440.0       440,0         220.0         220.0
Fanm Advisory Service                             A 2.9              514.9        585.0        451.4        486.0        400.0         344.0 /9    340.0         340.0         340.0        340.0        170.0         170.0
Livestock Development                             A 3.1              318.5        696.6        675.7        828.4        435.8         424.2 /10   22590         225.0         225.0        225.0        225.0         225.0
Forestry Development                              A 4.2                -          318.0        300.9        330.8        366.7         373.9 /11    17.0           17.0         17.0         24.7         24.7          24.7
Fisheries  Oevelopment                            A 5.1                -           57.8         53.1         60.1         41.3          37.3 /12      3.0           3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0           3.0
Roads and Water Development                       A 6.2              554.6      1,634.8        788.9        781.8        833.6         661.4 /13       -            -            -                   -            -
Management and Administration                     A 7.1              581.1      1,229.7        547.0        507.4        488.4          370.4 a2    370.0        370.0         370.0        370.0        185.0         185.0
Seed multiplication                               A 7.5              187.9        220.2        121.9        154.7        142.3         138.3        130.0         130.0        130.0        130.0        130.0         130.0
Research                                          A 7.6                 -         139.0         59.4         64.4         69.6          64.4           -                         -                                       -
Training                                          A 7.7              117.9        410.1        219.8        205,8        305.2         154.4 /14   150.0         100.0          75.0         50.0
Evaluation                                        A 7.8              476.7        232.0        217.0        245.0        214.6          182.6 /14    180.0        180.0        180.0        188.0
Commercial Services                               A 8.4              441.2      1,704.7        981.2        876.3        793.0         703,0 /15       -            -            -            -            -
Other Overheads                                   A 9.1                4.7        104.6        208.9        243.5        259.4         262.7 /16   260.0          260.0        260.0        260.0        260.0         260.0
Sob-total                                                      3,729.5      7,796.2      5,010,4      5,226.4      4,813.6       4,156.8      2,115.0      2,065.0       2,040.0     2,022.7       1,217.7       1,217.7
Physical Contingencies (project only)             A 9.1              187.6        412.1        278.6        292.8        274.9          246.1          -                         -
Nerd Entrees Valnations  /1                       S 4              3,179.3        771.7        759.6        877.6        826.9       1,160.0
APMEPU Evaluation  /2                             S 15                  -         367.1        260.9        298.8        361.5          283.3
Less Taxes   /3                                                     (267.8)      (499.4)      (250.9)      (232.6)      (201.6)        (186.2)       (84.6)       (82.6)       (81.6)       (80.9)       (48.7)         (48.7)
Less Today's espenses  /4                         A 1.4             (200.03      (200.0)      (200.0)      (200.03      (200.0)        (200.0)      (200.0)      (200.0)      (200.0)      (200.0)      (200.03       (200.0)
TOTAL COSTS                                                    6,628.6      8,647.7      5,858.6      6,263.0      5,875.3       5,460.0      1,830.4      1,782.4       1,758.4     1,741.8         969.0         969.0
Benefits
Livestock  LA                                     5 4                   -         444.7        555.9        793.7      1,596.4        1,912.9      1,724.3      2,025.6      2,001.3      2,016.7      2,016.7        9,564.7 /17
Fisheries  L6                                     S 5                               - _                      26.0 52.0 52.0 520                                     2.0         52.0         52.0         52.0          52.0
Forestry  L/.57                                     6                                             -            -            -             -            - 6                        -         366.6         366.8         366.6
Crop Development  /8                              A 2.3                 -       2,247.0           ,g 3     ,.0 5,664.o                77798.0                   7.798.0      7,798.0      7g_9..       7,798.0       7.798.0
TOTAL BENEFITS                                                     _       1,691.7       3,139.9      4,798.7      7,312.4       9,762.9      9,574.3       9,875.6      9,851.3      9,866.7      9,866.7      17,780.7
/0   A = Annex this report       S   Supplementary Annexes
/I   Valoation of existing herd and further entrees in grazing reserves:  in Year 0 value of existing herd; Year I to 5 value of entrees.
/2   See Supplement 15:  25% of APMEPU costs charged to this project.
/3   Estimated at 5  of vehicles, 10  of other equipment, 10% sf buildings and houses, sod 20% of vehicle operating costs; after Year 5 estimated as percentage of total as calculated in Year 5.
/4   See Annex 1, present salaries amount to aboot N155,00D ; add 30% for other expenses this gives rounded N200,000.
La   Benefits of grazing reserves.
/6   N13,000 per  bunded lagoon (N14,000 less are estimated 300 mandays and allowance for some fishermen costs)
/7   ALthough theoretically not correct st-mpage benefits of a eight year cutting cycle have bees averaged from Year 9 to 20, (See Supplement 5 where benefits of N1,000/ha occur twice in the 20 year period.
/8 Economic margins as calculated in farm budgets muttiplied by estimated cropping patterns, rather than incremental costs on costs side and incremental benefits on benefits side.
/9   At 100-. until Year 9, and 50% thereafter.
/1   Costs of grazing reserves.
il  Costs related to pole/fuel wood plantations, including average stumpage costa and maintenance from  Year 9 estimated at N3.4/ha.
/12  Maintenance of bunded lagoons (about N700/lagoon/annum )                                                                                                                                                                 -
U13  No maintenance costed as these costs are assumed to at least equal offsetring road benefits also not taken into account.                                                                                                  a>
/14  Gradually reduced to zero in Year 10.
/15  Not continsed, as a mrgin whicb Should cover commercial costs bas been incl. -d in farnogate prices for inputs.
/16  Mainly maintenance costs of assets created by the project.
/17 Including N 7,548.0 for end valuation of herd.
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
LAFIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
RoR                                Assumed
Cost      Benefits        Overall Project         Basic Services Package    Overhead    Adoption Rate (BSP)              RoR
(area development)        325
100         100                22.65                      32.55                  K               K                    32.55
110         100                20.15                      29.05                  K               90%                  29.45
120         100                17.95                      26.15                  K                80%                 25.75
130         100                16.05                      23.65                  K                70%                  21.95
140         100                14.45                      21.45                  K                60%                 17.95
150         100                12.95                      19.55                  K                50%                  13.95
K               40%                  10.15
100          90                19.85                      28.75                  K                30%                   6.05
100          80                16.95                       24.85                 K
100          70                13.95                       20.85                 K
100          60                10.75                       16.75                 K
100          50                 7.35                      12.35
110          90                17.55                       25.55
110          80                14.85                       21.95
D X
120          90                15.45                       22.85
120          80                12.95                       19.55
April 14, 1977



iBRD 12135R3
".   Ngu~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~. u
Ngw~~~~~~~~  Y'h ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       7
to~ 
SOKOTO            GU5AU                    I~~~~K  AD    NA 
(I~~~~~~~~~BO
/r~~~~~~~~~/
~, <P L AT  F ALJ
ZAFIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~S1N-AROUTALDVE(PAT~
OYO  Orin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UAW ONAUg
OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE
Fo0.IS                                                                                                                                                        li~~~~~~~~~~~x ~EAQEER"LBEA    0-ELUR RT. P
APE            PEE              AV~~~~~~~~~~~hEr fLOANPV  III PAMJvAN ~J
Q,  u                                                                            GSA                                                            rr~~~~~~~~~~~~HR~RTES        UETES 5V EVrS POEE
.-Od
t.VSAREOAIASE  E                                              RPlAA ES A ENIF
B  EhN    fAILW,USVrEGo                                                                                            AIS!VTEEVSV E l ETR
ITY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KWEEEAASB  EEVS  EVSVVPHRlP
A'                       Bonny~~~~)   \     1                                        Aol
A'          AT     -                              SE'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
'r  k,                 TURAL,                                                    ti ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tnAN 10M UW.)~~~VEEVV  ES






BRD 1233~
.70979                           0_                  rOe I G E S v3,                                                             r 00     ,-         00.,                                                    920      0        1979NIGERIA
'-. -  L_.-~x                                                                                                                                          l ~ ChnSdt'<r  9,30  \  )  Lafra Agricultural Development Project   9-00
S                                 .                                                                                /                            2        /  1              'Proec}  zreabOu7-. 9r0
SEN2N} t0 < tX 8 A, MeAKAR |, I i $ '/ | 4 , * Protect headquarters~~~~~~~~7                                                                                    eodqurter
9N1\    N   I  G   E  R         A                                                                                                                                                       7IO
I;<  }  >6    iX          )                          <                   0,,)/    .eCtR.[tH d ,4                                              -       eAdMAKARPro l     rods
.70.1                        Acwooto                                             fOR ST   RES'RVE              .                         -
s. o                                                                                                  . 9~Morkooeo                        / _  -F.- Se,v- Centers
72e~~rc7       200-MEROON                                                                                   I                                                           toetrsre  r0ctr,ellrS  70
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'R                                                                                                                              sw.-:7>ut \_. k   ;t E. ..y
cg t , < | +#" / 4 O= t dt~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                          .,-yX
79|                    C                  O R E S Tt                   i/ '                                                  lo D O   -t.IiP A                         ' ' i -' , , \U  _ _,'A   D rat  ir o o ds
(FAR]   .UNA                                                    e          toods
__       ' ' ' .        |                                       r~~~~~~~~~~DR                                         ______
PIrt~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~                          /                  i 70  750o 07055                              --~- -                                          Ot   e   od
0,77~~~~ ~ _ of  '  ""z                                                                                                                                                            Acce's   troco
s jd 0    0                                                                                                9  0   20   24   20   02
/7j7TUoo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~KILOW9TER90
70~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         
-.7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dk
.7/~ ~~~~~~
go~~~~~~o
/                                                            'NN
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
ft.     do



