CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1454 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Lafia Agricultural Development Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 28, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1454 UNI
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1977, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Plateau State of
Nigeria (hereinafter called Plateau State) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Plateau State the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Plateau
State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Plateau State of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Plateau State pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-3-
(c) "APMEPU" means the Agricultural Projects Monitoring,
Evaluation and Planning Unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement;
(d)  "LPMU" or "Lafia Project Management Unit" means the
Lafia Project Management Unit to be established pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven
million dollars ($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of


﻿-5-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time te) time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of
Finance, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall exercise every right and recourse available to it
to cause Plateau State to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Plateau State to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan to Plateau State
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Plateau State, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall in its budget allocate to Plateau State an amount
of not less than thirteen million one hundred thousand Naira to be
used by Plateau State for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall for the purposes of
the Project continue to maintain in a form and with powers,
responsibilities, organization, resources and policies satisfac-
tory to the Bank, under the name of Agricultural Projects Moni-
toring, Evaluation and Planning Unit, the Northern Project Moni-
toring and Evaluation Unit established under Loan No. 1092 UNI
(Funtua Agricultural Development Project).
(b) The Borrower's Federal Department of Rural Development
shall have responsibility for the Agricultural Projects Moni-
toring, Evaluation and Planning Unit.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall reimburse LPMU the full
amount of any subsidies paid by LPMU in respect of fertilizer
provided under the Project no later than three months or such
other period as the Borrower and the Bank may agree after the
delivery of the fertilizer to LPMU's stores.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall review, and reach an agree-
ment, with Plateau State and the Bank on the detailed proposals
for the future development of the Project which Plateau State is


﻿-8-
by Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement required to furnish to
the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause APMEPU to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause APMEPU to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, (if any)
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of APMEPU and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borro.,er
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; (ii) undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the
Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
of the Borrower) as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will,
within the limits of its constitutional powers, make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on assets of any of
the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency of any such
political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is
unable within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such


﻿- 10 -
undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any of its political subdivi-
sions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political
subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or any institu-
tion performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Plateau State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) Plateau State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower or Plateau State.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Plateau State has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and Plateau State, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(c) Plateau State has established with adequate funds the
bank account referred to in Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement;
and
(d) Plateau State has published in the Gazette a notice
establishing Lafia Project Executive Committee and LPMU.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:


﻿- 13 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified b: Plateau State, and is legally binding upon Plateau
State in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Plateau State,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
Plateau State in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 31, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Federal Commissioner for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Mosaic House, Tinubu Square
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:
PERMFIN
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s/ John Garba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of tle Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, tractors           3,800,000        100% of foreign
road making                                  expenditures
equipment and                                if directly
spare parts                                  imported or
70% if pro-
cured locally
(2) Other equipment,             1,000,000        100% of foreign
furnishings and                              expenditures
materials                                     if directly
imported or
70% if pro-
cured locally
(3) Fertilizer and               3,000,000        100% of foreign
insecticides                                 expenditures
if directly
imported or
70% if pro-
cured locally
(4) Internationally             3,500,000         100%
recruited staff,
consulting ser-
vices and schol-
arships


﻿- 17
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Buildings and               2,800,000         40%
houses
(6) Local staff                 4,000,000         20%
salaries
(7) Unallocated                 8,900,000
TOTAL      27,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $400,000, may be made in respect of internationally recruited
staff under Category (4) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1976.


﻿- 19 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, in agreement with the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to promote agricultural development
in the Lafia and Awe local government council areas of Plateau
State and consists of the following:
A.   Crop Development:
(1) Provision to farmers of improved seeds, seed
dressings, fertilizer and insecticides and an
expanded and improved agricultural extension
service.
(2) The establishment of about 20 farmers service
centers;
(3) Provision of credit to eligible applicants for
purchase of tractors and for land clearance.
B.   Livestock Development:
(1) Improvement of animal health through inoculation
of livestock and inspection of meat and hide by a
mobile team of a livestock extension unit.
(2) The establishment of four grazing reserves at
Keana, Assaikio, Awe and Wuse and improvement of
cattle trade routes.


﻿- 21 -
(3) Upgrading of poultry through an improved poultry
exchange scheme and the establishment of two poultry
production units.
(4) The establishment of a livestock development
division.
C.   Forestry Development:
(1) The establishment of about 2,200 hectares of
fuelwood and pole plantations in the vicinity of
Lafia, Doma, Awe, Obi, Assaikio and other major
towns in the State.
(2) The establishment of five nurseries to provide
seedlings for sale to farmers.
(3) The expansion of charcoal production and provision
of training courses for Project staff and local
wood workers.
(4) Forest species trials, state-wide forest planning
and provision of technical assistance to local
sawmillers in the planning and extension of their
operations.
D.   Fisheries Development:
(1) Construction of four 30 acre bunded lagoons and/or
ponds controlled by sluice gates for intensive
fishing.


﻿- 22 -
(2) Provision of fishery extension services.
E.   Infrastructural Development and Support Services:
(1) Reconstruction and improvement of about 600 km of
roads and tracks.
(2) Construction of about 400 wells and rehabilitation
of about 100 wells.
(3) Construction of staff houses, office headquarters,
a training center and a workshop complex.
(4) The establishment of a farm at Lafia to provide a
nucleus for surrounding outgrowers multiplication
farms.
(5) The establishment of a training division for the
training of Project staff and farmers in seed
multiplication and of a training center at Lafia with a
40 student capacity.
F.   Evaluation:
The establishment of an evaluation unit to undertake surveys
of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1982
through   February 1, 1997                     870,000
On August 1, 1997                                   900,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24 -
Premium on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payale on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the pLincipal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions.
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturitj                          2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.20%


