CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1454 UNI
Project Agreement
(Lafia Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PLATEAU STATE OF NIGERIA
Dated June 28, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1454 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and PLATEAU STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called Plateau State).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Plateau State agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and Plateau State, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to Plateau State on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
(C) Plateau State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"LPEC" or "Lafia Project Executive Committee" means the Lafia
Project Executive Committee to be established pursuant to Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Plateau State shall carry out the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without restriction or limitation on the obligations of
Plateau State under paragraph (a) above, Plateau State shall
establish with adequate funds a bank account to be used
exclusively for payments for goods and services required by the
Lafia Project Management Unit to c,rry out its Parts of the
Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Plateau State shall establish and maintain
the Lafia Project Executive Committee in a form and with powers,
responsibilities, organization, resources and policies satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) Plateau State shall establish and maintain the Lafia
Project Management Unit in a form and with powers, responsibilities,
organization, resources and policies satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Lafia Project Executive Committee shall be generally
responsible for the carrying out of the Project and the Lafia


﻿Project Management Unit under its Project Manager for the day to
day carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Plateau State shall through LPEC appoint:
(i) as Project Manager in charge of the Lafia Project Management
Unit; and (ii) as the heads of the administration, commercial
services, development services and engineering departments of the
Lafia Project Management Unit, persons whose qualifications
and experience and terms and conditions of appointment (including
terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Plateau State shall through LPEC and in consultation
with the Project Manager appoint qualified and experienced persons
to be in charge of divisions of the Lafia Project Management
Unit.
(c) Plateau State shall transfer, second or otherwise
assign to the Lafia Project Management Unit on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 2.04. In carrying out the Project, Plateau State
through LPEC shall, as necessary, employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the principal lending terms and conditions for sub-loans shall
be as set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, said Schedule


﻿- 5 -
being subject to modification by agreement between the Bank,
the Borrower and Plateau State.
Section 2.06. Plateau State shall furnish to the Bank for
its comments as soon as completed the report of the feasibility
study of the Dep river irrigation scheme and shall not make any
final decisions regarding the proposals and recommendations of the
said report until it has reviewed them with the Bank.
Section 2.07. Plateau State shall no later than twelve months
after the date of this Agreement or within such other period as
Plateau State and the Bank may determine complete: (i) the
demarcation and gazetting of all the grazing reserves which are to
be,established under the Project; (ii) the demarcation of at least
three cattle trade routes to be improved under the Project; and
(iii) the installation of night stop facilities including yard and
water facilities at intervals of approximately 20 kilometers along
the said cattle trade routes.
Section 2.08. Plateau State shall by December 31, 1980, or
within such other period as Plateau State and the Bank may
determine, furnish the Borrower and the Bank with its detailed
proposals for the future development of the Project after its
completion and shall thereafter review and agree the said
proposals with the Borrower and the Bank before making any final
decisions thereon.


﻿-6-
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) Plateau State undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Plateau State to replace or
repair such goods.,
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Plateau State
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by thi Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) Plateau State shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 7 -
(b) Plateau State: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to show th- progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Plateau State shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, sites, works, properties and the equipment,
records and documents relevant to the Project.
Section 2.12. Plateau State shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, Plateau State shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
Section 2.13. (a) Plateau State shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Loan.
(b) Plateau State shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purpose of
the Loan, or the performance by Plateau State of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Plateau State shall cause LPMU to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Plateau State shall cause LPMU to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, (if
any) statements *f income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of LPMU and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.03. (a) Without restriction or limitation on its
obligations under Sections 3.01 and 3.02 above, Plateau State
shall cause LPMU: (i) to prepare annual and quarterly budgets
for approval by LPEC; and (ii) to prepare and furnish to the Bank
promptly quarterly and annual progress reports, including
summaries of expenditures and use of funds under the Project.
(b) Without restriction or limitation on its obligations
under the said Sections, Plateau State shall cause: (i) a central
accounting system to be established for the Project from which
could be drawn the consolidated financial statements for the
Project; and (ii) separate sets of financial statements drawn
along commercial lines to be prepared for each potentially
self-sustaining commercial component of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) Plateau State shall cause: (i) farmers
receiving tree seedlings under the Project to be charged the
full costs of such seedlings; (ii) persons fishing lagoons
constructed under the Project to be charged an adequate fee;
and (iii) all saleable items included in the Project (other
than items being subsidised by the Borrower) to be sold at
prices sufficient to cover the full costs of the items.
(b) Plateau State shall review with the Bank annually
its cost recovery procedures for the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. The Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Plateau State thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify Plateau State of
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Plateau State:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P. M. B. 2117
Jos
Cable address:
SECFIN
Jos


﻿- 13 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Plateau State may be taken or executed
by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance or such other
person or persons as the said Permanent Secretary shall designate
in writing.
Section 5.03. Plateau State shall furnish to the Bank
through the Federal Ministry of Finance sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Plateau State, take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by Plateau State pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
PLATEAU STATE OF NIGERIA
By /s/ A.H. Akinche
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, tractors, road-making
and other equipment, materials, fertilizer, insecticides and farm
inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August
1975 (hereinafter calleci the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procuremcnt Procedures
(1) Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, tractors,
road-making and other equipment, materials, fertilizer,
insecticides and farm inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $75,000 but more than $10,000 and contracts for
buildings, houses and the farmers service centers shall be let
after competitive bidding based on local advertising in accordance
with local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 16 -
(2) Vehicles, tractors, road-making and other equipment,
materials, fertilizer, insecticides and farm inputs estimated to
cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less shall be purchased through
direct competitive shopping.
(3) Force account may be used in the construction of small
dams, roads and wells.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Nigeria may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 17 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nigeria
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Nigeria equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Nigeria.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.


﻿- 18 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all 'group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of qualification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower


﻿- 19 -
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines


﻿- 20 -
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower ai t state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Lending Terms and Conditions for sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans to farmers shall take the form of disbursements
in kind by LPMU to farmers participating in the Project of
insecticides, sprayers, fertilizers, farm tractors and implements
and other agricultural inputs, such disbursements being financed
for the respective farmer by a sub-loan agreement or agreements,
as appropriate, between the farmer and LPMU.
2.   All sub-loans, except sub-loans for amounts not exceeding
N500 or such other amount as the Borrower, Plateau State and the
Bank may determine, shall be made: (i) on the basis of an approved
farm development plan; and (ii) in an amount which together with
any amount or amounts under any prior sub-loan to the beneficiary,
and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of M5,000 or such other amount as the Borrower, Plateau State
and the Bank may determine.
3.   Interest rates on any medium or long-term sub-loan shall
be from five and one-half per cent (5-1/2%) per annum to nine per
cent (9%) per annum and the specific rate to be charged in any
year shall be determined by LPEC.
4.   A service charge of not less than ten percent (10%) per
annum shall be charged on all seasonal sub-loans.


