LOAN NUMBER 2033 UR
Guarantee Agreement
(First Telecommunications Project)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                 '             , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2033 UR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               I      'e            , 1981,
between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL-
OPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Administraci6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to forty
million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into tLe Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor


﻿-2-
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to tae Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall make avail-
able to the Borrower, as and when needed for the Project and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, funds equivalent
to not less than $40,000,000, unless, in lieu thereof, third
parties have lent such funds to the Borrower on reasonable
terms for the financing of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made


﻿-3-
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the. Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Guarantor.
Section 3.02 (a) The Guarantor shall pay or, cause each
political or administrative subdivision of the Guarantor, includ-
ing municipalities, and each entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, and any entity owned or controlled by such
entity, to pay:
(i) all their accounts payable to the Borrower on
account of uses of the Lines gradually during
1982 but not later than June 30, 1982; and
(ii) within 75 days of the date of billing, all of
the bills issued by the Borrower for services
rendered or to be rendered by the Borrower in
connection with lines other than the Lines
and, if such lines are part of the Lines,
only to the extent stipulated in paragraph
(iii) (B) (2) of Section 5.07 (a) of the Loan
Agreement.
(b) If any debt referred to in paragraph (a) above shall
not be timely paid to the Borrower by a debtor other than the
Guarantor and in accordance with such paragraph, the Guarantor
shall promptly pay such debt to the Borrower on behalf of such
debtor.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all such action on its
part as shall be necessary to put into effect, by the time speci-
fied in respect thereof, if any, the recommendations and plan of
action referred to in paragraphs (c) and. (f) of Section 3.07 of
the Loan Agreement and the plan of action referred to in Section
3.08 of such Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall promptly and expedi-
tiously decide upon each request from the Borrower for increases
in the rates it charges for the provision of the services, so as
to enable the Borrower to achieve, in a timely fashion, the per-
centages provided for in Section 5.05 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Economia I Finanzas of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Colonia 1089
Montevideo
Uruguay
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINECON                             269 MINECONUY
Montevideo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin 3erica and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this .        day of        198   .
FOR SECRETARY


