                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 34886-DJI

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-33910 IDA-33911)

                                             ON A

                                            CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION

                              (EQUIVALENT TO US$ 22.5 MILLION)

                                            TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI

                                            FOR THE

              INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                        FEBRUARY 9, 2006




Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 2006)

                             Currency Unit = Djiboutian Franc (DJF)
                                      DJF1 = US$ 0.005618
                                       US$ = DJF 178

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 to    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     Agence Française de Développement
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDE     Chemin de fer Djibouto-Ethiopien (Djibouti-Ethiopia Railway)
CM      Construction Manager
COMESA  Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
DBST    Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERA     Ethiopian Road Authority
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EU      European Union
FER     Fonds d'Entretien Routier (Road Maintenance Fund)
FMS     Financial Management System
HDM     Highway Development and Management Model
HIV     Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA     International Development Association
MET     Ministry of Equipment and Transport
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMMR    Performance-based Management and Maintenance of Roads
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SM      Supervision Manager
TA      Technical Assistance
TEU     Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit
TOR     Terms of Reference
TSR     Transport Sector Review
VOC     Vehicle Operating Cost
WFP     World Food Program

                            Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                           Country Director    Emmanuel Mbi
                            Sector Manager     Hedi Larbi
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Jean-Charles Crochet

                                          DJIBOUTI
        INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Partner Contribution                                                    31
Annex 9. Additional Information                                                  41

Project ID: P069930                                                  Project Name: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR
                                                                     REHABILITATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet                                    TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 15, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-33910; IDA-33911
                            REHABILITATION PROJECT
   Country/Department: DJIBOUTI                                                           Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (91%); Central government administration (5%); Health (2%);
                            Sub-national government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); HIV/AIDS (S); Regional integration
                            (S); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/30/2000                                     Effective: 07/31/2000                12/28/2000
     Appraisal: 05/12/2000                                         MTR:                             09/29/2003
      Approval: 06/22/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 08/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:                 Hedi Larbi                                     George Tharakan
Team Leader at ICR:             Jean-Charles Crochet                           Terje Wolden
ICR Primary Author:             Jerome Leyvigne


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective, as stated in the Development Credit Agreement, was to improve road
access to the Port of Djibouti by rehabilitating the road and associated service infrastructure from the port
to the Djibouti-Ethiopian border. This was elaborated in the PAD in the following terms: " to secure, over
the medium term, an acceptable level of service on the Djibouti-Galafi Road (also called the North Corridor
or the northern section of the international road corridor, of which Galafi is the western end), which is the
Port of Djibouti's transit corridor to Ethiopia during the period when a new long-term corridor
improvement scheme is being developed by the Ethiopian and Djibouti governments with assistance from
the European Union".

Following the deterioration of relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998, The Port of Djibouti had
become the main gateway for traffic to and from landlocked Ethiopia. The sudden and important increase
of Ethiopian transit traffic had seriously deteriorated the road condition in the north section of the corridor.
There was serious concern that the road could become impassible or lose much of its capacity to carry
essential imports, including famine relief shipments. This emergency project was therefore prepared in early
2000 to ensure that trade through Djibouti, especially emergency food aid, would not be disrupted. The
low-cost emergency works planned for the corridor were intended to maintain an acceptable level of service
before a more comprehensive EU-financed project would be completed. Although the project was in
substance an emergency operation, it did not meet Bank requirements for emergency operations because of
a technicality (the emergency was in Ethiopia, not in Djibouti), which meant that normal Bank procedures
and criteria had to be applied during project preparation and appraisal.

The project development objective was clear and in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Djibouti adopted in February 2001. The CAS considered improvements in the efficiency of the
port and associated infrastructure services as key measures to stimulate economic growth and employment
generation in Djibouti. The CAS also identified the main development constraints of the country, which are
its limited potential for development, competition and economies of scale. The CAS recognized that the port
was Djibouti's only significant strategic asset. The project objective was also in line with the strategy of the
Government of Djibouti, presented in the March 2004 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which
highlighted the potential of Djibouti as a hub for regional trade. The PRSP stressed the importance of
"placing the Djibouti Corridor along the transit routes leading to Ethiopia, the North of Somalia, and the
landlocked COMESA countries". The project was expected to contribute towards achieving these goals, by
providing adequate and reliable access to the capital city and its port, and by strengthening the port's
strategic advantage in the region and giving it the critical size needed to develop additional value-added
activities such as transshipment.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective remained unchanged during implementation. However, following the decision of the
European Union to finance the long-term rehabilitation of the South Corridor (rather than the initially
planned North Corridor), a supplemental credit was approved by IDA in May 2003 to enable more
extensive and sustainable rehabilitation and maintenance works on the road between Djibouti and Galafi.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was divided into two distinct phases, with a total of eleven components:




                                                      - 2 -

Phase I: Quick rehabilitation and repair of the road between the Arta turn-off and Galafi
1. Civil works between Dikhil and Galafi involving the full reconstruction of the road with a structure
    expected to last at least 5 years, and repairs and maintenance works on the Irish crossings and culverts;
2. Civil works between Arta spur and Dikhil, including the full reconstruction of the pavement on a
    15-km section, as well as pothole repairs and limited resurfacing on other sections;
3. Rehabilitation of the Roads Department's Equipment Pool to a good operating level.

Phase II: Road maintenance, construction of axle load control stations, and technical assistance
1. Routine maintenance of the entire road between Arta spur and Galafi under a 3-year performance
    based contract to be funded by the Road Maintenance Fund;
2. Establishment of an axle load control system, including construction of two small control stations, one
    near Djibouti City and another at the border with Ethiopia and equipment (axle load control scales and
    recording instruments) for enforcement of the axle load legislation;
3. Project Implementation Unit established within the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET) to
    implement the project, make managerial decisions, and authorize payments;
4. Construction management and supervision of the above-mentioned civil works;
5. Offices, vehicles, and laboratory equipment for the PIU, the construction manager, and the
    supervising engineer;
6. Institutional development support to define, through studies and workshops, reforms and actions to
    achieve long-term financial sustainability in the road sector;
7. Studies on HIV/AIDS and road safety to (i) design and implement HIV/AIDS related interventions
    targeted towards economic and social activities associated with the road corridor and (ii) to define
    measures to reduce truck accidents;
8. Study of the development of trade-related services in Djibouti to assist the Government to prepare a
    strategy for the promotion of activities and services related to trade and the long-term development of
    the road corridor.

In order to expedite processing, the project was divided into two phases with all major civil works to be
undertaken during the one-year first phase. The institutional development components were to be
implemented during the three-year second phase. Such components were intended, in particular, to pursue
institutional sustainability through clarification of sector reorganization priorities and establishment of a
system for the control of trucks' axle loads. These components were also intended to reduce the negative
externalities typical in road transit services (spread of HIV/AIDS, road safety), while at the same time help
Djibouti take full advantage of such services, through the development of trade-related activities in the
country. The institutional components were therefore well balanced with the physical components. However
they may have been far too ambitious, given the limited implementation capacity in Djibouti and the fact
that the emergency nature of the project did not give sufficient time for preparation and design of these
components.

3.4 Revised Components:




                                                       - 3 -

The project's scope had to be changed much in substance, if not in form, when the EU decided to dedicate
its financing to the south corridor (through Ali Sabieh; see attached map) and it became clear that civil
works for such project would be delayed and not completed until 2008-2009. Since the originally planned
works only involved low-cost rehabilitation, maintenance and minor repairs with a limited lifespan, the
project had to be revised to include more sustainable works in order to extend the infrastructure lifetime
from 5 years to 10 years. To this end a supplemental credit of $6 million equivalent was approved in May
2003 to fund: (i) the upgrading of all rehabilitation works on the Dikhil-Galafi section of the corridor
(Component 1) for $3 million (including supervision); and (ii) further emergency repairs and maintenance
on the Arta Spur-Dikhil road section (Component 2) for an additional $3 million. This credit became
effective in October 2003. It should be noted that, although the possibility of changes or delays in the
EU-project had been identified at appraisal, it had however not been expected that heavy traffic on the
corridor would soar at a 14% annual rate.

During implementation, some components of the original project were cancelled or downsized. Component
4, which consisted of routine maintenance on the entire road corridor, was not relevant anymore due to the
change in the scope of works on the road, especially the much more substantial repair and maintenance
works carried out on the Arta Spur-Dikhil road section. This component was limited to small repair works
using force account. Component 5, to establish an axle load control system, was canceled and the funds
reallocated to the first component. Component 11 was also canceled because the French Cooperation was
already financing a very similar study on the development of trade-related services. Component 9,
concerning studies on HIV/AIDS and road safety, was downsized, as explained in more details in Section 4
below. Finally, credit closure had to be extended mainly because of delays in the institutional development
study.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no formal Quality at Entry Assessment. However, quality at entry is rated satisfactory for the
following reasons:

l Project design.The project was a pragmatic response to the emergency situation created by the rapid
     deterioration of the road between Arta Spur and the Ethiopian border. It was designed as a stop-gap
     operation with focused and limited goals. All elements necessary for fast implementation (such as the
     hiring of a construction manager) were incorporated into project design. The project's institutional
     strengthening components were intended to improve the management and maintenance of the country's
     road assets and help Djibouti take full advantage of the benefits related to increased transit traffic in
     Djibouti. Lessons of experience from other African countries were carefully integrated into the project.
l Complexity of design.Although the project design was too complex, considering the important number
     of components (11), limited implementation capacity of the Borrower, and the emergency situation, it
     should be noted that the project actually consisted of only two large components: one related to civil
     works (components 1 to 4), and the other one to institutional development activities (components 5 to
     8). At appraisal, it was however decided to split these large components into several smaller
     components, for a better understanding of the project's intended outputs. The complexity of design was
     also due to the fact that the project could not be formally classified as an emergency operation.
l Consistency with the CAS.The project objectives were in line with the CAS for Djibouti and consistent
     with the country's long-term goal to become a regional hub and transit country for the landlocked
     COMESA (Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa) countries. By providing access between
     the port and its hinterland, including Ethiopia, the project strengthened the strategic position of
     Djibouti's port vis-à-vis its main competitors in the region.
l Donor coordination. During preparation, attention was given to those projects and activities in the
     road and transport sector financed by other institutions (e.g. World Food Program, EU and French



                                                       - 4 -

     Cooperation) to avoid duplication of efforts and wasteful expenditures.
l Safeguards.Social and environmental issues were taken into account in the project's design to limit
     possible adverse impacts. Environmental reviews were to be carried out on a regular basis to ensure
     that mitigation measures would be followed.
l Strong participation during preparation. A strong participatory process was set up to ensure that all
     stakeholders would be involved in the project and contribute to its preparation.
l Readiness for implementation.The most important part of the project (civil works) was ready on time
     for implementation, which was a real achievement in the circumstances. Some early implementation
     issues, however, might have been avoided had there been stronger implementation capacity in place. To
     mitigate the risk, several training activities (including on fiduciary and procurement matters) and
     frequent supervision missions were planned for building capacity at the PIU.
l Risk assessment and mitigation measures. Potential risks of the project were assessed at appraisal
     and measures developed to mitigate them. The Bank was, in particular, aware of the risk related to the
     force account unit's (the Regie) involvement in the project and careful thinking was given to the
     elaboration of a comprehensive set of measures to alleviate such risk.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project is rated satisfactory. The level of service on the Djibouti-Ethiopia
border road is now excellent. Since completion of the last civil works on the Arta-Dikhil section in
December 2004, travel times and vehicle operating costs have dramatically decreased. Travel time from
Djibouti to Galafi decreased from six to ten hours at appraisal to less than three hours by the end of 2004.
Transport costs from Djibouti to Addis-Ababa have been reduced by one-third in eight years, from US$
0.07 T/km in 1997 to about US$ 0.045 T/km. Vehicle operating costs (VOCs) between Galafi and Djibouti
Port have fallen by 60% (from US$460.61 per truck at appraisal to US$184.6), more than the original
target of a 40% reduction in VOCs. The average daily number of loaded trucks using the road is now over
800 (on both directions), compared to only 470 trucks at appraisal. Key performance indicators are shown
in Annex 1.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Civil Works between Dikhil and Galafi (98 km)
Output under this component is rated satisfactory, despite initial delays in civil works. Works were
executed under four contracts, three of which were to be carried out by private contractors (80 km) and one
implemented by force account (18 km). The lots planned for private contractors were awarded to a single
company that had performed well previously on a Bank-assisted project in the region. Following the
approval of the supplemental credit in May 2003, the scope of civil works was significantly raised and the
target lifespan increased from five to ten years. The double bituminous surface treatment (DBST) initially
planned was changed to asphalt concrete surfacing, and a sub-base layer of 15 cm was added. Additional
works included regulating the layer before execution of the base course and the construction of shoulders.
This change in scope was possible because the alternative of using asphalt concrete had been included in
the bidding documents and because little progress had been made in implementation before the decision was
taken. Delays were mainly due to: (i) delays in project effectiveness (Credit Agreement was signed in June
2000 but declared effective only 6 months later); (ii) slow mobilization of the force account unit (14 months
after credit effectiveness); and (iii) delays in the procurement of the three tendered lots and late mobilization
of the contractor. To accelerate the works, especially those undertaken under force account, a time-bound
action plan was adopted in June 2002. Although the measures included in this plan (establishment of a
rolling account, simplified disbursement procedures, etc.) had a positive impact on the progress of works
carried out by force account, it was decided that the most complex works would be sub-contracted to



                                                         - 5 -

private contractors. On its side, contractor Hawk performed remarkably well, finishing all works in 18
months by October 2003. The road is now in excellent condition despite heavy truck traffic. The dust that
affected road users and residents along the road has disappeared. Finally, the cost for the Dikhil-Galafi
road section was about US$140.000 per km (for a total cost of US$13.7 million), about 9% lower than
planned (US$12 million plus $3 million equivalent from the supplemental credit).

Component 2: Civil Works between Arta and Dikhil (88 km)
Output under this component is also rated satisfactory. Civil works specifications on this section of the
corridor also had to be upgraded during implementation. A delay in the EU-financed project and the rapid
deterioration of some road sections due to increased transit traffic required more extensive emergency
works than originally foreseen with funding from the supplemental credit. A partial rehabilitation was
carried out on the 40-km section between the Ali Sabieh turn-off and Dikhil (where no follow-on project
would be implemented), including the construction of an asphalt concrete pavement. On the road section
between the Arta turn-off and Douboubala, civil works consisted of pothole repairs, pavement scarification
and limited resurfacing on short sections that were barely passable. This component was slightly delayed
because of (i) the April 2004 floods that caused serious damage and required additional works; (ii) bad
weather conditions; and (iii) disruption by local population. Nevertheless, the contractor was able to
overcome the delays and deliver works on time in mid-December 2004. The condition of the road between
Arta spur and Dikhil is now good to very good, except on those few sections between Arta spur and
Douboubala that were not covered by the project and where small repair works will have to be carried out
regularly to prevent the development of potholes.

Component 3: Rehabilitate the Roads Department's Equipment Pool
This component is rated satisfactory. All spare parts needed to rehabilitate and upgrade the roads
department's equipment pool were purchased. However, the costs were higher than expected because the
maintenance unit working on World Food Program (WFP) operations appropriated some of the equipment
procured under the project. The acquisition of a crushing plant was also delayed as a result of the
Transport Minister's desire to buy an equipment that was twice the capacity required for the force account
operation, and exceeded the funds allocated for equipment purchases. This issue was resolved with the
purchase of a smaller 40-ton plant. A mobile crushing plant was rented to produce base course materials
until receipt of the new plant.

Component 4: Routine Maintenance of the entire Arta Spur to Galafi road section
This component is not rated as the three-year performance-based road maintenance contract for the entire
corridor under the project's second phase was not implemented. As mentioned earlier, the planned routine
maintenance for the whole corridor was replaced by more extensive and sustainable rehabilitation,
maintenance and emergency repair works under components 1 and 2. Until the end of June 2003, minor
routine maintenance works (pothole repair) were however performed under force account on the Arta spur
to Dikhil section of the corridor, with materials financed by the project. This component was initially not
expected to be financed under the IDA credit but by the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF).

Component 5: Weighbridge Stations
This component is rated unsatisfactory. It was not adequately designed, could not be implemented, and was
therefore cancelled. At the beginning of the project, axle load regulation in Djibouti was not effective and
enforcement laws did not exist. Agreements with Ethiopia and the Port of Djibouti were also required to
introduce an efficient axle load control system. The weighbridge stations initially planned would also have
been inadequate to handle the heavy traffic reported on the corridor (over 800 trucks per day with a
concentration during peak hours).




                                                    - 6 -

Component 6: Project Implementation Unit
This component is rated satisfactory. With assistance from a consultant and Bank staff on financial
management and accounting, the PIU became fully operational and was adequately staffed to manage and
monitor civil works, despite early problems noticed in operating the financial management system (FMS)
and adequately filling the procurement documents. Such problems are however quite frequent in the initial
phase of Bank projects in new sectors as PIU staff get familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines.
During implementation, the PIU's chief accountant was found deficient and had to be replaced. The
component's total cost, although small, was almost three times higher than estimated for two reasons: (i)
initial costs were underestimated given the high nominal wages observed in Djibouti; and (ii) some
expenditures eligible for component 8 (offices, vehicles and equipment) were disbursed under this
component.

Component 7: Construction Management and Supervision of Works
This component is rated satisfactory. Two consulting firms were selected respectively for construction
management and works supervision. The construction management team which started work in April 2001
was strengthened in January 2002 to provide a stronger support to the low-performing force account unit.
The construction manager performed well and took appropriate measures (time-bound plan, additional
expert sent on site, sub-contracting of the most complex works) to speed up force account works. The
supervision manager (SM) also performed satisfactorily. From January 2002 to December 2004, the SM
assigned on-site experts with extensive expertise in road construction, materials testing and utilization, to
supervise all civil works carried out under the project. The supervision manager was responsive to those
external events affecting the project, and took appropriate measures to mitigate them. He satisfactorily
monitored contractors' compliance with safeguard procedures. His final social and environmental report in
December 2004 indicated that the project was well accepted by the population along the corridor. Owing to
the weak performance of the Régie, the changes in physical works, and the longer time needed for project
completion, this component faced a major cost increase (+120%).

Component 8: Offices, Vehicles and Laboratory Equipment for Supervising Engineer, Construction
Manager and PIU
This component is rated satisfactory. All required equipment was provided for the construction manager,
supervising manager and PIU staff. However, additional vehicles had to be purchased during
implementation, as a consequence of the strengthening of the construction manager's team.

Component 9: Institutional Development Support
Institutional development has only been moderately satisfactory. Preparation of the National Road Strategy
Study by an international consultancy was delayed because: (i) much effort was geared towards road
improvements and priority was given to the resolution of issues affecting civil works' execution; (ii) the
setting-up of the Steering Committee in charge of monitoring progress of the consultant took longer than
expected; and (iii) the selected consulting firm faced staffing problems during implementation. The study
however provided a good analysis of reform options to improve efficiency and sustainability in the road
sector, and relied on a strong participatory approach under which all concerned stakeholders were invited to
participate and comment on the consultant's proposals. The conclusions of the study were discussed in
February 2005 during a one-day workshop. Its recommendations were useful to the Government in (i)
recognizing the urgent need to refocus the Ministry of Equipment and Transport's duties in the road sector
on policy-making and regulation; (ii) carrying out all ground work for reforming the Road Maintenance
Fund (Fonds d'Entretien Routier - FER) and grouping all government entities in the road sector within a
single agency; and (iii) developing a reform agenda and action plan for the gradual implementation of a
road strategy. Although the Government was requested to prepare its own strategy and action plan, and
submit it to the Bank for review during project implementation, this has not happened yet. In parallel to the



                                                    - 7 -

National Road Strategy Study, several Government Officials were trained under the project. They attended
the World Road Congress organized by the International Road Federation in Durban in October 2003 and
participated in the first African Conference of Road Maintenance Funds in Libreville in 2003. These
conferences brought valuable knowledge to these Officials on alternative ways to secure funds for the road
sector and on setting-up and managing independent and effective road funds.

Component 10: Studies on HIV/AIDS and Road Safety
This component is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The study on HIV/AIDS was cancelled as a larger and
more comprehensive national program aimed at containing the spread of infectious diseases in Djibouti was
decided by the Government and supported by the Bank through its HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis
Control Project adopted in April 2003. The organization Save the Children was also largely involved in the
matter through its High Risk Corridor Initiative, financed by USAID/Ethiopia, which objective was to
reduce HIV transmission along the two major transportation routes between Addis Ababa and Djibouti
Port. Within that context, it was decided to limit this component to the dissemination of information on
HIV/AIDS prevention to construction workers and communities living along the corridor. This campaign
was carried out by a Non-Governmental Organization, ADER (Association pour le Développement
Economique Régional), during a 6-month period starting in January 2002.

The small road safety study was cancelled during implementation. Road safety issues were, however,
addressed under the Environment Management Plan (EMP) prepared for the project. Actions to improve
road safety included traffic signs, road marking, and speed bumps in villages on the corridor. The drastic
improvement in road condition has also certainly contributed much to the reduction of accidents such as
collisions or overturning of trucks linked to reckless driving. Data were unfortunately not available to
assess the impact of such measures on road safety and whether they did achieve the expected 35%-decrease
in road accidents. Further actions should have been taken, in close collaboration with other administrations
(notably the Directorate of Land Transport and the Police), to have the intended impact on road safety.
This is however a long-term strategy that could not be designed and implemented under the project,
considering the urgency of the operation.

Component 11: Study on development of trade-related services in Djibouti
This component is rated satisfactory. IDA funding for the study was cancelled during project
implementation because a similar study on trade-related services was successfully being carried out with
funding from the French Cooperation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ex-post economic analysis was done for the two sections rehabilitated or repaired under the project: (i)
the 98-km road from Galafi to Dikhil and (ii) the 88-km section from Dikhil to Arta Spur. The economic
analysis encompasses these components individually, as well as the entire corridor. It was performed using
vehicle operating costs calculated with the HDM-4 model and based on current Ethiopian economic costs
and vehicle fleet characteristics, as in the ex-ante economic analysis. Only articulated trucks, the main
users of the corridor, were considered in the analysis. The project's life period was brought to 10 years,
compared to 5 years at appraisal.




                                                    - 8 -

                                            Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Summary

    Scenario                Section                      Length         Cost        Total Cost          Trucks    ERR
                                                           (km)       (US$/km)         (US$)          Growth (%)   (%)


    PAD Estimates           Galafi ­ Dikhil                102         117,647         12.00               0
                            Dikhil - Arta Spur              86         23,256           2.00               0
                            Total Corridor                 188         74,468          14.00               0       31*


    ICR                     Galafi ­ Dikhil                 98         139,796         13.70              14.0     41
    (Actual Traffic)        Dikhil - Arta Spur              88         33,523           2.95              15.8     44
                            Total Corridor                 186         89,946          16.65              14.9     42




                (*) Including costs of $1.5 million for maintenance and axle-load monitoring over 3 years.


Galafi - Dikhil Section
This 98-km section was fully rehabilitated at a cost of US$139,796 per km, which represents a 20%
increase in cost compared to PAD estimates. The actual economic rate of return for this section is
estimated at 41%.

Dikhil - Arta Spur Section
This section was fully rehabilitated on 40 km (from Dikhil to Ali Sabieh Spur) and partially repaired or
rehabilitated on 48 km at a cost of US$33,523 per km, 44% higher than the appraisal estimate. This section
of the corridor supports a slightly higher volume of traffic than the section between Dikhil and Galafi. The
economic rate of return has been evaluated at 44%.

The entire project
The ex-post economic rate of return for the entire project analysis is estimated at 42%, higher than the
appraisal estimate of 31%. The main reason for this increase is that traffic growth, and therefore benefits,
was much higher than expected. Also, it should be noted that conservative assumptions had been considered
at appraisal. The original calculation assumed that the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea would not end
before fall 2005. With all economic growth potential in Ethiopia diverted towards the war effort, overall
transit traffic on the corridor was not expected to catch up during project implementation. In fact, traffic
grew rapidly as early as December 2000 following the end of the conflict.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development has been modest, as no concrete actions in the road sector were undertaken during
the project. It should however be noted that the project's objective (as stated in the PAD) did not include
implementation of reforms but only the initiation and support to a large restructuring process for the road
sector. In that respect, the project paved the way for important reforms and mobilized major donors
(notably the EU) for follow-up work. Measures to enhance the force account unit's (Régie) capacities were
on the whole not successful. Despite its human and technical resources and the support provided by the
construction manager, the Régie was unable to complete its rehabilitation works as required. Considering
this experience, a privatization of the Régie as envisioned by the Government, seems unlikely. Road
maintenance in Djibouti has also not improved. The Road Maintenance Fund (FER) is experiencing
important structural and operational problems, as most of its resources are focused towards expenses that



                                                                     - 9 -

are not related to road maintenance. However, the sector should benefit from the national road strategy
study realized under the project. This study outlined a major restructuring of the road sector by identifying
the sector's main bottlenecks, notably in terms of financing, operations and maintenance, and by proposing
appropriate solutions to address them. The main lines of the reforms have already been included in the
PRSP. Although the Government did not adopt as such the reform agenda and action plan proposed by the
consultant, it committed itself to improving the existing institutional and financial arrangements and to
prepare its own action plan. The implementation of this action plan is a condition for the proposed
EU-financed south corridor rehabilitation project. To facilitate adequate reform and to ensure continuity, a
highly-qualified advisor has been assigned to the Roads Directorate by the European Union.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Changes in the European Union's Project. The decision made by the European Union (EU) to support
the southern route (through Ali Sabieh) for the high-standard regional road corridor and the delay in the EU
project significantly impacted implementation. With no follow-on project on the north corridor, the works
as originally engineered were bound to deteriorate quickly due to heavy transit traffic. A supplemental
credit had to be approved to make sure the project development objectives would be met over a longer
period. The resulting increases in cost and project duration were therefore well beyond the control of the
government or implementing agency.

Weather. In April 2004 the country faced major floods, which damaged two large bridges on and along the
corridor. A temporary by-pass was established around one of the bridges to resume truck movement on the
corridor. However, the reconstruction/rehabilitation of both bridges had to be incorporated into the project
to reestablish the continuity of the road. These additional works were partly financed under the IDA-Flood
Emergency Rehabilitation Project adopted in September 2004. Because of these unexpected events, the
Government asked for an extension of the closing date, which was agreed upon in December 2004 (for a
period of 8 months).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Procurement delays. There were delays in signing the three contracts awarded to private contractors due
to a lack of familiarity by the Government with Bank procurement guidelines.                The fact that a
non-Djiboutian contractor was the lowest evaluated bidder might also have contributed to the delays.
Because of these delays, the project's implementation progress was rated unsatisfactory for a significant
period.

Poor performance of the force account unit. Force account unit (Régie) performance remained low
throughout implementation. Despite the adoption of a time-bound plan and measures to expedite works, the
Régie never performed satisfactorily. The Régie's inefficiency resulted partly from a history of spending its
resources on salaries rather than works and continuously declining technical capacity. The lack of good
management, competent labor, and accountability were also important factors.

Payment delays. Payments to suppliers from the Special Account were sometimes delayed by the complex
and time-consuming procedures adopted for payment clearance. These procedures remained unchanged
during implementation, despite recurring Bank recommendations to simplify them. Counterpart funds also
remained a problem, with frequent Government arrears to suppliers, as well as for taxes and social
contributions.

Local disruptions. Civil works on the last section of the corridor between Arta Spur and Dikhil were



                                                     - 10 -

delayed by disruption from local residents who sought employment from the private contractor. These
stoppages were brought under control after District authorities held extensive discussions with the
population to explain the economic and social benefits they could expect once the international road
corridor rehabilitation project is completed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement and Financial management capacity.                           Until September 2003, the PIU's staff was not
sufficiently qualified to operate the Financial Management System (FMS) and file bidding documents. On
many occasions funds were overdrawn from the Special Account to compensate for the unavailability of
counterpart funds. This situation continued for a long time despite support from the Bank and the
consultants implementing the FMS. The problem could have been addressed if a qualified financial
specialist had been selected by the PIU from the beginning.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal project costs were estimated at US$18 million, with US$14.5 million (80%) for civil works
(components 1, 2 and 4). Actual project costs were US$22.49 million, a 25% increase. This was covered
by the US$6 million equivalent supplemental credit and by co-financing of US$0.25-million from the
IDA-Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Credit 39770-DJI). The original financing plan, revised plan
and total disbursements at closing are presented below.

                                       Project Financing Plan (in US$ million)

    Source              Original Financing Plan             Revised Financing Plan*         Final Financing Plan
                      Local      Foreign         Total     Local     Foreign       Total  Local   Foreign    Total
    Government        2.35         0.00           2.35      2.40         0.00       2.40  0.45      0.00      0.45
    IDA               2.60        12.40         15.00       3.48        17.52      21.00  3.77      18.27    22.04
    Other             0.65         0.00           0.65      0.65         0.00       0.65  0.00      0.00      0.00
    Total             5.60        12.40         18.00       6.53        17.42      24.05  4.22      18.27    22.49


                           (*) After approval of the Supplemental Credit in May 2003

The appreciation of the SDR vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar during implementation enabled the IDA-credit to
finance an additional $1 million of the project and thus to compensate for the lower than expected
contributions from the Government and Road Maintenance Fund (FER). These lower contributions
stemmed from the fact that most works carried out under force account (with Government funds) ultimately
had to be contracted out (and thus financed by IDA) and that the three-year routine road maintenance
contract on the corridor (to be financed by the FER) was replaced by more important and sustainable civil
works.

Although much higher technical standards for civil works were used than initially foreseen, cost variations
were limited to less than 16%. The cost of civil works could have been further reduced if they had been
entirely performed by private contractors. The final cost per kilometer of the lot carried out under force
account was twice that of the other three lots. Because of the weak performance of the force account unit
and the longer time needed for execution, significant cost variations also occurred in consulting services
(construction manager and supervision manager) and spare parts components.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Although it would have been far better for the Government to implement road sector reforms that ensure
greater efficiency and funding of road maintenance, sustainability cannot be seen as a critical issue since
the project was conceived as an emergency operation and, especially, an interim solution before



                                                              - 11 -

implementation of the EU-financed rehabilitation project. Overall, however, project works have a
reasonable chance of being sustainable for the following reasons:

l Higher technical standards than originally programmed were applied for civil works. The replacement
    of bituminous surface treatment with asphalt concrete surfacing and the addition of a sub-base layer
    should improve durability of the pavement and reduce maintenance costs overtime. The long-term
    preservation of the corridor should also benefit from two favorable natural conditions specific to
    Djibouti: (i) the country's overall low rainfall; and (ii) the strength of the substructure (rocky terrain)
    and availability of good construction material. Based on these factors, the road could have a longer life
    expectancy than the originally estimated period of ten years.
l When the EU-financed rehabilitation of the south corridor through Ali Sabieh is completed in 2009,
    much of the transit traffic to Ethiopia is likely to switch to this new and shorter route between Addis
    Ababa and Djibouti. The present corridor will carry much less heavy traffic and hence will require less
    maintenance. The split of traffic between both corridors will therefore have a positive impact on the
    project's sustainability.
l Although not yet implemented, comprehensive sector reforms have been designed. These reforms
    should lead to better administration, improved maintenance funding, and a more commercial approach
    towards road management with increased private sector participation. These reforms are already
    embodied in the PRSP adopted by the Government in March 2004. Finally, the adoption and efficient
    implementation of reforms in the road sector are set as a condition by the EU for the financing of its
    proposed south corridor rehabilitation project. It may therefore be expected that a reform agenda and
    action plan will soon be agreed upon by the Government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was operational at closing, with all rehabilitation and repair works completed on the corridor in
December 2004. Management and maintenance of the corridor are currently being carried out by the Roads
Directorate (with financing from the Road Maintenance Fund). In the short-term, maintenance operations
will mainly concern those sections of the corridor which were not covered by the project and be limited to
small repair works. In the medium to long-term however, and depending on the overall volume of traffic on
the road, more complex maintenance works will have to be carried out to ensure that the road does not
deteriorate prematurely and continues to provide year-round access to Djibouti Port from Ethiopia.
Different arrangements than those currently in place will therefore have to be adopted. Such arrangements,
which will be part of the overall restructuring of the road sector decided by the Government, are expected
to be finalized shortly and implemented with EU assistance. The Bank's Djibouti Transport Sector Review
issued in June 2005 provided additional recommendations to increase road sector efficiency and implement
necessary reforms.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. Despite the Bank's long
absence from the road sector in Djibouti (the last IDA-project was the Highway Maintenance Project ­
Credit 1303-DJI ­ approved in November 1982 and closed in June 1987), the project team was able to
swiftly identify the sector's needs and respond to the emergency situation brought about by the sudden shift
of Ethiopian trade traffic to Djibouti. The project was prepared quickly (4 months) by an inter-disciplinary
team with skills in road engineering, environment and social development, procurement, financial
management and institutional development. Despite tight deadlines, the team established a participatory
approach for preparation, with all concerned parties invited to comment and make suggestions on the
project.



                                                    - 12 -

Considering the regional dimension of the road corridor and the need for an integrated regional transport
plan, the project team worked from the beginning in close cooperation with the Bank's Ethiopia Transport
Team, and maintained regular contacts with all other donor agencies involved in the region. The prospect of
a comprehensive rehabilitation project financed by an EU grant (as well as the limited borrowing capacities
of the client) shaped the final choice made by the team of temporary and low cost rehabilitation works on
the corridor.

There was a clear understanding by the team of the project risks: limited local capacity and uncertainty
regarding Government commitment to road maintenance. To address these issues, expedite preparation and
fund additional TA activities, the team rightly arranged a PHRD grant.

The only negative aspects that should be noted concern the concession made to the Government to award a
construction contract to the low-performing Régie, which was not consistent with the project's emergency
nature. This was however considered necessary in order to convince the Government to move swiftly with a
project that mainly benefited Ethiopia. Some components were also not adequately designed (axle-load
control system, studies on HIV/AIDS and road safety) and may, in any case, not have been included in
such an emergency operation. Finally, there was some confusion with project performance indicators which
could have been avoided (see Section 8 below). However, the Bank team did include some highly relevant
indicators as part of the list.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project was satisfactory. Intensive supervision was undertaken in the initial stages of the
project to support the PIU and familiarize its staff with Bank procurement and financial management
procedures. To address issues in financial management and procurement, thematic supervision missions
were carried out regularly by Bank staff based in the country office in Sana'a (Yemen). Although three
different task managers were assigned to the project during its lifetime, there was adequate overlap among
them. The Bank showed flexibility and responsiveness to all unexpected events, notably the decision by the
European Union to favor the south corridor for its regional corridor project. Following this, appropriate
and timely measures (supplemental credit, revision of components) were taken to ensure that the project
would achieve its development objective while being consistent with the development of the South Corridor.


Contributions from supervision missions were significant in defining appropriate technical specifications
for civil works, proposing directions for the restructuring and strengthening of the road institutions, and
promoting private participation in the road sector. Coordination was continuous with the European Union
and enabled it to take charge of the institutional agenda after completion of the Bank project. The Bank's
Djibouti TSR also complemented the project's institutional components by providing further analysis and
recommendations for the road sector.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Despite tight deadlines and difficult conditions, the Bank
team developed a balanced project, ensuring that concerned parties within and outside the Bank were
involved. This ensured that the project was in line with the broader transport strategy developed for the
region. During implementation, the team identified issues in time to propose solutions. The Bank's
responsiveness and intensive supervision effort were appreciated by a client who was willing to implement
the IDA-project but had little management capacity.

Borrower



                                                    - 13 -

7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Qualified staff from the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport actively participated in identification and preparation missions. To ensure that
the proposed project would fit with other donors' ongoing or planned road operations, the Government kept
all concerned donors informed and coordinated meetings during Bank missions. Several actions were taken
to prepare for a timely and successful launch of the IDA-project, including the establishment of a Road
Maintenance Fund (in February 2000) to finance all maintenance through a road user fee, and the
strengthening of the roads administration. The Borrower also arranged public consultations in Djibouti and
Dikhil for a large and diverse audience. This enabled promotion of the project and the building of public
consensus. However, the Borrower's reliance on the Régie for the execution of civil works was
counterproductive and unrealistic, given its weak management capacity.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation is considered moderately satisfactory. Initital delays in
procurement of civil works could have been avoided. The Government also did not meet fully its
commitment regarding institutional reforms. Although a framework for the road sector had been clearly
identified in the Letter of Road Sector Policy issued in May 2000 (and attached to the PAD), the
Government somehow delayed the execution of the National Road Strategy Study and public presentation
of the study's results and recommendations. The reform agenda and action plan for the road sector which
were supposed to be adopted during project implementation have not yet been issued but are indirectly
spelled out in the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). During implementation, important
delays were also regularly observed in the Government's provision of counterpart funds and payments to
suppliers. This, however, did not affect the pace of implementation since the Government contribution to
the financing plan was very small.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. Initially the Project Implementation Unit was
understaffed and faced problems using the financial management system and filing bidding documents.
However, after significant staff changes, the PIU was able to operate in compliance with Bank guidelines.
The PIU's manager was highly qualified, with extensive experience in road construction, and took, when
required, appropriate decisions to expedite works on the corridor and adapt to unforeseen events. He was
particularly proactive during the preparation of the National Road Strategy Study, rightly advocating the
role and benefit of the private sector in the management and maintenance of the international corridor and
supporting essential reforms for a sustainable restructuring of the road sector.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, and given the difficult circumstances, Borrower performance is satisfactory. Despite little
acquaintance with Bank's implementation guidelines and recurrent problems with staffing, the Borrower
managed to implement the project as required and with, on the whole, limited delays. The delay noticed in
adopting the reform agenda and action plan for the road sector is a problem, but not sufficient to qualify the
overall performance. It can also be explained by the need to achieve a social consensus within the road
administration and among various stakeholders, as well as to develop a redundancy program for those
workers affected by the planned reforms.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons that can be drawn from the project are:
l Strong reactivity of the Bank.            The project shows the importance of flexibility and timely
    responsiveness to changes in circumstances and clients' needs. In this case, the Bank met the challenge



                                                    - 14 -

  of the project. Although prepared within tight deadlines (4 months), the project provided adequate
  solutions to address the crisis that both Djibouti and Ethiopia were facing at that time. During
  implementation, the Bank reacted well to unexpected events and took all actions (adoption of a
  supplemental credit, revision of the project's components) necessary to secure achievement of the
  project development objective despite the changed situation.

l Need for simple design in emergency operations. Emergency operations should only include those
  critical components needed to respond to the emergency and for which the Borrower has
  implementation capacity. In the case of this project, several components (for axle load control, road
  safety, etc.) could not be adequately prepared and were therefore not implemented. Complex designs,
  although often favored in Bank projects, are not suitable for such emergency operations as they can
  result in implementation delays and/or ultimately in the cancellation/downsizing of some components.


l Need for a good understanding of local capacity. In emergency operations, substantial training
  activities and intensive supervision efforts are required to build capacity and support the Project
  Implementation Units in the initial stages of the project. In this case, it took a while for the PIU to be
  fully established and for the Borrower to reach the necessary implementation capacity.

l Problems with force account units. Force account units should not be given responsibility for major
  civil works, even when construction management services are provided in all stages (from planning to
  maintenance). Bank experience has showed that in developing countries, force account units usually
  have weak capacity and are not cost-effective. The experience of this project confirmed this and also
  showed that, in addition to generating delays in project execution, the construction and supervision
  costs of force account units are likely to be much higher than those of private contractors.

l Difficulty of achieving institutional reforms in emergency operations.           In emergency or similar
  projects, all efforts are usually geared towards a rapid achievement of much-needed physical
  improvements. Institutional reforms are often handled as a second priority by the Borrower as well as
  the Bank. This was particularly true under this project where the problems that initially occurred in the
  execution of civil works hindered the preparation and adoption of a national strategy for the road
  sector. This leads to the conclusion that institutional objectives should not be included in emergency
  operations but rather be part of the policy dialogue with the client country.

l Need for project indicators, along with an adequate monitoring and evaluation system. There was
  some confusion in the selection and definition of outcomes and outputs for the project. The
  performance indicators in the main text of the PAD (chapter A.2) slightly differed from those in Annex
  1 (Project Design Summary). Unnecessary output indicators were also chosen, with limited relevance
  to the project's components. If the Bank rightly considered the shortening of travel time on the corridor
  and reduction in vehicle operating costs as key performance indicators, road safety on the contrary
  should not have been included as a performance indicator since adequate measures (more concrete than
  just launching studies) had not been designed and could not be implemented under the project.
  Indicators that are totally beyond control of the project (such as port traffic) should also not be
  considered. In Djibouti, port traffic is dependent upon the quality of port operations (especially for
  transshipment) and the volume of Ethiopian foreign trade, but has a limited link with road conditions at
  least for as long as Djibouti will be the unique feasible gateway for Ethiopia's foreign trade. Finally,
  for all IDA projects, a sound monitoring system should be implemented beforehand so as to adequately
  evaluate all project indicators during implementation. Since this was not done, some indicators (traffic
  volume, road accident statistics) were not monitored on a regular basis or not at all.



                                                  - 15 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As stated by the borrower in his project assessment report attached in Annex 8, the project was
well-conceived and, at the time it was prepared, responsive to the priorities of the Government of Djibouti.
With all rehabilitation and repair works successfully achieved, the road now provides a much better and
reliable access to the port of Djibouti from the Ethiopian border. As a consequence of the dramatic
reduction in vehicle operating costs and travel time for international truckers, the port's competitive
advantage in the region has been consolidated. For these reasons, the project is considered to have
satisfactorily met its development objective. However, the borrower also notes in his report weaknesses
experienced during project implementation. These concern specifically (i) the weak performance of the
force account unit which delayed civil works implementation and led to additional costs; and (ii) limited
progress achieved so far in strengthening institutional capacity in the road sector.

In his comments on the draft ICR, the borrower noted that the ICR was "an honest report that reflected the
realities of project implementation".

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Undisturbed continuation of, if not growth in, 470 trucks per day on the project road (both   Over 800 trucks per day on the project road
traffic flows for project period on the project directions).                                  (both directions)
road.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Shortening of the travel time between Djibouti Travel time between 3 to 5 hours in 2005.      Travel time of less than 3 hours in 2005
Port and the Ethiopian Border (at Galafi) by
50 percent
Vehicle Operating Costs between Galafi and Total VOC cost per segment: US$282.64 per Total VOC cost per segment: US$184.6 per
Djibouti Port are reduced by 40%                vehicle in 2005                               vehicle in 2005, or 60% lower than at
                                                                                              appraisal
Reduction in road accidents by 35%              No data available                             30 collisions with 7 casualties in the first
                                                                                              semester of 2005
Axle load controls in place                     Axle load controls in place                   No axle load control system in place
Elimination of health problems associated       Problems eliminated with the                  Problems eliminated with the
with dust from truck movements                  rehabilitation/repair of the road using       rehabilitation/repair of the road using asphalt
                                                bituminous surfacing                          concrete
Proper disposal and collection of wastes        Waste materials were properly disposed and Waste materials were properly disposed and
                                                material collection sites were regraded after material collection sites were regraded after
                                                project's completion                          project's completion

1End of project




                                                                    - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate            Estimate           Appraisal
                          Component                                US$ million         US$ million
  Phase I:
(1) Civil Works, Dikhil to Galafi                                     12.00                 13.70                114

(2) Civil Works, Arta to Dikhil                                        2.00                  2.94                147

(3) Spare parts to rehabilitate the Road Department's plant            0.50                  1.39                278
pool

   Phase II:
(4) Routine Maintenance of the Arta Galafi road section                0.50                  0.15                 30

(5) Construction of Axle load control stations                         0.35                  0.00                  0

   Technical Assistance:

 (6) Project Implementation Unit                                       0.25                  0.74                298

 (7) Construction Management and Supervision of works                  1.30                  2.87                221

 (8) Offices, vehicles and laboratory equipment                        0.25                  0.11                 44

 (9) Institutional Development Support                                 0.50                  0.59                118

 (10) Studies on HIV/AIDS and Road Safety                              0.25                  0.00                  0

 (11) Strategy for development of trade related services               0.10                  0.00                  0


Total Baseline Cost                                                   18.00                 22.49
                            Total Project Costs                       18.00                 22.49
                    Total Financing Required                          18.00                 22.49
Note 1: The appraisal estimate includes contingencies but not the expenditures to be financed by the supplemental
credit

Note 2: The actual estimate for Component 2 includes US$0.25 million financed under the IDA-Flood Emergency
Rehabilitation.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                                0.00              8.15              0.00              0.50             8.65
                                      (0.00)             (7.65)            (0.00)             (0.00)         (7.65)



                                                      - 18 -

   2. Goods                                 0.00               5.60               1.45             0.00              7.05
                                           (0.00)             (3.60)             (1.45)           (0.00)             (5.05)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00               2.30             0.00              2.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.30)           (0.00)             (2.30)
       Total                                0.00              13.75               3.75             0.50              18.00
                                           (0.00)            (11.25)             (3.75)           (0.00)            (15.00)


   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 13.54              0.00              3.25             0.00             16.79
                                           (13.54)            (0.00)            (2.80)            (0.00)           (16.34)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.60              0.90             0.00              1.50
                                           (0.00)             (0.60)            (0.90)            (0.00)           (1.50)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              4.20             0.00              4.20
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.20)            (0.00)           (4.20)
       Total                                13.54              0.60              8.35             0.00             22.49
                                           (13.54)            (0.60)            (7.90)            (0.00)           (22.04)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Civil Works between Dikhil      9.65         2.35         0.00       13.25         0.45       0.00       137.3     19.1      0.0
and Galafi
Civil Works between Arta        2.00         0.00         0.00        2.94         0.00       0.00       147.0     0.0       0.0
and Dikhil
Spare Parts for Roads           0.50         0.00         0.00        1.39         0.00       0.00       278.0     0.0       0.0
Department's Plant Pool
Routine Maintenance of          0.00         0.00         0.50        0.15         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
the Arta Galafi road
section
Construction of Axle Load       0.20         0.00         0.15        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Control Stations
Project Implementation          0.25         0.00         0.00        0.74         0.00       0.00       296.0     0.0       0.0
Unit
Construction Management         1.30         0.00         0.00        2.87         0.00       0.00       220.8     0.0       0.0
and Supervision of works
Offices, Vehicles and           0.25         0.00         0.00        0.11         0.00       0.00       44.0      0.0       0.0
Laboratory Equipment
Institutional Development       0.50         0.00         0.00        0.59         0.00       0.00       118.0     0.0       0.0
Support



                                                           - 19 -

HIV/AIDS and Road Safety  0.25   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00  0.0   0.0  0.0
Studies
Strategy for the          0.10   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00  0.0   0.0  0.0
development of
trade-related services
TOTAL                    15.00   2.35   0.65    22.04   0.45   0.00  146.9 19.1 0.0




                                         - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Introduction
1.       The ex-post economic evaluation of the project was carried out based on a re-evaluation of traffic
data, and actual costs and investments realized on the corridor. By way of comparison, separate economic
analyses were undertaken for each of the project's sub-sections. The same methodology as the one
employed in the PAD was used, under which only savings in vehicle operating costs for articulated trucks
were considered for the calculation of the project's economic benefits. The economic analysis naturally
reflects the large changes occurred during project implementation, and notably the important upgrade in
scope of works, as well as the modification or cancellation of some project components. A project life of 10
years was finally considered for the new road, compared to 5 years at appraisal.

2.       This annex is composed of 4 sections. Section 1 presents and compares project costs at appraisal
with actual works expenditure. Section 2 describes and explains the assumptions made in terms of traffic
growth. The third Section provides updated data on vehicle operating costs for Ethiopian trucks, while
Section 4 presents the overall economic evaluation of the project.

1. Costs of the Project

3.       The ex-post economic analysis was done for the two sections that were rehabilitated or repaired
under the project: (i) the 98-km road section between Galafi and Dikhil which received total investments of
about US$13.70 million; and (ii) the 88-km road section between Dikhil and Arta Spur for which repair
and maintenance works amounted to about US$3 million. These last investment costs include the
US$-250.000 co-financing provided by the IDA-Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Credit
39770-DJI) for the reconstruction of two major bridges damaged by heavy floods in April 2004. Routine
maintenance activities conducted under force account (for US$0.15 million) until July 2003 were not
considered for the ex-post economic analysis. Table 1 below presents the PAD estimates for the project and
actual expenditures for road works and investments. The initial economic analysis carried out for the
IDA-project also included costs of about US$1.5 million for maintenance and axle-load monitoring over
three years which are not presented in the table. Such components were indeed ultimately cancelled during
project implementation.

                                  Table 1 - Road Works Investment Costs


       Scenario    Section              Length                    Road Works                    Cost    Cost    Actual /
                                         (km)                                                  (US$ m) (US$/km) Estimated


       PAD        Galafi - Dikhil         102    Full reconstruction of the pavement (new        12.00  117,647         -
       (Estimates)                               crushed base course of 15 cm, placement of
                                                 a 15-cm sub-base layer, and black top of
                                                 DBST)
                   Dikhil - Arta Spur     86     Full reconstruction on 15 km and pothole         2.00   23,256         -
                                                 repair and limited resurfacing on the
                                                 remainder
                  Total                   188                                                    14.00   74,468         -


       ICR        Galafi - Dikhil         98     Complete rehabilitation (asphalt concrete        13.7  139,796     +19%
       (Actual)                                  pavement)
                   Dikhil - Arta Spur     88     Partial rehabilitation on 40 km and pothole      2.95   33,523     +44%
                                                 repair, pavement scarification/ resurfacing,
                                                 reconstruction of bridges on 48 km
                  Total                   186                                                    16.65   89,516     +20%




                                                          - 21 -

4.        The Galafi to Dikhil section was fully rehabilitated with an investment cost of US$139,796 per km
which represents a 19 percent increase in costs compared to the PAD estimates. The road between Dikhil
and Arta Spur received two different types of works: (i) partial rehabilitation with asphalt concrete
pavement on the 40-km section between Dikhil and Ali Sabieh turnoff for a cost per km of US$36,730; and
(ii) pothole repair, reconstruction of bridges, as well as limited pavement scarification and resurfacing, on
the section from Ali Sabieh turnoff to Arta Spur (48 km) for a total cost of US$31,300 per km. For the
whole section between Dikhil and Arta Spur, the average construction costs amounted to US$33,523 per
km, which represents a 44 percent increase compared to the PAD estimates.                                     The project's overall
investment cost, which stands at a bit less than US$90,000 per km, showed a relatively modest increase
(+20 %) compared to the PAD forecast, despite more extensive rehabilitation works carried out.

2. Traffic Analysis and Projections

5.        During project implementation, traffic flows on the international road corridor were never
interrupted. On the contrary, traffic grew at a steady pace, following the end of conflict between Ethiopia
and Eritrea in December 2000. Surveys conducted in November 2003 by an international consulting firm
showed that the average trucks traffic in the corridor was 820 AADT, representing a 74 percent increase
over the PAD forecast.

6.        It should be noticed however that, at appraisal, very conservative assumptions had been taken
regarding traffic growth. At that time, it was indeed assumed traffic would not increase until the fifth year
of the five-year project (corresponding to a worst-case scenario under which the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict
would not end before fall 2005). As a result of the war effort, Ethiopia's foreign trade would remain
stagnant over the project period. In fact, actual average trucks growth rate from 1999 to 2003 was 14.9
percent, as shown in Table 2 below.

                                     Table 2 - Road Sections Traffic Data (AADT)

   Scenario     Section                                    1999                        2003*                   Actual/  Trucks
                                                         Trucks         Cars &        Trucks         Total      Est.   Growth
                                                                         Vans                                            (%)

  PAD          Galafi ­ Dikhil                             470                                                            0
  (Estimates)  Dikhil ­ Arta Spur                          470                                                            0
               Average (entire Corridor)                   470                                                            0

  ICR          Galafi ­ Dikhil                                            140            795          935       1.69     14.0
  (Actual      Dikhil ­ Arta Spur (Average):                              212            844         1055       1.80     15.8
  Traffic)        ? Dikhil ­ Ali Sabieh Spur                              140            795          935
                  ? Ali Sabieh Spur ­ Arta Spur                           283            892         1175
               Average (entire Corridor)                                  176            820          996       1.74     14.9




                      (*) Source: PAD and BCEOM - National Road Strategy Study (draft final report, December 2004)
                                               The 2003 Actual / Estimated ratio is for trucks only.




7.        For the purpose of the economic analysis, the following assumptions were made:

l As no traffic data are available for 2004-2005, it was assumed traffic growth for those specific years
     was identical to the average growth rate (14.9%) reported for the period 1999-2003. For subsequent



                                                              - 22 -

     years (from 2006 to 2010), a lower growth rate (6%) was chosen. This conservative scenario assumes
     some transit traffic will slowly be diverted to the Djibouti-Ethiopia Railway (CDE) which is
     undergoing a major process of modernization and restructuring. No traffic assumptions were made
     regarding the highly unpredictable World Food Program operations in Ethiopia, which were not
     included in the ex-post analysis, as per the original evaluation;
l On the basis of the 2003 survey, it was assumed that almost 75% of freight traffic on the international
     corridor remained concentrated on the north corridor, compared to about 25% for the south corridor
     through Ali Sabieh. Once the EU-project is completed, much of the Ethiopian transit traffic should
     switch to the Southern corridor. However, this is should not occur until 2009. For this reason, it was
     decided under the economic analysis to keep the current traffic shares between both sections of the
     corridor unchanged.
l An average traffic was calculated for the road section between Dikhil and Arta Spur. The volume of
     transit traffic is indeed higher on the section between Ali Sabieh spur and Arta spur (which
     corresponds to the common section of the corridor) than between Ali Sabieh spur and Dikhil (north
     corridor).

3. Economic Benefits

8.         The economic analysis utilizes expected reductions in vehicle operating costs (VOCs) as the
principal economic benefits. VOCs were calculated using the Highway Development and Management
Model (HDM-4) and based on current Ethiopian economic costs and vehicle fleet characteristics. At
appraisal, Ethiopian inputs were preferred over Djibouti economic costs, as transit traffic operations to and
from Ethiopia (which represent 80% of the total volume reported on the corridor) are largely dominated by
Ethiopian trucking companies.

9.         The updated data were directly taken from the economic appraisal of the Combolcha-Gundowein
road carried out by the Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) in December 2004. Such data, which were
calculated on the basis of surveys conducted in Ethiopia by five different international consulting firms, are
presented in Table 3 below.

Table 3 - Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Economic Unit Costs (in US$)

  Vehicle                                     Four-Wheel  Heavy     Articulated
                                           Drive          Truck     Truck
 Economic Unit Costs
 New Vehicle Cost (US$/vehicle)               26,713      77,241    117,011
New Tire Cost (US$/tire)                   70             265       265
Fuel Cost (US$/liter)                      0.32           0.32      0.32
Lubricant Cost (US$/liter)                 1.74           1.74      1.74
Maintenance Labor Cost (US$/hour)          0.71           0.85      0.85
Crew Cost (US$/hour)                       0.74           1.62      2.09
Interest Rate (%)                          12             12        12
 Utilization and Loading
 Kilometers Driven per Year (km)              36,900      51,800    57,400
Hours Driven per Year (hr)                 800            1,500     1,700
Service Life (years)                       13             15        15
 Gross Vehicle Weight (tons)                  1.6         17        50.0

                     Sources: ERA and the World Bank




                                                          - 23 -

10. The resulting total unit vehicle operating costs per vehicle-km and composition, for a road in good
condition (with a roughness of 2.0 IRI), are given in Table 4. For articulated trucks, such costs amount to
approximately US$0.79 per km.

Table 4 - Vehicle Operating Costs Composition, Roughness 2.0 IRI (in US$ per vehicle-km)


Vehicle                                 Four-Wheel           Heavy     Articulated
                                                Drive         Truck         Truck
Fuel and Oil                                   0.034          0.136         0.217
Tires                                          0.005          0.026         0.046
Parts and Labor                                 0.044         0.199         0.336
Depreciation and Interest                       0.067         0.117         0.163
Crew Time                                      0.007          0.019         0.026
Total                                          0.158          0.497         0.787

                    Sources: ERA and the World Bank


11.       Vehicle operating costs vary widely depending on the road condition. The sensitivity of VOCs to
roughness is given in Table 5.

Table 5 - Vehicle Operating Costs - Roughness Sensitivity (in US$ per vehicle-km)

   Roughness           Four-Wheel              Heavy        Articulated
       (IRI)                  Drive            Truck             Truck
         2                   0.158              0.497            0.787
         4                     0.167            0.529            0.839
         6                     0.186            0.585            0.923
         8                     0.209            0.637            1.011
        10                     0.235            0.698            1.110
        12                     0.263            0.767            1.216
        14                     0.290            0.838            1.326
        16                   0.317              0.911            1.437
                              Sources: ERA and the World Bank


4. Economic Analysis

12.       At appraisal, the project was measured against two scenarios of continuous grading and periodic
regraveling of the road (for 5 years and 3 years) instead of the planned rehabilitation, as well as a third
minimal action scenario whereby the road condition would remain as it is with only minimal maintenance
performed on the corridor. Two traffic growth scenarios (high growth and low growth) were also developed
to test the sensitivity of the IRR to these unknown factors. The low-growth scenario comparison with
continuous grading for 5 years was ultimately selected as the most reasonable case. This comparison was
kept in the ex-post economic analysis.

13.       Road characteristics in the project and the without-project alternative. In the without project
alternative described below, it was considered that the 98-km section between Galafi to Dikhil would
receive regular gradings for 5 years, resulting in an average roughness of 8 IRI over the project's
evaluation period. For the Dikhil - Arta Spur section (88 km), the average roughness was considered to be
4.7 IRI taking into account that only 40 km were in poor condition requiring partial rehabilitation. The
average roughness after works was considered, on its side, to be 4 IRI for both sections. It should be noted
that the respective length of both sections is slightly different in the ex-post economic analysis than at
appraisal. After all topographic measurements were made, the length of the road section between Dikhil
and Galafi ended up being 98 km (compared to the initially estimated 102 km), while the length of the road


                                                              - 24 -

between Dikhil and Galafi was a bit longer than expected at 88 km (compared to 86 km). For the whole
corridor, the length difference is limited to 2 km, as shown in Table 1 above.

14..     The ex-post economic analysis was done by first replicating in an Excel model the economic
analysis results obtained on the PAD for the preferred scenario and then by updating the economic
evaluation model with actual investment costs and traffic growth rate reported for heavy trucks. Cars
passenger's benefits were not included in the ex-post economic evaluation to maintain the same
conservative assumptions as the ones taken in the PAD. In the same context, travel time savings were not
considered in the calculation of economic benefits.

15.      The table below presents the results of the ex-post economic analysis and compares these results
with the PAD economic analysis results under the scenario of low traffic growth and gradings for five years
on the without project alternative.

                                Table 6 - Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Summary

    Scenario                Section                     Length         Cost         Total Cost         Trucks      ERR
                                                          (km)       (US$/km)          (US$)        Growth (%)     (%)


    PAD                     Galafi - Dikhil               102         117,647          12.00               0
    (Estimates)             Dikhil - Arta Spur             86         23,256           2.00                0
                            Total Corridor                188         74,468           14.00               0       31*


    ICR                     Galafi - Dikhil                98         139,796          13.70             14.0      41
    (Actual Traffic)        Dikhil - Arta Spur             88         33,523           2.95              15.8      44
                            Total Corridor                186         89,516           16.65             14.9      42




                     (*) Including costs of $1.5 million for maintenance and axle-load monitoring over 3 years.

16.      The ex-post economic analysis indicates that the project economic rate of return is 42% that is
34% higher than what was estimated at appraisal (31% ERR). The economic rate of return increased due
to the fact that the increase in investment costs was fully compensated by the increase in traffic, yielding a
robust economic justification of the project.




                                                                   - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1999                   1    Sector Manager (1)
              02/2000                   3    Highway Engineer (1); Transport
                                             Economist (1); Environmental
                                             Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/2000                   5    Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Transport Economist (1);
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1); Road and
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Institutional Specialist (1)
              05/2000                   9    Sector Manager (1); Highway
                                             Engineer (1); Transport
                                             Economist (1); Legal Counsel
                                             (1); Operations Officer (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             Language Team Assistant (1);
                                             Program Assistant (1)

 Supervision

              10/2000                   2    Highway Engineer (1);               S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              07/2001                   1    Highway Engineer (1)                S               S
              10/2001                   2    Highway Engineer (1);               U               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
              02/2002                   3    Transport Economist (1);            U               S
                                             Transport Engineer (1); Highway
                                             Engineer (1)
              10/2002                   3    Transport Economist (1);            S               S
                                             Institutional/Environmental
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              05/2003                   2    Transport Economist (1);            S               S
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1)
              09/2003                   4    Transport Economist (1);            S               S
                                             Transport Engineer (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1); FMS
                                             (1)
              04/2004                   1    Transport Engineer (1)              S               S
              09/2004                   3    Transport Economists (2);           S               S
                                             Transport Specialist (1)
              02/2005                   1    Transport Specialist (1)            S               S




                                              - 26 -

 ICR
               10/2005                1     Transport Specialist (1)           S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               14                           69.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    16                         134.7
  Supervision                              68                         314.4
  ICR                                       2                            8.4
  Total                                  100                          526.5




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document (International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project),
  Report No. 20365-DJI, June 1, 2000
l The World Bank, Development Credit Agreement (International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project),
  Credit No. 3391-DJI, June 30, 2000
l The World Bank, Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement (International Road Corridor
  Rehabilitation Project), Credit No. 3391-DJI, May 20, 2003
l The World Bank, Proposed Supplemental Credit (International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project),
  Report No. P7582-DJI, April 2, 2003
l The World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the
  Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Djibouti, Report No.
  21414-DJI, February 8, 2001
l The World Bank, Republic of Djibouti - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint Staff Assessment,
  Report No. 28922-DJI, May 12, 2004
l The World Bank, Project Supervision Reports and Aide-Mémoires for the International Road Corridor
  Rehabilitation Project, July 2001 to February 2005
l The World Bank, Republic of Djibouti - Transport Sector Review, Report No. 32575-DJI. June 23,
  2005
l The World Bank, Guidelines for Preparing ICRs, December 24, 2003
l BCEOM, Etude de la Stratégie Nationale du Secteur Routier à Djibouti (Draft Final Report),
  September 29, 2004
l Government of Djibouti, Ministère de l'Equipement et des Transports, Rapport d'Achèvement de
  l'Emprunteur, July 2005
l Government of Djibouti, Ministère de l'Equipement et des Transports - Bureau d'Exécution du Projet,
  Rapport Bilan, September 2005
l Government of Djibouti, Ministère de la Défense ­ Gendarmerie Nationale ­ Unité Sécurité Routière,
  Bilan d'activités sur la Route Nationale 1, Tableau des statistiques des accidents, Report No.
  22/4/USR, July 19, 2005
l Port Autonome International de Djibouti, Port Statistics, October 2005-11-14.




                                                - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Contribution


                            REPUBLIQUE DE DJIBOUTI
                               Unité - Egalité - Paix




             MINISTERE DE L'EQUIPEMENT ET DES TRANSPORTS




                  PROJET DE REHABILITATION DU CORRIDOR
                           ROUTIER INTERNATIONAL




  RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE L'EMPRUNTEUR




                                         JUILLET 2005




                                        - 31 -

                                   TABLE DES MATIERES

1. OBJECTIFS ET COMPOSANTES DU PROJET

1.1 Objectif original
1.2 Composantes originales
1.3 Composantes révisées

2. RÉALISATION DES OBJECTIFS ET RÉSULTATS
2.1 Résultat des objectifs
2.2 Résultats par composantes
2.3 Impact en termes de développement institutionnel

3. VIABILITE
3.1 Justification du classement de la viabilité
3.2 Modalité de transition aux opérations régulières viabilité

4. PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE ET DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
4.1 Performance de la Banque
4.1.1 Opération de prêt
4.1.2 Supervision
4.1.3 Performance globale de la Banque

4.2 Performance de l'Emprunteur
4.2.1 Préparation
4.2.2 Performance de l'exécution par le Gouvernement
4.2.3 Agence d'exécution
4.2.4 Performance global de l'Emprunteur




                                               - 32 -

1.       OBJECTIFS ET COMPOSANTES DU PROJET

1.1      Objectif original

Le secteur des transports représente près de 25 % du PIB djiboutien et la majorité des transports
de marchandises arrivant par la mer et destinées à l'Ethiopie utilisent le réseau routier. Le secteur
routier est donc vital pour assurer le développement économique et commercial du pays. À
l'époque où ce projet a été identifié, la Banque mondiale n'avait pas participé depuis plusieurs
années à des projets du secteur routier en République de Djibouti (le seul projet était le Projet
d'Entretien Routier - Crédit IDA 1303-DJI approuvé en novembre 1982). Le débat sur la politique
sectorielle portait, au moment de la préparation du projet, sur la gestion du secteur public et,
notamment, la décentralisation des responsabilités, les réformes budgétaires, le développement de
la participation du secteur privé et l'amélioration de la sécurité routière. Le Bureau d'Exécution du
Projet (BEP), qui dépend du Ministère de l'Equipement et des Transports (MET), était chargée de
l'exécution du projet.

L'objectif d'origine du Projet de Réhabilitation du Corridor Routier International était
l'amélioration de l'accès routier au Port de Djibouti par la réhabilitation de la route et des activités
de service qui en dépendent du Port à la frontière Djibouto-Ethiopienne. Le rapport d'évaluation
clarifie cet objectif en précisant que l'objectif du Projet est d'assurer à moyen-terme un niveau de
service acceptable sur la route Djibouti-Galafi, qui constitue le corridor de transit du Port de
Djibouti vers l'Ethiopie, pendant la période où un schéma d'amélioration à long-terme du corridor
sera développé et exécuté par les gouvernements djiboutien et éthiopien avec l'assistance de
l'Union Européenne.

Les équipes de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur ont constamment tenu compte de cet objectif au
cours de l'exécution. Il a aussi été possible d'ajuster les termes de l'objectif de développement en
cours d'exécution du projet. En effet, à la suite de la mission de supervision de la Banque en
octobre 2002, le projet a été révisé et le prêt a été amendé : des mesures nécessaires pour arrêter
la dégradation accélérée du tronçon Arta - Dikhil ont été prises afin d'assurer des conditions
acceptables de circulation sur la partie djiboutienne du Corridor international, jusqu'à la mise en
place du projet de réhabilitation complète du Corridor Addis Abeba - Djibouti sur financement de
l'Union Européenne.

Le Conseil d'administration de la Banque a approuvé le 6 mai 2003 un crédit supplémentaire de 6
millions de US dollars

1.2      Composantes originales

Le projet comprenait les onze composantes suivantes :

Phase 1 : (1) les travaux de réhabilitation du tronçon Dikhil - Galafi (12,00 millions USD soit
66,7 % des coûts totaux du projet) ; (2) les travaux de réhabilitation tronçon Arta - Dikhil (2,00
millions USD soit 11, 1 % des coûts totaux du projet) ; (3) la fourniture de pièces de rechange



                                                  - 33 -

pour la réhabilitation du parc des engins de la Direction des TP (0,50 millions USD soit 2,8 % des
coûts totaux du projet) ;

Phase Il : (4) Entretien courant du tronçon branchement Arta - Galafi (0,50 millions USD soit 2,8
% des coûts totaux du projet) ; (5) Construction des stations de pesage (0,35 millions USD soit
1,9 % des coûts totaux du projet) ;
Assistance technique: (6) Bureau d'Exécution du Projet (0,25 millions USD soit 1,4 % des coûts
totaux du projet) ; (7) Gestion et surveillance des travaux (1,30 millions USD soit 7,2 % des coûts
totaux du projet) ;(8) Bureaux/Equipement liés à la gestion et surveillance des travaux (0,25
millions USD soit 1,4 % des coûts totaux du projet) ; (9) Appui au développement institutionnel
(0,50 millions USD soit 2,8 % des coûts totaux du projet) ; (10) études sur le VIH/SIDA et
sécurité routière (0,25 millions USD soit 1,4 % des coûts totaux du projet) ; et (11) Stratégie
pour le développement des activités liées au transit et commerce international (0,10 millions USD
soit 0,6 % des coûts totaux du projet).

1.3           Composantes révisées

Le projet tablait sur une exécution de la phase 1 au cours de la première année. Ensuite la phase Il
viendrait logiquement après pour assurer le maintien de la route dans de bonnes conditions. Le
démarrage des travaux a cependant pris du retard à cause des retards dans l'attribution des
contrats de travaux. En même temps, l'étude menée par l'Union Européenne pour le choix du
corridor Djibouti - Addis a recommandé le choix du tracé Djibouti -Dikhil - Ali-Sabieh - Addis en
passant par Diré - Dawa. Le Gouvernement et la Banque se sont entendus pour réajuster certaines
composantes du projet. Ainsi, la nature des travaux de la composante 1 a été changée pour faire
une réhabilitation plus durable. La nature des travaux de la composante 2 a pour sa part été
changée pour effectuer une réparation plus globale. Ces deux changements ont nécessité un Crédit
supplémentaire de 6 millions de dollars qui a été approuvé par la Banque le 6 mai 2003 et mis en
vigueur le 3 octobre 2003.

Le Projet et le crédit ont donc été amendés à deux reprises et le crédit a été prolongé de huit mois
pour permettre l'achèvement de la composante 1. Une première révision a été effectuée en mars
2002 qui prenait en compte les importantes économies réalisées sur les coûts de la composante 2
(Travaux de réhabilitation tronçon Arta - Dikhîl). Le montant du crédit alloué originalement à la
composante 1 (Travaux de réhabilitation du tronçon Dikhil - Galafi) de US$ 9,65 millions a été
augmenté à US$ 11,5 millions suite aux réductions dans la composante 2.

Avec ce deuxième amendement les composantes et les montants du projet se répartissaient comme
suit à la clôture :




                                                - 34 -

                   Coûts par composante                          A l'évaluation     A l'achèvement    Ecart par
                                                                                                      rapport à
                                                                                                    l'évaluation
                                                                          en millions de DJF             %

  1 - Travaux de réhabilitation du tronçon Dikhil - Galafi             2136,00             2438,97          14%
  2 - Travaux de réhabilitation du tronçon Carrefour d'Arta -
  Dikhil                                                                356,00              479,29          35%

  3 - Remise en état du matériel de la Régie (Parc à matériel
  DTP)                                                                   89,00              247,48         178%

  4 - Entretien courant du tronçon carrefour Arta - Galafi               89,00               26,66          -70%
  5 - Construction des stations de pesage                                62,30                0,00        -100%
  6 - Fonctionnement du Bureau d'exécution du Projet                     44,50              132,40         198%
  7 - Gestion et surveillance des travaux                               231,40              510,37         121%
  8 - Fourniture de bureau et équipements                                44,50               18,83          -58%
  9 - Appui au développement institutionnel                              89,00              104,49          17%
  10 - Etude sur le HIV/SIDA et la Sécurité Routière                     44,50                0,00        -100%
  11 - Etude sur le développement des rapports
  commerciaux                                                            17,80                0,00        -100%

  COUT TOTAL DU PROJET                                                 3204,00             3968,49          24%




2.       RÉALISATION DES OBJECTIFS ET RÉSULTATS

2.1      Résultat des objectifs

Dans l'ensemble, le projet a atteint ses objectifs et le résultat est jugé satisfaisant.

L'objectif du projet tel qu'énoncé par l'Accord de Crédit est d'améliorer l'accès routier au Port de
Djibouti par la réhabilitation de la route et de l'infrastructure qui lui est associée du Port à la
frontière avec l'Ethiopie. Cet objectif est atteint avec l'achèvement des travaux sur le tronçon
Dikhil-Galafi.

Les 221 km entre Djibouti et Galafi peuvent maintenant être parcourus sur une route entièrement
bitumée en moins de 3 heures, à comparer avec 6 à 7 heures au début du projet voire 10 heures
pour les poids lourds. Les coûts d'exploitation des véhicules se sont nettement réduits et
l'attractivité du Port de Djibouti pour le commerce extérieur de l'Ethiopie s'est clairement
améliorée. Le problème de poussière qui a affecté la qualité de vie des riverains et des usagers de
la route a complètement disparu. Le moment actuel marque l'atteinte de l'objectif principal du
projet. Néanmoins, l'avancement de la dégradation du tronçon Arta - Dikhil menace cet acquis.

2.2            Résultats par composantes

Le projet a dépassé dans l'ensemble ses objectifs physiques prévus. Notamment :

Composante 1 - Travaux de réhabilitation du tronçon Dikhil - Galafi sur les lots 3, 4 et 5: Ces
travaux qui concernaient 98 km ont été achevés depuis la mi-octobre 2003. Ils ont été réalisés par



                                                          - 35 -

l'entreprise privée pour les lots 3, 4 et 5 (82 km) et par la Régie pour le lot 2 (16 km). Selon la
conception initiale du projet, le lot 2 aurait dû être réalisé en totalité par la Régie. Cependant, à
cause du manque de capacité de la Régie, ce lot a finalement connu l'intervention de cinq parties
différentes : (i) la brigade de la Régie de l'Etat, pour la mise en oeuvre de 25% de la couche de
fondation, 75% de la couche de base et la totalité de la production de la grave concassée pour la
couche de base, la totalité des radiers et de la réparation des têtes d'ouvrages hydrauliques (buses
et dalots) ; (ii) l'entreprise VERZI, pour 75 % de la couche de fondation et 25% de la couche de
base; (iii) l'entreprise HAWK International, pour la couche de roulement en béton bitumineux et
les signalisations horizontale et verticale ; (iv) le bureau d'études BCEOM pour la gestion
(construction management) des travaux de ce lot et (v) le bureau d'études SCET Tunisie pour le
contrôle des travaux. L'analyse des dépenses sur ce tronçon a démontré que le coût moyen par
kilomètre de route était pratiquement le double du coût moyen des lots 3, 4 et 5 pour une route
ayant les mêmes caractéristiques.

Composante 2 - Travaux de réhabilitation du tronçon Carrefour d'Arta - Dikhil (85 km) : Ces
travaux consistaient en : (i) la réparation de la section entre le carrefour d'Arta et le carrefour d'Ali
Sabieh, avec réparation des nids de poule et des épaufrures de bords de chaussée, scarification de
la chaussée en pleine largeur et revêtement superficiel sur des courtes sections fortement
dégradées ; et (ii) la réhabilitation partielle de la section entre le carrefour d'Ali Sabieh et Dikhil,
avec réalisation d'une couche de roulement en béton bitumineux sur l'ensemble de la section. Des
travaux supplémentaires relatif à la réparation et au confortement d'ouvrages hydrauliques et de
radiers endommagés lors des inondations du mois d'avril 2004 avaient également été inclus et ont
fait l'objet d'un avenant au contrat de l'entreprise. Tous les travaux prévus sur la section entre le
carrefour d'Ali Sabieh et Dikhil avaient été réalisés de manière très satisfaisante. Par contre
certaines parties de la section entre les carrefours d'Arta et d'Ali Sabieh qui n'avaient pas pu être
réparées dans le cadre du projet ont souffert des fortes pluies du mois de décembre 2004.

Composante 4 - Entretien courant du tronçon carrefour Arta - Galafi: La brigade de la régie a
effectué quelques actions limités d'entretien courant sur ce tronçon jusqu'à fin juin 2003, en
utilisant des matériaux payés par le Projet. Cette composante a effectivement été remplacée par
les travaux de réparation de ce tronçon qui ont été financés sur le crédit supplémentaire (voir
composante 2).

Composante 5 - Construction des stations de pesage: L'exécution de cette composante 5 a été
annulée pour cinq raisons : (i) étant donnée l'augmentation importante des coûts pour les travaux
de réhabilitation du tronçon Dikhil - Galafi, il a été nécessaire de réallouer les ressources de cette
composante à la composante 1 ; (ii) la situation actuelle institutionnelle dans le secteur routier
rend improbable que l'opération des stations de pesage pourrait être faite d'une manière efficiente ;
(iii) la législation actuellement en vigueur ne permet pas une fiscalisation et verbalisation efficace
des infractions ; (iv) l'introduction du système de pesage requiert des accords opérationnels tant
avec les autorités éthiopiennes qu'avec l'administration du port de Djibouti et (v) la capacité des
stations simples de pesage prévues est complètement insuffisante pour le trafic très important de
camions lourds sur la route (plus de 500 camions par jour et par direction).




                                                  - 36 -

Composante 7 - Gestion et surveillance des travaux: La gestion et la surveillance des travaux ont
été assuré respectivement par le BCEOM et la SCET Tunisie. Dans l'ensemble, les services
fournis par ces bureaux sont jugés satisfaisants L'équipe du bureau BCEOM a été mise en place
en avril 2001. Une modification de l'équipe a été introduite pour mieux prendre en compte les
besoins réels, et un avenant au contrat a été signé. Selon la conception du projet, l'équipe
BCEOM est essentiellement liée à l'organisation initiale de tous les travaux, tant de la Régie que
de l'entreprise, et à la gestion des travaux par Régie. La date d'achèvement des prestations du
bureau BCEOM a été le 30 novembre 2003. L'équipe du bureau SCET Tunisie chargée de la
supervision des travaux a été mise en place en janvier 2002. Le marché initial de SCET prévoyait
leur présence à Djibouti pour une période de 11,5 mois. Les prestations additionnelles non prévus
dans les TdR initiales ont exigé un avenant au contrat initial. La date d'achèvement des prestations
du bureau SCET Tunisie a été le 31 décembre 2004.

Composante 9 - Appui au développement institutionnel (Stratégie du secteur routier à Djibouti)
Le bureau BCEOM a été retenu pour exécuter l'étude de la stratégie du secteur routier. Le
déroulement de l'étude a accusé un retard d'au moins trois mois par rapport au calendrier
initialement prévu. Ce retard est en partie dû à un retard d'environ un mois dans la remise du
rapport initial par le consultant combiné au retard dans la dissémination de ce rapport et la
réception des commentaires des acteurs concernés. Les membres du Comité de Pilotage ont été
désignés, et le comité a tenu sa première séance de travail le 8 avril 2004. L'Atelier de validation
de l'étude a été organisé le 16/02/2005. Les orientations retenues sont les suivantes : (i) nécessité
de pérenniser les investissements réalisés sur le réseau routier et donc développement d'une
nouvelle stratégie afin de rationaliser et de tirer au mieux parti des différentes ressources
disponibles pour l'entretien routier; (ii) les différentes entités publiques oeuvrant actuellement dans
le secteur routier seront regroupées au sein d'une même institution ayant tutelle sur l'ensemble du
secteur et (iii) la stratégie finale adoptée par le Gouvernement, basée sur un plan d'action et un
calendrier de réalisation propres, ainsi que les moyens nécessaires pour la mettre en oeuvre, seront
présentés aux institutions financières internationales au cours d'une table ronde.

Composante 10 - Définition et mise en place des mesures de Sécurité Routière et de protection
contre le HIVISIDA: L'envergure de cette composante (VIH/SIDA) a été réduite. Le BEP a
engagé l'ONG ADER (Association pour le Développement Régional) au mois de janvier 2003 qui
a développé et exécuté un programme de sensibilisation et de prévention de l'épidémie VIH/SIDA
en faveur des travailleurs des chantiers de construction de l'entreprise HAWK et de la Régie, et
des communautés locales.

Composante 11 - Stratégie pour le développement des activités liées au transit et au commerce
international: Une activité plus ou moins identique à celle prévue dans le projet a été exécutée sur
financement de la Coopération Française. Il a donc été décidé d'éliminer cette composante.




                                                   - 37 -

2.3          Impact en termes de développement institutionnel

Le renforcement des capacités de la Régie de la DTP est une sous composante du projet (travaux
en régie d'un tronçon de 16 km). Il est relatif à la mise à disposition d'une assistance technique et à
l'apport d'appui matériel afin qu'elle puisse assurer une bonne exécution de ses tâches.

A travers ces activités, le projet devrait améliorer l'efficacité du service concerné en le dotant des
compétences en ressources humaines capables de bien exécuter les actions, des outils/méthodes
appropriés pour mener à bien les travaux et en les munissant de matériel adéquat.

Compte tenu des nombreuses faiblesses observées au plan des capacités d'intervention de la Régie
de la DTP et des efforts très insuffisants constatés dans la mise en oeuvre des activités, l'impact du
projet sur l'aspect renforcement institutionnel est peu significatif. L'analyse des aspects suivants
confirme ce constat.

L'intervention du projet n'a pas modifié le système de gestion de l'entretien routier qui, de fait, ne
s'opère qu'en régie.

3.       VIABILITE

3.1          Justification du classement de la viabilité

Le classement de la viabilité donné au projet est probable. Toutes les composantes du projet ont
été exécutées (hormis les composantes 5 et 11 - voir chapitre 2.2) et les objectifs atteints. Les
principales composantes du projet ont été réalisées plus ou moins dans les délais. L'étude
stratégique sur le secteur routier entreprise dans le cadre du projet, avait déjà fait des
recommandations quant aux principaux choix et orientations stratégiques sur lesquels la future
stratégie routière reposera.

La viabilité des réalisations exécutées dans le cadre de ce projet pourrait être mise en question si
un modèle adéquat pour la gestion et l'entretien de la route du corridor international, pour éviter
un retour rapide aux conditions désastreuses qui ont prévalu tout au long de ces dernières années
n'est pas mis en place très rapidement. Cependant, les principales recommandations de l'étude de
la stratégie routière devraient conduire à l'adoption d'une solution durable dans ce sens qui doit
éviter un nouveau recours à l'endettement public pour reconstruire dans l'avenir un corridor détruit
par manque d'entretien.

3.2         Modalité de transition aux opérations régulières viabilité

La plupart des réalisations sont déjà intégrées dans les opérations courantes de Direction de
l'Equipement, ce qui minimise le besoin d'arrangements particuliers pour la transition aux
opérations régulières.




                                                 - 38 -

4.      PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE ET DE LEMPRUNTEUR

4.1         Performance de la Banque

4.1.1      Opération de prêt

La performance de la Banque au cours de la préparation est jugée dans l'ensemble satisfaisante. Il
faut reconnaître que l'équipe de la Banque a identifié un projet très pertinent, qu'elle a bien
structuré les composantes "lourdes" du projet et qu'elle a réussi à maintenir le cap vers les
objectifs d'un projet dont la conception est restée relativement simple. L'accent mis sur la viabilité
de l'investissement, l'utilisation de capacité locale, la structure de la mise en oeuvre, la
récupération des coûts de l'investissement à partir des bénéficiaires qui étaient des éléments clés
des échanges de vues sur le projet ont aussi fait partie des éléments clés de la préparation du
projet.

4.1.2       Supervision

La performance de supervision de la Banque est jugée satisfaisante dans l'ensemble. La notation
positive se fonde sur: (i) des missions régulièrement effectuées sur le terrain, avec une équipe
suffisante et des rapports bien préparés ; (ii) les problèmes ont été identifiés en amont et ont été
discutés avec le BEP ; (iii) les missions de la Banque ont été généralement réactives. Des équipes
très complètes ont participé à l'opération de prêt et la supervision, avec de nombreux membres qui
ont été maintenus tout au long de la durée du projet. Les missions de supervision comportaient
l'expertise requise et des cadres qui ont constamment suivi les activités du projet. La Banque a
également été flexible en ajustant les composantes du projet à l'évolution de son environnement.
La multidisciplinarité des équipes de la Banque constituait un atout essentiel ; le projet a bénéficié
amplement de la logistique arrière de la banque en documentation et en conseil. Les différents
aide-mémoire des missions constituaient ainsi le guide des actions de suivi.

4.1.3        Performance globale de la Banque

Dans l'ensemble, la performance de ta Banque est jugée satisfaisante. Les résultats positifs du
projet, son exécution rapide, les progrès satisfaisants sur la stratégie du secteur routier,
témoignent de la pertinence du projet et du travail de qualité fourni par les équipes de préparation
et de supervision de la Banque.

4.2        Performance de l'Emprunteur

4.2.1      Préparation

La performance de l'Emprunteur au cours de la préparation du projet est jugée satisfaisante. Une
équipe compétente a été désignée pour préparer le projet, une lettre de politique de
développement a été préparée et une analyse de la principale composante du projet a été réalisée.
Le Gouvernement a travaillé en étroite collaboration avec la Banque pour préparer le projet. La



                                                 - 39 -

taille et la portée du projet ont changé maintes fois durant la préparation, jusqu'à ce que le
montage définitif soit convenu.

4.2.2        Performance de l'exécution par le Gouvernement

La performance de l'Emprunteur pendant l'exécution du projet est jugée satisfaisante, mais
modérément. Le Gouvernement a tardé à commencer l'exécution des actions institutionnelles. Les
membres du Comité de Pilotage pour l'étude sur la stratégie routière devaient être désigné et la
liste soumise à la Banque au plus tard en juillet 2003, mais ce comité n'a tenu sa première séance
de travail que le 8 avril 2004 soit avec une année de retard et il a encore fallu une année
supplémentaire pour organiser l'Atelier de validation de l'étude sur la stratégie routière. Toutefois,
les orientations retenues par le Gouvernement, notamment la volonté de recentrer les missions de
l'Etat dans le secteur routier sur ses fonctions régaliennes et celle de créer une unique agence des
routes, sont aujourd'hui bien acceptées.

4.2.3        Agence d'exécution

La performance de l'agence d'exécution est satisfaisante, sous quelques réserves. L'exécution
rapide des composantes physiques du projet fait partie des aspects positifs. Les travaux étaient de
bonne qualité, les contrats ont été passés en suivant des règles et des normes conformes et ont été
bien supervisés. L'Etude sur la stratégie nationale du secteur routier et la composante « Travaux
de réparation et de réhabilitation partielle sur le tronçon carrefour d'Arta - Dikhil » ont finalement
été exécutées, bien qu'avec des retards. L'étude a été dans l'ensemble de bonne qualité et utile. La
composante « Travaux de réparation et de réhabilitation partielle sur le tronçon carrefour d'Arta -
Dikhil » a été particulièrement bien conçue et complète.

4.2.4       Performance globale de l'Emprunteur

En fonction de ce qui précède, la performance de l'Emprunteur est jugée satisfaisante. Les
interventions du gouvernement et de l'agence d'exécution ont été déterminantes pour mener à bien
les objectifs du projet bien qu'elles aient été plus lentes que ce qui avait été initialement convenu.




                                                  - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. Additional Information : Photos of the Project (Before and After
situation)




                                         - 41 -

   Condition of the International Road Corridor (Dikhil ­ Galafi Section)




Before                                                    After




Before                                                    After




Before                                                    After




                          - 42 -

Before                                                After


         Dust Problems (Dikhil ­ Galafi Section)




Before                                                After


          Oil Pollution Problems (before the Project)




                            - 43 -

                      Parking Spaces for Trucks (outside Djibouti Ville)




                  Before                                                    After


                 Signalization on the International Road Corridor (after the Project)




Important Notice: "Before" and "After" Photos may not have been taken at the exact same location on the
road.




                                                 - 44 -

- 45 -

