Report No. PID8965
Project Name                             Djibouti - International Road Corridor (@)
Rehabilitation Credit
Region                                   Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                                   Highways; Other Transportation
Supplemental Project ID                  P069930
Borrower(s)                              GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORT
MinistOre de l'Equipement et des Transports,
Bureau d'Execution du Projet
B.P. 2501, Republique de Djibouti
Contact Person: Mr. Mohamed Ali Hassan
Directeur du Projet
Tel: 253 - 251200
Fax: 253 - 251201
Environment Category                     B
Date initial PID Prepared                April 24, 2000
Appraisal Date of ongoing project        April 14, 2000
Board Date of ongoing project            June 22, 2000
Date this PID prepared                   March 3, 2003
Appraisal Date of supplemental           January 27, 2003
Projected Board Date                     April 10, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Following the deterioration of relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998, Djibouti
has served as the primary transit port for landlocked Ethiopia. The port of Assab, on the
Eritrean coast, formerly played this role, first as part of Ethiopia, and then under an
agreement between Ethiopia and Eritrea following Eritrean independence in 1991. The road
corridor between Addis Ababa and Assab, which passes some 20 km from the Djibouti border,
was upgraded and improved for that purpose. With the sudden shift of Ethiopian traffic to
Djibouti port in 1998, the 20-year old road connection between Djibouti port and the
Addis-Assab road (via Dikhil and Galafi) received a very high level of traffic of heavy
vehicles (roughly 700 trucks per day) it was not in a condition to carry. While the
Ethiopian Road Authority upgraded the 20-km spur road up to the Djibouti border at the
town of Galafi, the 221-km highway between Djibouti port and Galafi deteriorated steadily
as a result of heavy traffic and inadequate maintenance. The European Union agreed in
principle to finance a major upgrading project for the Djibouti-Addis transport corridor,
but it was clear that this project would not materialize for a number of years. In 2000,
a rapid emergency solution had to be found in order to assure that Ethiopia's maritime
trade would not be severely disrupted. A particular threat existed (and continues to
exist) for the massive shipments of emergency food aid to millions of starving Ethiopians
for who the Djibouti-Galafi road is virtually their lifeline. In response, and based on a
request from the Government of Djibouti, IDA prepared the ongoing International Road
Corridor Rehabilitation Project as an emergency operation. In a broader context, the port



of Djibouti is by far the country's most important economic activity, and in the medium
and long term, the port's ability to compete with other ports depends on a good road
connection with its hinterland, including Ethiopia.
Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank's first CAS for Djibouti was approved in December
2000 and covers FY 2001-2003. It was formulated in the dual context of enormous economic
difficulties and deepening poverty, and a new commitment by the Government to address
them. Djibouti's main challenge is reversing the trend of declining per capita incomes
and improving the country's low social indicators -- school enrolment, maternal and infant
mortality, and morbidity. The main constraints facing Djibouti are poor physical and
human resource base, in addition to the constraints and vulnerabilities common to most
small states-- vulnerability to external developments, limited scope for diversification,
and limited scope for competition and economies of scale. The CAS recognizes that
Djibouti's most important asset is its port and strategic location. It states that the
four-fold increase in port traffic since mid-1998, derived from the conflict between
Ethiopia and Eritrea, has opened new, as yet not fully exploited, opportunities for
investment and growth. Djibouti's open economic policies with liberal trade and exchange
system, which is free of capital or exchange restrictions, and relative stability should
help in that effort.    The CAS focused on two areas.   First, direct interventions to
reduce poverty, through (i) reversing the low educational enrolment rates; (ii) addressing
health needs, particularly, the epidemic incidence of HIV/AIDS, and tuberculosis; and
(iii) preparing targeted assistance programs to minimize the impact of adjustment.
Second, the CAS proposed measures to provide growth and employment generation, supported
through structural reforms to restore competitiveness and private investments, and to
develop port infrastructure services for participation in the increased regional transit.
2. Objectives of the project
The ongoing International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project was approved on June 22,
2000 and became effective in December 2000. The objective of the Project is to secure in
the medium-term, an acceptable level of service on the Djibouti-Galafi Road, which
constitutes Djibouti port's transit corridor to Ethiopia, during the period when a
long-term transport corridor improvement scheme is being developed and implemented by the
Ethiopian and Djibouti governments, with assistance from the European Union. The IDA
credit of US$ 15.0 million equivalent mainly finances physical road works, although
institutional strengthening activities are also included. The original intention was to
carry out limited and low-cost emergency works, simply to make the road "survive" until
the EU-financed corridor project is implemented. Current closing date is December 31,
2004.
The objectives of the supplemental operation are the same as those of the ongoing project.
The proposed supplemental credit will finance exclusively a cost overrun for physical
works on the Djibouti - Galafi road. Other parts of the project will not be affected in
any way. The reason for the cost overrun is closely related to changes in the scope and
timing of the proposed EU-financed project to upgrade the Addis - Djibouti corridor.
Current closing date will not be affected by the supplemental credit.
3. Description
The ongoing project components can be separated into two groups depending on the
implementation phase: (1) urgent, quick rehabilitation and repairs of the road between the
Arta turnoff and Galafi, on the Ethiopian border (first year); and (2) subsequent
maintenance of the road, construction of axle load control stations (second, third, and
fourth year), and technical assistance (TA) to support, institutional development in
various aspects of road maintenance, the transport sector and port/trade related economic
- 2 -



development. Phase I would have the following main sub- components: (a) a low cost
temporary improvement of the National Road #1, between Dikhil and Galafi (100 km); (b)
repairs of National Road #1, between the turnoff to Arta and Dikhil (88 km); and (c)
procurement of spare parts to make operational the usable parts of the Road Department's
plant pool. Phase II would have the following components: (a) routine maintenance of Arta
to Dikhil and Dikhil to Galafi sections of National Road #1 for a period of 3 years, after
the improvement and repair works have been completed; and (b) construction of axle load
control stations and procurement of related equipment. The TA components include services
to support the establishment of a Project Implementing Unit (PIU), provide support for
institutional changes in the sector, facilitate the development of trade related services
in Djibouti, undertake an HIV/AIDS outreach program and road safety study, and assist the
Government in undertaking the project within a very short time frame. If practical and
with the understanding of the EC Delegation and the Government, the project would also
implement agreed policy and institutional recommendations of the EU financed study.
Project implementation is progressing well. Physical works are being carried out
satisfactorily by contractors. Tendering of non-physical activities, such as the
preparation of a transport sector strategy, are completed and activities are either
underway or about to start. The project implementation unit is working satisfactorily.
Changes in scope of works. When the ongoing IDA-financed International Road Corridor
Rehabilitation Project was prepared, it seemed clear that the future EU-financed project
would eventually upgrade the same Djibouti - Galafi road, and that in the meantime, the
IDA-financed project would only carry out (i) limited rehabilitation works on the 100-km
section between Dikhil and Galafi, and (ii) maintenance and minor repair works on the Arta
- Dikhil section of the road. However, the feasibility study for the EU project has now
resulted in a decision by the Government of Ethiopia and the EU to upgrade the so-called
"southern corridor", which in Djibouti goes through Ali Sabieh and then southward into
Ethiopia. Much of the present main corridor road will hence become a secondary road
corridor, which will nevertheless be an important link between the Port of Djibouti and
the northern parts of Ethiopia (where much of the food aid goes). For the Dikhil - Galafi
road section, there will thus not be a follow-on project, and the original decision to
carry out only a limited rehabilitation with a short lifespan had to be replaced by a more
thorough rehabilitation. The additional cost for the Dikhil - Galafi road section will
thus be US$ 3.0 million equivalent (including construction supervision). For the Arta -
Dikhil section, the 3-year delay of the EU-financed project (to start in 2005) will make
it necessary to carry out more extensive maintenance and emergency repair works than
originally foreseen, and the cost per km will be more than originally expected, which also
give an additional cost of US$ 3.0 million. The total additional financing requirement is
thus US$ 6.0 million, which will be covered through the supplemental credit.
The proposed Supplemental Credit will fund (i) the completion of ongoing road
rehabilitation works en the Dikhil-Galafi road section, (ii) emergency repairs and
maintenance on the Arta - Dikhil road section, and (iii) supervision of the above works by
engineering consultants.
4. Project Financing
The total cost of the ongoing project is US$ 18 million equivalent of which an IDA credit
of US$ 15 million equivalent. The Government contribution is US$ 2.35 million equivalent,
and US$ 0.65 million equivalent from other sources.
The additional project cost, to be covered through the supplemental credit, is estimated
at US$ 6.05 million equivalent of which an IDA Supplemental Credit of US$ 6.0 million
equivalent is proposed. The Government contribution is estimated at US$ 50,000
-3 -



equivalent. It is to be noted that the Government's contribution to the ongoing
International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project is relatively high with US$ 2.35
million.
5. Implementation
The ongoing project is being implemented by a Project Implementing Unit (PIU) established
within the Ministry of Transport. This unit was delegated full authority by the
Government to make efficient managerial decisions and to authorize all payments under the
Project. The PIU signs all civil works contracts, goods contracts and technical
assistance contracts, and operates the Financial Management System and the Special Account
for the project. The Project Director, in charge of the PIU, has sufficient rank and
authority to obtain quick decisions from the country's top decision makers and has the
capacity to execute decisions rapidly. A consulting firm is assisting the PIU and is
responsible for all construction management. This Construction Manager, recruited
internationally, is based in Dikhil, at the Roads Department's workshop and road camp.
The Construction Manager oversees and coordinates the work of the various subcontractors,
as well as a Force Account unit which has been assigned to the Construction Manager for
the life of the construction period. The Construction Manager has the direct
responsibility for organizing and directing the work of this Force Account unit. The
various construction contractors are coordinated and monitored by the Construction
Manager, but signs contracts directly with the Project Implementation Unit. Control of
quality of works undertaken by the Force Account Unit and local sub-contractors is the
responsibility of an independent Resident Supervision Engineer, recruited internationally.
The supplemental credit does not require additional implementation capacity beyond what is
already in place, and a modification of the Project Implementation Plan is not necessary,
except for an extension of the period for the execution of road works. The Supplemental
Credit will be subject to the same monitoring and reporting requirements of the ongoing
project.
6. Environmental and Social Aspects
As part of the preparation of the original project, an Environmental and Social Assessment
was conducted and concluded that the rehabilitation of the International road Corridor is
not expected to generate any significant environmental and social problems since it
represents the rehabilitation of an existing road only, with no changes in road width or
alignment. Nevertheless, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been satisfactorily
prepared for the project in coordination with the Ministry of Habitat, Urban Development,
Environment and Territorial Planning to mitigate potential construction and operation
period impacts and to address road safety issues. The last IDA supervision mission
included an environmental expert who concluded that the EMP is being implemented
satisfactorily, and that significant social or environmental problems do not exist.
Provisions have been made in the project design and budget to continue to support the
follow-up on the EMP.
7. Sustainability
The Bank is presently supporting the Government to develop a transport sector strategy
with special emphasis on sustainable arrangements for future maintenance of the road
network in general, and in particular of the Djibouti portion of the International Road
Corridor between Addis and Djibouti. It seems likely that a maintenance concession will
be awarded to a private concessionaire who would manage and maintain the road and collect
road user fees to finance his activities. Given the relatively high traffic volumes on
- 4 -



that road, this solution seems feasible. The concessioning process will be supported by
the ongoing project.
8. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Andreas Schliessler
Task Manager
(202)473-8523
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 21, 2003.
- 5 -



