E-346
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
REHABILITATION OF INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
A. OVERVIEW
1.    Background. The expanded use of the Port of Djibouti over the last year to meet
the complete import and export requirements of Ethiopia has resulted in an increase of
both Port activities and demands on the road system to move materials inland. The Port's
facilities are being more fully used and heavy truck traffic for hauling petroleum products
and dry goods has grown enormously. Oil tanker visits to the Port have grown from one
per month to over ten. Road traffic now consists of approximately 150 tanker trucks and
300 dry goods trucks per day; this traffic is causing serious degradation of Route
Nationale 1, which links the Port with the Ethiopian border at Galafi. The condition of
two segments of this road, from Arta to Dikhil (90 km) and Dikhil to Galafi (100 km)
mandates urgent rehabilitation efforts to sustain current use patterns, reduce further
physical degradation, decrease the high incidence of road accidents and routine damage
to vehicles, and lower dust levels, which have adverse impacts on local residents and
create driving hazards.
2.    Proposed IDA Supported Project. The proposed Rehabilitation of International
Road Corridor Project (Project) will support urgent rehabilitation and repairs of the road
between the turnoff for Arta and Galafi on the Ethiopian border, maintenance of the
rehabilitated road and technical assistance to strengthen institutional capacity in the
transport sector. The Project, with support from the International Development
Association (IDA), will assist the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET) to
undertake the following activities on an urgent basis,
(a)   Phase I - Urgent Road Rehabilitation' Component. The focus of the
Project will be to support rehabilitation of the following activities during
the first year of implementation:
(i)  Sub-Component A - Section 1 - Route Nationale 1 from Dikhil to
Galafi. This will include total rehabilitation and reconstruction of a
segment of road approximately 100 km long, which has completely
deteriorated. This segment has limited paved portions; the rest is
only covered with gravel. The road bed is under extreme stress from
traffic and is widely filled with potholes and ruts, shoulders are often
broken down from use as passing areas and extensive damage exists
at all crossings for ephemeral water courses. In addition, the
drainage structures appear to be undersized and may require
upgrading as well as cleaning to remove accumulated sediment.
Extreme dust problems all along the road create significant driving



hazards, damage to local vegetation and are reported by local
authorities to cause respiratory difficulties in settlements alongside
the road. In addition, the frequency of accidents attributable to the
current condition of the road puts the entire length at risk of
groundwater contamination in the event of toxic spills resulting from
an accident.
(ii)  Sub-Component B - Section 2 - Route Nationale 1 from Turnofffor
Arta to Dikhil. This will include localized repair and rehabilitation of
a road segment approximately 88 km long, running from Arta to
Dikhil. This is a fully paved segment, but the pavement.is-rapidly
deteriorating, there are sections with large potholes, shoulders are
breaking down and there is extensive damage at crossings for
ephemeral water courses. Dust problems at points along the road
create a serious driving hazard and cause damage to local vegetation.
The road has a very steep approach to the small town of Oueah,
which also has problems with encroachment on the road by informal
stalls. This issue will be addressed under a European Union (EU)
project that is anticipated to construct an alternative route to bypass
the settlement.
(iii) Sub-Component C - Equipment Procurement. This will include
procurement of equipment that will be used to make the Road
Department's plant pool operational.
(b)   Phlase II- Road Maintenance and Technical Assistance. During the
second, third and fourth years, the Project will include:
(i)  Sub-Component A - Road Maintenance. The sub-component will
provide support for routine maintenance of the Arta-to-Dikhil and
Dikhil-to-Galafi Section of Route Nationale 1 for a period of three
years, after Project funded road improvements and repair works have
been undertaken.
(ii)  Sub-Component B - Axle Load Control. Support will be provided for
the establishment of an axle load control station, procurement of
related equipment, including weigh bridges, and training of
personnel. Preparation of this component will occur during the Phase
I implementation of the urgent rehabilitation. Preparation activities
will include an examination of the feasibility of including other
safety control checks on trucks in addition to axle load control.
(iii) Sub-Component C - Technical Assistance. This will support
technical assistance for advisory and planning services and training
of personnel from MET and cooperating organizations, including:
* Project Implementation. Assistance to the Roads Department to
implement the Project in a very short time frame;
2



*  Studies. Technical assistance to undertake various studies and
activities, including road safety and an HIV/AIDS outreach
program;
*  Trade Related Services. Technical assistance to prepare a
strategy and facilitate development of trade related services in
Djibouti;
*  Other Activities. If practical and with the understanding of the
Government and Delegation of the European Commission, the
Project will also implement agreed policy and institutional
recommendations from the EU financed transport study.
3.    Planned European Union Supported Regional Study and Proposed Project.
The preparation and implementation of the IDA Project will be closely coordinated with
development of the proposed EU regional study and its associated project. This regional
study will evaluate both medium and long-term options for surface transport between
Djibouti and Ethiopia and a range of alternative road alignments to improve the road
connection between Ethiopia and Djibouti. It will also include detailed evaluation of
measures for upgrading the road system between Dobi in Ethiopia and Arta in Djibouti.
The regional study will support preparation of a feasibility study; including technical,
economic and environmental evaluation, for rehabilitation and upgrading of this road. It
will involve preparation of technical design and preparation of tender documents;
technical assistance for tender administration and evaluation; evaluation of the potential
contribution of transit traffic to the Road Fund; and administrative measures to improve
road maintenance. The cooperating governnents, EU and IDA are coordinating with each
to make certain that the proposed road rehabilitation works will be compatible with this
future intervention. The rehabilitated roadway resulting from the IDA Project will be
fully incorporated into the EU-supported project, if the studies from that proj ect
recommend following the same alignment.
B ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
4.    Administrative and Legal Framework. The Republic of Djibouti has
established institutions with responsibilities for environmental management. It has joined
a number of international conventions and is in the process of developing environmental
legislation and procedures:
(a)   Environmental Management. Overall responsibility for environmental
management rests with the National Committee on the Environment, a
working group chaired by the Prime Minister and made up of Ministers
whose portfolios impact or are impacted by environmental policy. This
Committee is advised by a Technical Committee for the Environment,
made up of relevant staff representation from the same Ministries. The
Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial
Management (MOE), established in 1999, provides secretariat services to
the Technical Committee, and is also responsible for preparation of the
overall environmental policy of Djibouti, and for coordination of relevant
3



activities with departments represented on the Technical Committee. The
Ministry of Ports (MPA) is responsible for the management of Port affairs
and the International Autonomous Port of Djibouti (PAID), and
consequently is responsible for environmental matters within the Port's
jurisdiction. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Marine Affairs is
responsible for maritime navigation, safety at sea and oil pollution control
outside of the area administered by PAID.
(b)   Strategies and Legislation. Major recent environmental studies prepared
for Djibouti include the National Environmental Action Plan prepared
with financial support from UNDP, a review of coastal and marine
management issues in the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden and a Biodiversity Strategy, which is in draft. A national
framework law for environment has been prepared and will be submitted
to the Council of Ministers shortly. Procedures for environmental impact
assessment are in preliminary draft. Djibouti currently does not have a
fornal requirement for environmental assessment of proposed projects;
however, it was agreed for the purposes of the proposed Project that those
of the World Bank/IDA will be used.
(c)   Participation in Conventions. Djibouti is a party to the Jeddah
Convention for environmental protection of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
and adheres to many of the major maritime conventions. It has joined the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), the
Biodiversity Convention, the UN Convention to Combat Desertification,
and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is in the
processing of ratifying the Ramsar Convention.
(d)   Regional Cooperation. Djibouti is a member of the Regional Organization
for the Conservation of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (PERSGA) and is
taking an active role in implementation of the Strategic Action Program
for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden with support from the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). At the sub-regional level, an agreement was
signed by Djibouti, Somalia and Yemen in 1990 providing for
establishment of the Marine Emergency Mutual Aid Center (MEMAC) in
Djibouti. This center has been provided with some equipment that can be
used for the management of oil spills in open marine waters.
5.    Environmental and Social Review Process. The Project has been placed in
environmental screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of Operational
Policy 4.01 of the World Bank/IDA. The environmental category is justified, since the
Project represents rehabilitation of an existing road only, with no changes in the
alignment. The envirornmental impacts associated with the proposed road rehabilitation
activities will be limited in scope and duration. The potential impacts of Project
supported activities are well known and can be effectively addressed through engineering
design, low cost mitigation measures and proper construction monitoring. Construction
contracts will include specific environmental provisions and contractors will receive a
4



briefing concerning these requirements. This Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
has been prepared in English and French.
6.    Field Based Review. In order to support Project preparation, a field-based review
of environmental and social issues related to the Safeguard Policies of the Bank was
conducted in February 2000 by Stephen F. Lintner, Senior Technical Advisor,
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network. This included
meetings and site visits with representatives of the Government of Djibouti, local
officials in the Project area and personnel from private sector oil companies operating in
the Port of Djibouti (Attachment A). These issues were further discussed by the Task
Team during April and May 2000 in the course of Project preparation.
7.    Meetings. Meetings were held in Djibouti City with His Excellency Osman Idriss
Djama, Minister of Equipment and Transport and His Excellency Saleban Omar Oudin,
Minister of Habitat, Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial Management to discuss
the objectives of the proposed Project. Technical meetings were held with Messrs
Awaleh, Ismael, Brishoual and Guillemot of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport,
Mr. Ahmed Osman Omar, Director of Marine Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Marine Affairs, and Mr. Nasser Djama Abdi, PERSGA Coordinator.
8.    Site Visits. A series of site visits was conducted to review environmental and
social issues associated with the Project. A field visit was conducted to review conditions
along the road from Arta, west of Djibouti City, to Galafi at the Djiboutian-Ethiopian
border. Site visits were also made to the Port of Djibouti to review current environmental
clean-up efforts in the Port, and issues related to oil and cargo transfer from ships and
reloading of these materials onto trucks for shipment to Ethiopia. The site visit to the road
included the participation of Mr. Aboubaker Doualeh Waiss, Technical Advisor, MOE
and Mr. Dini Abdallah Omar, Deputy Director of the Department of Environment, MOE.
Visits were conducted to PAID and MEMAC with the participation of Mr. Dini Abdullah
Omar, Mr. Hassan Aden Hared, Chief of Pollution Division, Marine Affairs Directorate,
MAFMA and Mr. Abdoulkader A. Hassan, Port Safety Officer, PAID. During the site
visits discussions were held with Mr. Ayanleh Idriss Hassan, Director of Operations of
Shell Djibouti and Mr. Wagdi Omar Dorani, Safety, Health and Environment Manager
for Mobil Djibouti. In Dikhil a meeting was held with Messrs. Osman R. Dobar and
Hamad Mohammed Hamad of the Office of the District Commissioner. Additional field
visits were conducted jointly by representatives of the Government and IDA during April
and May 2000.
9.   Public Consultation. Preparation of the Project has included a public consultation
process as an element of the environmental and social review. This process has allowed
the draft EMP to be discussed through a series of meetings with national government
agencies, local governments and local nongovernmental organizations. Bank/IDA
environmental procedures require that all projects in environmental screening categories
"A" and "B" include public consultation meetings undertaken as a part of Project
preparation. In order to fulfill this policy the Department of Public Works, in cooperation
with the Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs and Environment, has undertaken a series of
public consultation meetings concerning the environmental and social aspects of the
proposed Project. These were held in Djibouti City on 29 April 2000 and in Dikhil on 30
5



April 2000. A brief written summary of the Project, including environmental and social
aspects, was provided to the participants, as well as an explanation of the structure of the
construction process. Minutes of these meetings, as well as a list of invitees and
attendees, are included as Attachment B to this EMP. The Project Implementation Plan
will also contain provisions for periodic consultations with officials and residents along
the road corridor to solicit their views concerning the environmental and social aspects of
the construction process used for road rehabilitation.
C.  CURRENT CONDITIONS
10.   Project Setting. Djibouti is a small country with the majority of its population
and economic activities concentrated in the City of Djibouti and the adjacent PAID. It is
semi-arid to arid with predominantly high temperatures and very low rainfall. Water is
obtained from groundwater wells, springs and local river beds. Water courses are
temporary or ephemeral in nature and are characterized by flooding during the limited
storm events. The Port of Djibouti serves as the site for import and export of products for
both Djibouti and Ethiopia. International access to the port from Ethiopia is limited to a
single railway line and the Route Nationale 1. In the area traversed by the existing road,
which will be rehabilitated under the Project, the population is mostly located in only
three settlements of any size: Oueah (population 3,000), Dikhil (population 25,000) and
Yoboki (population 3,000). In addition, there are approximately five small villages along
the road with populations of less than 500 persons (for example, Gour Abbous). While
the Project will not finance activities in the Port of Djibouti, environmental issues in the
Port have been included in this analysis to provide a comprehensive overview of potential
impacts associated with the Project.
11.   Port of Djibouti. The Port of Djibouti is a major modem port with facilities for
containers, petroleum products and bulk cargo. It has extensive warehouses, open storage
areas and truck yards. Three international companies - Mobil, Shell and Total - operate
facilities for the import, storage and distribution of refined petroleum products. The Port
and the three international oil companies have designated personnel who work on
environment, health and safety issues. The main environmental management concerns at
the Port are:
(a)   Historic Oil Leakage. The Port has long been used for the import and
storage of oil for Djibouti. This has resulted in development of a large
subsurface lens of petroleum products under the main portion of the Port.
At depths below one meter, oil floating on the groundwater table can be
observed in wells, foundation trenches and other excavations. According
to both government and private sector parties, this lens originated
approximately 10 years ago when a series of nine underground pipelines
that were used for oil transfer were cut off and abandoned, and is
compounded by apparent leakage from older above ground storage tanks.
It is reported that when the pipelines were abandoned they were cut off
and sealed without removing the oil inside. In addition, recent tests have
suggested that the current transfer pipeline, as well as in-use storage tanks,
may also be leaking oil into the waters in and around the Port area.
6



This situation has also led to frequent discharge of oil products during low
tide from the groundwater table into the Port area. Seasonal currents carry
the oil and deposit it on recreational beaches. A major program is
currently being implemented with private sector funding to remedy this
problem; it includes containment of the discharges to the marine
environment, pumping oil from the lens into containers for disposal,
locating and properly decommissioning the abandoned pipelines, and
inspection and rehabilitation/replacement of storage facilities. This work is
being undertaken by an international environmental services contractor
that has staff and specialized equipment onsite to take the required
remedial actions.
(b)   Operational Oil Spill Management. The Port of Djibouti also experiences
occasional operational oil spills associated with the transfer of petroleum
products from tankers to onshore facilities. These are addressed by the
combined efforts of staff from the Port of Djibouti and personnel and
equipment from Mobil, Shell and Total. Authorities report that they have
been able to successfully contain operational spills when they have
occurred within the port area.
(c)   Port and Traffic Safety. The Port of Djibouti has management issues
normally associated with Port operations, storage of petroleum products
and dry goods, onloading and off-loading of materials and movement of
materials to and from the Port.
12.   Route Nationale 1 from Arta to Galaff. The highly deteriorated condition of the
Route Nationale l from the turnoff for Arta to Galafi presents a series of local
environmental problems related to road use, traffic safety and truck accidents. Physical
degradation has led to extremely high dust levels that create serious road safety problems
and contribute to the many accidents experienced by truck traffic along the road. The
high dust levels also constitute a health and nuisance problem for towns located along
Route Nationale 1, especially Yoboki, which is located immediately adjacent to the road
and in an area with highly dust prone soils. Roadside vegetation is damaged by dust and
there are problems with drainage features locally blocked by the road. A special
environmental problem associated with high truck volume, including transport of
petroleum products, is the frequent rate of major accidents caused by poor visibility from
dust, overloading of trucks and use of poorly designed tanker trailers. These accidents
result in serious injuries, loss of life and, when petroleum products are involved, localized
spillage of materials onto areas adjacent to the road, and potentially into underground
water flows.
D. POTENTIAL IMPACTS
13.   Potential Environmental Impacts - Rehabilitation Phase. The Project will
result in significant environmental, health and safety improvements along the two road
sections to be rehabilitated with IDA support. The impact on the Port of Djibouti will be
neutral given that the current levels of traffic have already been established and the road
7



improvements are anticipated only to provide for more efficient movement of these
shipments to and from the Port of Djibouti and Ethiopia.
14.   Port of Djibouti. The Project will not result in an increase in the current amount
of vessel traffic in the Port of Djibouti; however, it will allow for a reduction in the travel
times for trucks carrying goods to and from the Port to and from points in Ethiopia. This
will reduce truck congestion in the Port area and decrease the number of vehicles
requiring repair. The ongoing efforts of the international petroleum companies to correct
the historic soil and groundwater pollution problem in the Port of Djibouti will continue
and should be completed over the next 24 months. Efforts will continue by PAID and the
three international oil companies to control and combat operational oil spills within the
Port. Efforts are planned by PERSGA, under the Strategic Action Program for the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden, to revitalize the MEMAC and make the equipment stored in the
Port available for control of oil spills in the open marine environment.
15.   Route Nationale 1 - Road Sections 1 and 2. The Project will result in
environmental improvements along both road segments through upgrading of road
conditions, sealing the road bed to reduce dust levels, rehabilitating crossing structures
for ephemeral streams, and improving cross drainage facilities. Implementation of the
Project will result in a major reduction in the number and severity of accidents associated
with current road conditions.
(a)   Road Section I - Route Nationale 1 from Dikhil to Galafi. This will
include total rehabilitation and reconstruction of a completely deteriorated
segment of road approximately 100 km long, which will result in
temporary construction impacts over a 12-18 month period. These impacts
are associated with the repair and/or replacement of sections of road
surface and reconstruction of streambed crossings. This will require
expanded use of existing construction sites, removal and disposal of waste
materials from the roadbed and disposal of containers of bitumen and
other types of sealers. Pollution of land and soils will occur locally from
the disposal, both controlled and uncontrolled, of tires, broken parts, waste
fuel and used lubricants for heavy machinery and trucks engaged in the
construction process. In some areas noise and dust levels will be
temporarily aggravated by the construction process. In some places the
need to provide temporary bypass roads for traffic to avoid areas under
reconstruction will also result in local damage to vegetation. In addition, if
improperly carried out, quarrying and earth-borrowing activities may
leave these sites susceptible to excessive wind and water erosion. This
may impose additional costs on the road itself, if resulting changes in
storm water drainage cause unforeseen deterioration in the road surface or
bed.
(b)   Road Section 2 - Route Nationale I from Turnofffor Arta to Dikhil. The
localized repair and rehabilitation of Road Section 2 from Arta to Dikhil
will result in temporary construction impacts over a 12-month period.
These impacts are projected to be similar in nature; however, more
restricted in scope to those described immediately above for Road Section
8



1. Their more limited nature is due to the focus of this Sub-Component on
targeted rehabilitation and repair of this section of the Route Nationale 1.
16.   Other Issues. The field review included examination of the following issues:
(a)   Parks anid Protected Areas. The current status of parks and protected
areas was reviewed, as well as the findings and recommendations of the
draft Biodiversity Strategy. This review indicated that no present parks or
protected areas are located within or adjacent to the proposed Project area.
However, the Agna Region, just southwest of the road near Yoboki,
because of its rich biodiversity, and the Galafi Plain, because of its
importance for migrating birds, are being proposed by MOE for potential
listing as protected areas under the Ramsar Convention, along with the
Lac Abbe, a seasonal wetland on the southwestern border area.
(b)   Archaeological, Historical and Sacred Sites. Project preparation has
included consultation with representatives of Institut Superieur d'Etudes et
des Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques (ISERST) which is
responsible for management of cultural resources in Djibouti. They made
a review and confirmed that the proposed road rehabilitation activities
would not have a direct adverse impact on any known archaeological or
historical sites. As part of this review process ISERST prepared a list of
recorded sites in the greater Project area that will be used by the Project
team to avoid disruption and/or damage to these sites. Current plans call
for the excavation of construction materials from previously developed
sites used when the Route Nationale 1 was originally built which should
limit impacts in these areas; however, it is planned that a representative of
ISERST would be on-site during important earth work and materials
gathering activities. In addition, some mosques and shrines are located at a
safe distance from the road. A number of graveyards exist along the road
at various points adjacent to settlements. These are clearly visible and
could be easily avoided during Project financed road rehabilitation
activities.
17.   Potential Environmental Impacts - Operation Phase. Potential environmental
impacts associated with the operation phase of the Project include:
(a)   Port of Djibouti. There will remain a continued risk of oil spills from
tankers traveling to and from the Port as well as operational risks
associated with the unloading and storage of petroleum products. The
loading, unloading and storage of petroleum products and dry goods at the
Port will continue to present worker health and safety risks and a chance
of fire or explosion within the Port area. These risks can be minimized
through the continued work of the environment, health and safety officers
of the PAID and international oil companies, in collaboration with the
Enviromnent Department. These environmental management activities are
viewed as being beyond the scope of the proposed Project.
9



(b)   Road Sections 1 and 2. The rehabilitated road sections will require regular
maintenance which if deferred will result in immediate deterioration and a
return to current conditions. Measures will need to be taken to improve
vehicle standards and to enforce reasonable cargo safety controls for loads
leaving the Port. Efforts will also need to be taken to establish some form
of traffic safety control. There is a risk of increase in the number and
severity of vehicle collisions as a result of faster driving on the improved
road surface. Informal development of roadside facilities for use by the
truckers will continue at various points along the road to provide a range
of services. Road crossings will be designed to minimize risk of damage
and disruption from flash flooding during severe rainstorms and
maintenance will be provided to keep cross drainage and culverts open
and free of sediment, vegetation and trash.
E. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
18.   Proposed Rehabilitation Project. The proposed Project offers very limited
opportunities for the analysis of alternatives given the focus on the emergency
rehabilitation of the existing road. Options open to Ethiopia for the import of dry goods,
food and fuel and export of its products are limited at present due to political issues in the
region, which make use of other ports on a regular basis either impossible or very
difficult. The "no action alternative" or "without project alternative" is not acceptable, as
this would seriously restrict the ability of Ethiopia to import or export goods via the sea.
Options within Djibouti are limited since it has only one site suitable for use as an
international port. The planned European Union study and its associated project,
described below, will support evaluation of alternative surface transport options from the
Port of Djibouti to Ethiopia; however, these choices are limited by topographical and
construction feasibility, environmental and social aspects and cost considerations. If an
alternative route were to be selected as the result of the feasibility study, it would still
require several years to design and construct. This would not reduce the benefit of
rehabilitating the existing road, which would continue to be used heavily until the new
road was opened and/or a decision made for additional investment in railroad services.
19.   European Union Supported Transport Study. With the support of the EU,
Djibouti and Ethiopia are in the process of starting a major study, which will provide a
broad analysis of medium and long-term surface transport alternatives between these two
countries. This study will provide the necessary framework for decisions on surface
transportation investments that will go beyond the short-term scope of the road
rehabilitation interventions to be supported under the proposed Project. The EU
supported study will include an evaluation of the transport corridor between Djibouti and
Ethiopia and support a comparative analysis of all existing surface routes, including the
Dobi road, Denwele road and the railway, and also examine other possible future surface
routes between Ethiopia and Djibouti. This study is anticipated to provide an analysis that
decision makers need to determine their transport strategy and prioritize specific
investment actions. The study is expected to result in a series of projects that will be
considered for support by the EU and other parties interested in supporting regional
infrastructure investments.
10



20.   Review of Storm Water Management. Geo-technical specialists will examine in
detail questions of storm water drainage and flash flooding as part of this EU-supported
study (campagne de deflection). These studies are expected to begin at the end of May
2000. The geo-technical specialists will interface with the design consultants for the
proposed IDA Project, who will be in Djibouti at the same time, in order to deterrnine the
appropriate measures to be taken on each of the projects to address these questions.
F. SOCIAL ASPECTS
21.   Overview. The Project preparation process has identified two social issues that
should be addressed under the Project: (a) access to construction period employment by
local residents in the Project area; and (b) potential for increased transmission of
HIV/AIDS along the rehabilitated transport corridor. These issues have been included in
the EMP to facilitate their integration into mitigation measures, monitoring actions and
the supervision and reporting process for the Project.
22.   Access to Employment. The field review indicated that within the Project area,
the primary social issue from the viewpoint of both local government and residents is
access to Project related employment. Implementation arrangements have guaranteed that
local contractors and force account details will be responsible for the bulk of the actual
civil works (overseen and managed by an international construction management
consultant). These contractors will bring their own skilled labor with them to the job site.
It is anticipated that most of the skilled labor force will come from Djibouti City.
However, some local hires will inevitably occur for unskilled workers; the number of
such workers needed will be left to the discretion of the successful bidding contractors.
Consultations with local officials, tribal elders, and local nongovernmental organizations
have concluded with the agreement that the arrangements of the logistics of such
unskilled employment is best left to local customs and traditions. Local leaders and tribal
elders present at the consultations have pledged their support and cooperation to assure
the process goes smoothly.
23.   HIV/AIDS. The Project, consistent with the approach adopted for similar IDA
funded transportation projects in Africa, will include support for an HIV/AIDS education
and outreach program. Activities will be coordinated at the national level with the PIU
and the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the World Health Organization, which is
administering funds for a national level HIV/AIDS program in Djibouti. Activities during
Phase I of the Project will identify the best manner in which the Bank can contribute to
these HIV/AIDS efforts in connection with the Route Nationale 1, with the intention that
identified activities will be undertaken during Phase II of the Project. These preparatory
activities will include local level discussions with government representatives in Dikhil
District, as well as community organizations that address employment and HIV/AIDS
education measures. This program will be designed to address the local population as
well as truck drivers and other service personnel from Ethiopia who are transiting or
temporarily in residence in Djibouti. The effort will also be coordinated with the planned
and on-going HIV/AIDS activities supported by other multi- and bi-lateral aid
institutions.
11



G. MITIGATION MEASURES
24. Mitigation Measures. The EMP supports specific measures to mitigate potential
construction and operation period impacts and to address road safety issues, adoption of
archaeological "chance find" procedures and management of graveyards and burials if
they are encountered during construction. Provisions are also being made for the planning
and conduct of a HIV/AIDS outreach program. The EMP provides for instructions to be
given to the design engineers and construction contractors for undertaking specific
actions to support implementation of portions of the Plan. The EMP supports the
following:
(a)   Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts. Specific measures to
reduce potential construction impacts will be taken regarding the detailed
design, construction tenders, construction process and contractor
performance monitoring. Contracts will contain requirements for proper
management of construction waste; control measures for waste fuel, oil
and lubricants; reduction of noise and dust levels; and rehabilitation of
areas used for bypass roads and sites used construction materials.
Contractors will be required to provide and maintain equipment with
proper noise abatement controls. Specific provisions shrould be included in
construction contracts to mandate the use of formal health and safety
measures to minimize accidents and avoid fatalities during the
construction process.
(b)   Management of Operational Impacts. The Project will address
operational impacts through support for a road maintenance program for
three years to avoid deterioration of the rehabilitated road and associated
dust and safety problems. Maintenance teams will be required to follow
procedures similar to those for the construction contractors concerning
proper disposal of construction waste, control measures for waste fuel, oil
and lubricants and adoption of health and safety measures for personnel. It
is not anticipated that the road rehabilitation will result in a significant
increase in traffic volume, therefore air pollution from vehicle emissions
will stay neutral or decrease due to use of improved vehicle standards.
Suspended dust caused by vehicles will be radically reduced by the
rehabilitation of the road, which will include resurfacing and sealing
operations.
(c)   Storm Water and Sediment Management. Final designs for the road
rehabilitation program will take into account storm water and sediment
management requirements for oued crossings and culverts as agreed
between design consultants working under the PHRD-funded project
preparation, and geo-technical specialists working as part of the feasibility
study for the EU-funded program. As part of the maintenance program,
the implementing agency of Phase II of the proposed Project will make
certain that routine maintenance is undertaken to keep oued crossings clear
of debris and that culverts are regularly cleared of sediment and debris
during the three year period of implementation.
12



(d)   Road Safety Measures. Important mitigation actions under Phase II of the
Project include three complementary interventions to support improved
road safety:
(i) Sub-Component B - Axle-Load Control: This mitigation measure
will support establishment of an axle load control station,
procurement of related equipment, including weigh bridge stations,
and training of personnel. This intervention should reduce the
incidence of excessive loads on trucks carrying dry goods or
petroleum tanks and help to lower the rate of accidents due to axle
and tire failure.
(ii) Sub-Component C - Technical Assistance. The sub-component will
support technical assistance for advisory and planning services and
training for a road safety study and priority implementation
measures. This will include evaluation of the incidence and causes of
accidents, identification of measures that can be taken to reduce
accidents and recommendations for priority actions to be
implemented within the life of the Project. The preparation of this
study will be coordinated with PAID since outbound trucks originate
in the port.
(e)   Use ofArchaeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Attachment C
contains proposed procedures for archaeological "chance finds," should
they be encountered during the course of construction activities. These
procedures have been developed in consultation with the ISERST. The
provisions of these "chance find" procedures will be included as an annex
to the Tender documents for construction contractors and Terms of
Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender Conference will
include provisions for a session on environmental and social issues during
which the archaeological "chance find" procedures will be reviewed with
potential construction contractors.
(f)   Archaeological Field Support. ISERST will provide a qualified
archaeologist to conduct field investigations when important earth work
and materials gathering activities are undertaken. The archaeologist would
be attached to the Construction Manager's team and provided transport
and office space at the road camp in Dikhil. A list of known sites in the
region has been compiled and will be provided to the Construction
Manager, supervising engineer, and individual contractors. These sites
would also be discussed as an element of the environmental and social
section of the Pre-Tender Conference.
(g)   Graveyards and Burials. If unrecorded graveyards and/or burials are
found during the course of construction activities, the PIUJ will contact and
work with local religious authorities within the Project area to allow for
13



possible identification of the remains and when appropriate properly
undertake relocation and reburial.
(h)   Local Employment. The mechanism for the rapid rehabilitation of the
road has been designed to maximize the use of local resources while still
guaranteeing timely completion of the Project. Skilled labor provided by
these local resources is unlikely to be hired locally in the Project area.
However, there will be a need by the various contractors for unskilled
labor, a need most likely to be filled locally, within the Project area.
Consultations with local leaders in Dikhil concluded that the arrangements
for such employment was best handled according to local tradition and
custom. Contractors will be expected to use widely practiced measures to
safeguard worker health and safety, to minimize accidents, and prevent
fatalities.
(i)    HIVWAIDS Outreach Program. The mitigation plan includes support for
an HIV/AIDS education and outreach program. These activities would be
coordinated with the Ministry of Health, local government representatives
in Dikhil and other settlements in the Project area, and international
institutions and NGOs working on HIV/AIDS issues in Djibouti. This
program will be designed to address the needs of three audiences: (i) the
local population in the Project area; (ii) truck drivers and other service
personnel from Ethiopia who are transiting or temporarily in residence in
Djibouti; and (iii) personnel from construction and maintenance
contractors.
25.   Measures for Design and Construction Contracts. The EMP includes the
following mitigation measures for detailed design, construction tenders and construction
contracts:
(a)   Detailed Design. The detailed design process for rehabilitation of the road
will include consideration for environmental, cultural heritage and sacred
sites issues. In this context special consideration will be given to measures
to address design of oued crossings and culverts to take into account flash
flooding and efficient maintenance. In locations where the road will pass
close to local communities, measures will be taken for consultation with
local authorities and public representatives to support finalization of
designs. In addition, as appropriate the staff of the Consultant will
investigate localized design issues that would reduce impacts to the
environment.
(b)   Construction Tender. All construction contracts will include specific
provisions concerning environmental, health and safety measures. All
successful contractors will be required to have their staff participate in a
Project sponsored HIV/AIDS awareness programn. The Pre-Tender
Conference for potential construction contractors will include a briefing
concerning their responsibilities to address environmental, health and
14



safety issues. These briefings will outline the specific provisions of the
Construction Tender Documents and Contracts.
(c)   Pre-Tender Conference. All pre-qualified contractors will be called to a
Pre-Tender Conference at which issues of special interest or concern will
be outlined. With regard to environmental, health and safety issues the
Contractors will be briefed on:
(i)  Environment, Health and Safety. This includes provisions in the
contracts regarding requirements to address environmental, health
and safety issues as part of the road rehabilitation works. These
include provisions for the proper management and disposal of waste
materials, oil, lubricants and fuel and adoption and use of proper
health and safety measures for construction workers. This will
include information on the need for staff to participate in the
HIV/AIDS awareness program.
(ii) Sensitive Areas. Areas within or imrnediately adjacent to the
construction area which are sensitive from an environmental, cultural
heritage or sacred sites perspective will be identified in the final
engineering drawings. Standard conditions requiring special care in
the vicinity of the defined sites so as not to disturb them will be
issued by the PIU.
(iii) Procedures for New Borrow Areas and Quarry Sites. The location of
new borrow areas and quarry sites selected by the contractor will be
reviewed and formally approved by the PIU, MOE and the ISERST
to prevent environmental values being damaged by quarrying or
borrow excavation. Such inspection will not be unreasonably
delayed.
H. MONITORING ACTIVITIES
26.   Monitoring Plan. The Monitoring Plan for the EMP for the Project will be
implemented by the PIU, with the active involvement of the MOE and support of the
Ministry of Health, and include the measures outlined below. The main responsibility for
monitoring activities will rest with the PIU, with the support of the supervising engineer,
who will work together to integrate environmental, health and safety concerns into the
overall planning, implementation and operation of the Project. The PIU will monitor
application of measures for detailed design, construction tenders and construction
contracts. The results of monitoring activities will be included as routine elements of
reports prepared by the PIU, with the assistance of the supervising engineer, with copies
to the MET and IDA. Key activities include:
(a)   Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts. The PIU, with the support
of the supervising engineer as appropriate, will regularly monitor
implementation of the mitigation measures adopted for the Project to
address construction period impacts for road rehabilitation activities.
15



(b)   Management of Operationial Impacts. The PIU, with the support of the
supervising engineer as appropriate, will regularly monitor
implementation of the mitigation measures adopted for the Project to
address operational impacts during the period in which support will be
provided under the Project for maintenance of the rehabilitated road.
These procedures should be continued after the close of the IDA Project.
(c)   Storm Water and Sediment Management. The PIU, with the support of
the supervising engineer, will review the provisions made in the designs to
address these issues, monitor compliance with these designs by the
construction contractor and check on the maintenance activities
undertaken by the Roads Department and/or maintenance contractors.
(d)   Road Safety Measures. Implementation of the various interventions to
support road safety will be the responsibility of the PIUJ and will be
included in the routine reporting on Project progress during Phases I and
II.
(e)   Use ofArchaeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Application of the
archaeological "chance find" procedures, if required during the course of
road rehabilitation, will be monitored by the supervising engineer and the
PIU and ISERST.
(f)   Archaeological Field Support. The on-site work of the archaeologist from
ISERST will be monitored by the PIU, Construction Manager and the
management of ISERST. A record would be maintained of the
archaeologist's activities and information compiled on sites located and/or
materials found during this fieldwork.
(g)   Graveyards and Burials. The implementation of any actions to address
issues related to unrecorded graveyards and/or burials will be undertaken
by the PIU in conjunction with local authorities.
(h)   HIVIAIDS Outreach Program. The implementation of the HIV/AIDS
education and outreach program will be monitored by the PIU with the
assistance of the Ministry of Health. The supervising engineer will
monitor the proper implementation of HIV/AIDS procedures affecting
construction and maintenance personnel.
I. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
27.  Institutional Strengthening. Consistent with IDA environmental procedures, a
review was made of potential institutional strengthening activities that should be included
under the Project to address environmental concerns. The key actions included in the
Mitigation Measures section of the EMP are support for training in road safety activities
in conjunction with investments to control truck loads and the use of standard clauses on
environmental, health and safety issues for construction contracts. ISERST will gain
experience in cultural resources management through the adoption of archaeological
16



"chance find" procedures and conduct of on-site investigation in conjunction with the
physical works program. In addition, the HIV/AIDS outreach program will support
significantly improved knowledge of this health and development challenge.
J. ESTIMATED COST AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
28.   Estimated Cost and Implementation Schedule. Costs have been developed for
the implementation of this EMP and are included in the Project Appraisal Document.
Most of the proposed EMP mitigation and monitoring activities will be addressed under
provisions of the construction contracts, engineering supervision contract and the
proposed technical assistance Sub-Component of Phase II. In addition, the Project will
include an implementation schedule that integrates the activities of the EMP into the
overall schedule.
K. REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
29.   Reporting. As an element of Project reporting requirements, the PIU will prepare
routine reports concerning progress in implementation of activities related to the EMP.
These reports should note any contractor non-compliance with the EMP and provide
guiding remarks on the actions to be taken. The significance of the non-compliance
should also be noted. As necessary, supplemental reports with greater detail than the
routine reports also will be prepared on these topics.
30. Project Supervision. The Supervision Plan for the proposed Project will include
provisions for the participation of World Bank environmental staff in supervision
missions, as appropriate, to review progress in implementation of the EMP. The
performance of the PIU in the implementation of these activities under the Project will be
a standard element of supervision reports, including the Early Implementation
Assessment, Mid-Term Review and the Implementation Completion Report.
L. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
31.   Disclosure of Information. Consultations have been undertaken with a range of
agencies and stakeholders in Djibouti and will be expanded during the implementation
process. Consistent with the procedures of IDA, the Govenment of Djibouti has agreed
to make the EMP, which is included as an Annex to the Project Appraisal Document,
available to the public through to the Info-Shop at the World Bank and at selected
locations in Djibouti, including the offices of Dikhil and Djibouti Districts, and the
Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial Management. The EMP
has been prepared and distributed in both English and French.
17



I



Attachment A
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
REHABILITATION OF INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
LIST OF PERSONS CONTACTED
Ministry of Equipment and Transport
His Excellency Osman Idriss Djama     Minister
Mahamoud Ahmed Awaleh                 Head of Public Works
Mohamed Ali Ismael                    Technical Advisor
M. Le Brishoual                       Technical Advisor
B. Guillemot                          Head of Mission to the Department
of Public Works
Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial Management
His Excellency Saleban Omar Oudin     Minister
Mr. Aboubaker Doualeh Waiss           Technical Advisor
Mr. Dini Abdallah Omar                Deputy Director, Department of
Environment
Mr. Nasser Djama Abdi                 PERSGA Coordinator/Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden Program
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Marine Affairs
Mr. Ahmed Osman Omar                  Director, Marine Affairs
Mr. Hassan Aden Hared                 Chief of Pollution Division, Marine
Affairs Directorate
Ministry of Ports
Mr. Abdoulkader A. Hassan             Port Officer in Charge of Security,
International Autonomous Port of
Djibouti (PAID)
18



Dikhil District
Mr. Osman R. Dobar                   1" Deputy to the Commissioner and
Dikhil District Chief
Hamad Mohammed Hamad                  2nd Deputy to the Commissioner and
Dikhil District Chief
Private Sector
Mr. Ayanleh Idriss Hassan             Director of Operations, Shell
Djibouti
Mr. Wagdi Omar Dorani                 Safety, Health and Environment
Manager, Mobil Djibouti
19



Attachment B
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
REHABILITATION OF INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
RECORD OF PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
1. Consultation Process. Public consultations on the proposed Djibouti -
Rehabilitation of the International Road Corridor were held on the 29th and 30th of April,
in Djibouti City and in Dikhil, respectively. The agenda for the meetings included: an
introduction; description of the proposed Project; review of economic, social and
environmental aspects; information on the role of the World Bank and a question and
comment session. Participants received a Project information sheet and copies of the
Environmental Management Plan, in French, were circulated.
2.   Consultation Meetings. The consultation meetings were held as follows:
* Djibouti City. The consultation in Djibouti City was chaired by M. Mahmoud
Awaleh, interim Director of Public Works, and was held at the Djibouti Chamber of
Commerce. A list of participants invited and those who attended is attached as Sub
Attachment 1. The proceedings, carried out in French, were reported in the national
French language newspaper, and on national news programs.
* Dikhil and Yoboki. The consultation in Dikhil occurred at the Office of Dikhil
District, and was chaired by M. Moussa Djama Guedi, Commissar of the Republic for
Dikhil District. Proceedings were conducted in French and Somali, with the aid of a
local translator. A list of the participants invited and those who attended is provided
as Sub-Attachment 2. In lieu of holding a separate consultation in Yoboki, the
Commissar of the District made arrangements for representatives of concemed parties
to come from Yoboki down to Dikhil to participate in the Public Consultation there.
* Oui?a. It was also decided that a Consultation at Ou8ta was not necessary, since only
the most minor road repairs might occur in this area, the bulk of the repair work for
the Arta spur to Dikhil section of the road being located in the Petit Bara, in Dikhil
District.
3.   Minutes of Public Consultation in Djibouti City. Mr. Awaleh greeted and
thanked those in attendance for their time. Following introductions of all in attendance,
he summarized the proposed Project, talking about components of the Project, the
structure of the construction team, and the timeline for implementation. Mr. Dini
Abdallah Omar, Deputy Director of the Department of Environment, then summarized
20



the currently identified environmental and social impacts of the Project during and after
implementation. Next, Mr. Roger Gorham (MNSID) summarized the scope of World
Bank involvement in the Project, focusing on the credit itself, and technical assistance
during preparation and implementation. He also discussed briefly Project preparation
funds made available through the PHRD program.
4.   Comments. A discussion period followed, during which the following points were
raised and discussed:
* There was some concern that the road would degrade even more before rehabilitation
would begin. Mr. Awaleh explained that the Project preparation timetable was tightly
constrained for just this reason. Mr. Allemand of the World Food Program indicated
that his agency has proposed the financing of emergency continuous grading and
basic maintenance of the road, starting in late May 2000, until the Bank-financed
rehabilitation Project begins implementation, in order to keep the road open for food
aid and other traffic over the next several months.
* There was also concern expressed that traffic accidents along the RN 1, particularly
those involving hazardous materials spills, were not addressed quickly enough, and
that the Project should envision the inclusion of some kind of brigade to handle such
emergencies. Mr. Awaleh expressed the Government's belief that such a brigade
should be the responsibility of the private sector - that is, the road users themselves.
Mr. Gorham pointed out that there are some Technical Assistance provisions in the
Project for both axle load controls and a road safety component (to be determined
later), and that while such a brigade may be out of the scope of this Project, some of
these concerns will be taken into account by these other components.
* Some concern was expressed about the need for a road connection to Ethiopia via Ali
Sabieh and Dire Dawa, since such a connection would be a more direct link to the
famine area. It was explained that such a large scale decision was not in the scope of
the proposed IDA-financed Project, but that the question would be looked at in detail
in the EU-financed study now beginning work.
5.   Minutes of Public Consultation in Dikhil. Mr. Guedi greeted Mr. Awaleh and the
World Bank representatives on behalf of the District, and thanked them for their
attendance. He then introduced local invitees in attendance. Next, he gave a brief
description of Dikhil District, which is organized into three administrative centers, two of
which (Dikhil and Yoboki) are directly impacted by the proposed rehabilitation. He also
briefly discussed the Government's decentralization initiative, which is creating regional
councils in all the Districts.
6.   Summary of Proposed Project. Mr. Awaleh summarized the proposed Project,
including its components, the structure of the construction team, and the timeline for
implementation. Mr. Gorham then summarized the scope of World Bank involvement in
the Project, focusing on the credit itself, and technical assistance during preparation and
implementation. He also discussed briefly Project preparation funds made available
through the PHRD program. As Mr. Dini was unable to attend the Public Consultation in
21



Dikhil, Mr. Awaleh summarized the likely enviromnental and social impacts of the
Project. These presentations were all translated periodically into Somali.
7.   Key Issues. Mr. Guedi indicated his own satisfaction with the progress and nature
of the proposed Project, indicating that the condition of the road has had significant
negative consequences on vanous aspects of economic life in Dikhil District, including
degradation of agricultural products because of dust and damage during transport and the
loss of entrepreneurial activity near the roadside because of the impact of road dust.
8.   Comments. A discussion period followed, during which the following points were
raised and discussed:
* A local health department official in Yoboki identified asthma as one of the
significant health problems in Yoboki (particularly among children), presumably
because of the presence of road dust.
* Concern was expressed about the location of the police station at the entry of Dikhil;
the location posed a potential hazard because trucks might lose control on the descent
into the town and would not be able to avoid hitting it. Mr. Awaleh explained that
such considerations would be taken into account in the pre-feasibility study for the
long-term road options being financed by the EU. Consultants from Profabril, the
Portuguese consultant responsible for carrying out the study, were present at the
Public Consultation, and made note of these concerns.
*  Concern was also expressed about potential loss of water resources to the region as a
result of materials gathering and quarrying. It was felt that, at a minimum, there
needed to be requirements to rehabilitate landscapes following materials gathering in
order to avoid changing drainage patterns following rains, and related soil erosion.
 A question was asked about whether Dikhil-based contractors would be given
preference in the works. Mr. Awaleh summarized the procedure that would be used to
select contractors, and indicated that since speed in execution was an overriding
concern, the works would necessarily need to be executed primarily through
mechanized equipment, and that he did not believe that most Dikhil-based contractors
would qualify for the main works contracts on that basis, but that they were welcome
to submit proposals. He indicated, however, that winning contractors would no doubt
need to hire local manpower for various tasks, mostly unskilled, and that one of the
reasons for this Consultation was to alert the local community. He expressed his hope
that the consultation would: (a) allow the local community to organize the structure of
the local labor that would need to be hired; and (b) minimize potential conflicts which
may have arisen regarding local labor questions.
* Finally, a tribal elder, speaking in Somali, thanked the Bank and the Department of
Public Works for their efforts, and indicated that this Project was badly needed. He
indicated that local elders would assist in any way possible.
Mr. Guedi thanked all in attendance, and the Consultation was adjoumed.
22






Sub-Ata2chnienc I                                                      Djibouu  %leltimn  - Pa'- I  oI    '
REH.ABILETATIQN D'URGENCE DU COPRIDOR
ROUTIER DJIBOUTO-ETHIOPIEN
(Reunion du 29 Avril 2000)
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS
|NO                Nom du participant                           Departement ou ONG                           Signature
_                                    I             ou autre (B.P. e! tel.)             _ ______
;                                            ,           ,"  -T_-                                                            -I'_7
I 21 I$3 r ilA EL AT       \ 1    R3 1        !                  4,-   -o l. 6'4    
I  L  r-4 2 9-                                                    LJ 6  a  ,, (                I         ,
~~~~9 O~zA-:                                  <n AQ UO)
9  "I R      W A "I            aCW_           I                                                j                   / If
Io~~                                       e         < a                                 ,, (I
121 m n                    4       (         . cI nC ,A\   1/    : ,<
t-A ,AL4   4%uSS -C- --9E m -  ',   4
816   re'-  AL.        i L,.-- C                                ...v   \s         I                  ,      , -l
171  2,   797/b        r                       !      A    C     C)      ,e         A              _
,2;01      J et ,/> -t8 C                                                                        mV< 5t    t<;  7t 1i 
21 IZT)    j    'Z L     R           r;\ a 4IR                                  h Ce0 QAo-
221l<Lz    V,,_y,\, (         ,I -/o\n  czyte  .Z7 r                                     {        !     2 7        .
231                                                                                     D Prw< oe'l t -b !
l 2t ,-7',1,,,. I                                    __________________________________________'___________
23



Sub-Attachment I                                                    Djibouti \Eeeti'nr    - Paize    of 2
REHABILITATION D'URGENCE DU CORRIDOR
ROUTIER DJIBOUTO-ETHIOPIEN
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS
No              Nom du participant                         Deoartement ou ONG|                        Signature
ou autre (B.P. et te.)           I
251         l- c;j       Ok!A-Q  
2! 261
2 81                                           }I!
291                                          !                                              !
301                                          1                                              i 
) 1     ,f                                     _ _ _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _1__     _  _  _  _ _  _
4 0 !   1__ _ _ _ _ _ _.__ _ _ _ _ _ _I__  _
4 21                    I                     L _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _   j
24



Sub-Attachment 2                                                       Dikhil  leeting - Page 2 of'
REH-ABILITATION D'URGENCE DU CORRIDOR
ROUTIER DIIBOUTO-ETHIOPIEN
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS
N |              'Nom du participanr                         Departement ou ONG                            Signature
I            ou autre (B.P. et tel.)
! -   - g/>I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . '11
I,ol                               ,,          i                                  ,.            T         __
371                                            1
339 1 
40   1_                                                _  _   _  _   _  _ _  _   _  _   ___         _ __-_ _I_ _        _ _
411                                              _                                               i
42,                                              _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _j__     _  _  _
43 '1                                             _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ 1  1 _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _  _ _
4 51                                           !__    ____,__
471                                              _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _    I                          I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
36



I



Annex C
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
REHABILITATION OF INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
ARCHAEOLOGICAL CHANCE FIND PROCEDURES
1.  Introduction. Consistent with the Antiquities Code of Djibouti and the Cultural
Heritage procedures of the International Development Association, as outlined in the
Updates to the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, a set of archaeological "chance
find" procedures would be used for the Rehabilitation of International Road Corridor
Project (Project). These procedures would provide a mechanism for the construction
contractor(s) and the supervising engineer to address, in a cost-effective and timely
manner, situations in which buried archaeological and/or historical sites or materials are
encountered during the course of construction activities under the Project. These are sites
which are unknown and unrecorded at the time of the Project and have not been
identified by an archaeological survey or other mechanism.
2.   Definitions. The term "find" is defined for the purposes of this document as
follows:
"Any structure, object, remain(s) or deposit(s) that is of demonstrable or suspected
to be of an archaeological or historical nature whether in situ or not."
This definition covers four classes of "chance finds:"
(a) Cultural Deposits. Archaeological deposits or levels relating to construction,
occupation/use, and disuse, demolition and abandonment.
(b) Structural Remains and Cultural Deposits. This includes walls, foundations,
floors, decorated architectural stonework, architectural elements (columns,
pilasters, column bases), architectural masonry (other than blank geometric
stone), architectural fittings (stone, wood, ceramic, metal), ceramic building
materials, marble and polished stone floors, mosaics (ceramic, stone, glass,
tesserae), stucco, molded plaster, painted plaster, earthfast and rockcut graves
or tombs, and cisterns.
(c) Artifacts. This includes ceramic objects (vessels, statuary, personal
ornaments, coin dies), stone objects (worked flint, vessels, statuary, personal
ornaments, inscribed stonework, coin dies), objects made of glass (vessels,
statuary, personal ornaments, utensils, industrial residue) and metal objects
(vessels, statuary, personal ornaments, utensils, coins, weapons, industrial
residue).
27



(d) Ecofacts. This includes human bone (articulated or otherwise), worked animal
bone/ivory, wooden vessels, and worked wood.
3.   Procedures. Under the Project, the following procedures will be used for reporting,
evaluation and management of chance finds:
(a) Role of the Conistruction Contractors antd thte Force Account Uniit. Chance
finds of archaeological and/or historical materials or sites must be
immediately reported by any of the construction contractors, the force account
unit and/or other parties involved in the Project to the Construction
Superintendent or other designated representative of the Construction
Manager on site.
(b) Role of the Construction Manager. The Construction Superintendent or other
designated representative of the Construction Manager will immediately order
work to be stopped in the immediate area of the chance find for up to 72 hours
to allow for the on-site representative of the Institut Superieur d'Etudes et des
Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques (ISERST) to visit the locale, make an
assessment, and provide instructions. The Construction Superintendent or
other designated representative of the Construction Manager will immediately
contact the on site representative of the ISERST to come and make an
assessment. The Construction Superintendent, or other designated
representative of the Construction Manager, may direct crews to continue to
undertake works in areas adjacent to the chance find area, consistent with
Project design, upon consultation with and approval of the on-site
representative of the ISERST. The Construction Manager shall be responsible
for keeping the Project Coordinator apprised of the situation.
(b) Role of the Supervising Engineer. The supervising engineer (SE) shall be
responsible for ensuring proper implementation of these "chance find"
procedure. If the SE suspects that these procedures are not being respected, he
will be authorized to stop work in affected areas until the situation can be
resolved.
(c) Role of thze Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator shall provide
trouble-shooting services within the Government, liaising with the Ministry of
Transport, the Ministry of Culture, local officials, any other Ministries which
may be affected by the chance find, and the Construction Manager in order to
resolve any outstanding questions in the event of a chance find as quickly as
possible.
(d) Role of thie ISERST. The ISERST shall designate an on-site representative to
survey construction and materials gathering efforts related to the road
rehabilitation. This on-site representative shall reside at Dikhil during the
entire period of materials gathering, quarrying, and earth works. Once all
materials gathering, quarrying, and earthworks procedures have been
completed, the designated ISERST representative shall no longer reside on-
site, but may, at his discretion, survey the progress of the works. The ISERST
28



representative shall be contacted immediately upon any chance find by the
Construction Superintendent, or other designated representative of the
Construction Manager. As quickly as possible, and no later than 24 hours after
notification, the ISERST on-site representative will make an evaluation of the
significance of the materials, and provide guidance on next steps, which may
include recording, salvage, conservation and/or destruction after recording.
The on-site representative or other officials from the ISERST will work with
representatives of the Project Implementation Unit, the Construction Manager,
the supervising engineer and local authorities, to find a practical series of
measures that would promote the conservation of cultural heritage and
facilitate the timely completion of the civil works under the Project.
4.   Graveyards and Burials. In the case of the discovery of unrecorded graveyards
and/or burials, the procedures outlined above in Paragraph 3 will be used; however, the
Project Coordinator would immediately contact the Commissar of Dikhil or Djibouti
District depending on the location of the find, to assist in working with local religious
authorities within the Project area to allow for possible identification of the remains and,
when appropriate, to properly undertake relocation and reburial.
5.   Provisions in Contract and Tender Documents. These archaeological "chance
find" procedures will be provided as an annex to the Tender documents for construction
contractors and Terns of Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender
Conference will include provisions for a session on environmental and social issues
during which the archaeological "chance find" procedures will be reviewed with potential
construction contractors.
6.   Contact Persons. The following individuals will serve as the contact persons for
the implementation of these procedures:
(a) Ministry of Equipment and Transport [to be replaced with Project
Coordinator upon designation by the Government]
Eng. Mahmoud Ahmed Awaleh
Directeur des Travaux Publics
B.P. 11 Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Tel. 35 31 50 or 35 57 82
Fax. 356421 or35 3699
(b) Institut Superieur d'Etudes et des Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques
Dr. M. Gedda Mohamed Ahmed
Social Anthropologist and interim Head of the Department of Human and
Social Sciences, ISERST
BP 486 Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Tel. 35 84 32 or 34 16 17
Fax. 35 83 68
29



