Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 203 65-DJI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.4 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 1, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of January 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Djiboutian Franc (DJF)
DJF 1.00 = US$ 0.005618
US$ 1.00 = 178 DJF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                   Agence Francaise de Developpement
CAS           =       Country Assistance Strategy
CDE           =       Chemin de Fer Djibouti-Ethiopien
CM            =       Construction Manager
EMP           =       Environmental Management Plan
ERA           =       Ethiopian Road Authority
EU            =       European Commission
HIV           =       Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAS           =       International Development Association
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA           =       International Development Association
ISERST                Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de Recherches
Scientifiques et Techniques
MOE           =       Ministry of Habitat, Urban Development,
Environment and Territorial Planning
MOET                  Ministry of Equipment and Transport
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
NCB           =       National Competitive Bidding
NGO           =       Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD                  Japanese Grant for Human Resources Development
PIU           =       Project Implementation Unit
PMRs          =       Project Management Reports
QCBS          =       Quality and Cost Based Selection
RD                    Roads Department
RMF           =       Road Maintenance Fund
RMI           =       Road Management Initiative
SOE           =       Statement of Expenditure
TA            =       Technical Assistance
TOR           =       Terms of Reference
VOC                   Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:   Jean-Claude Villiard
Sector Manager:    George Tharakan
Task Team Leader:      Terje Wolden



DJIBOUTI
INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        10
3. Benefits and target population                                                       10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             16
2. Financial                                                                            18
3. Technical                                                                            19
4. Institutional                                                                        1 9
5. Environment                                                                          20
6. Social                                                                               22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       24
2. Critical risks                                                                       26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       27



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              27
2. Other                                                                                27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            29
Annex 2: Project Description                                                               32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                     39
Annex 5: Financial Management Assessment                                                   57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         62
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       67
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              71
Annex 11: Letter of Road Sector Policy                                                     73
Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan                                                    80
Annex 13: Terms of References                                                             105
Annex 14: Implementation Schedule                                                         146
Annex 15: Review of the Construction Industry                                             148
Annex 16: Review ofRoad Management and Finance                                            151
Environmental Data Sheet
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 30713



DJIBOUTI
INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSID
Date: May 17, 2000                                Team Leader: G. George Tharakan
Country Manager/Director: Inder Sud               Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: P069930                               Sector(s): TH - Highways, TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
C Loan         MX Credit       1X1 Grant       El Guarantee     L Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 15.00
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
(0% in FY00)
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      2.35           0.00          2.35
IDA                                                             2.60          12.40          15.00
OTHER                                                           0.65           0.00          0.65
Total:                                                          5.60          12.40          18.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORT
Address: Ministere de l'Equipement et des Transports, B.P. 2501, Republique de Djibouti
Contact Person: H.E. Mr. Osman Djama, Minister of Transport
Tel: 253 - 357913                Fax: 253 - 355975               Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY            I           2            3           4
Annual     9.0           5.5          0.3  1     0.2
Cumulative     9.0         14.5         14.8        15.0
Project implementation period: 4 years (including maintenance period)
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD Fon ReMv M     2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to secure, over the medium-term, an acceptable level of service on the
Djibouti-Galafi Road which constitutes Djibouti Port's transit corridor to Ethiopia, during the period when
a long-term corridor improvement scheme is being developed and implemented by the Ethiopian and
Djibouti governments with assistance from the European Union.
Following the outbreak of armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998, Djibouti has served as the
primary transit port for landlocked Ethiopia. The port of Assab, on the Eritrean coast, formerly played this
role, first as part of Ethiopia, then under an agreement between Ethiopia and Eritrea following Eritrean
independence in 1991. The road corridor between Addis and Assab, which passes some 20 kilometers from
the Djibouti border, was upgraded and improved for this purpose. With the sudden shift of Ethiopian traffic
from Assab Port to Djibouti Port in 1998, the 20 year old road connection between Djibouti Port and the
Addis-Assab Road (via Dikhil and Galafi, see Map No. 30713 attached) received a level of heavy-vehicle
traffic it was not in a condition to carry. While the Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) has repaired and
upgraded the 20 km spur road within Ethiopia from the Addis-Assab Road to the Djibouti border at the
town of Galafi, the 221 km highway between Djibouti Port and the Ethiopian border has steadily
deteriorated as a result of the heavy traffic and inadequate maintenance. Portions of the road are presently
disintegrating, posing a risk of complete failure on long sections. Maintaining this road link is critical to
Djibouti Port's ability to efficiently serve the Ethiopian traffic.
The project will finance a limited, but adequate, rehabilitation of the road pavement and emergency repair
of drainage facilities and ensure that these will be well maintained over the medium-term. This will
guarantee that the existing lifeline to Addis-Ababa -- through which crucial Ethiopian agricultural imports
such as fertilizers, as well as international famine-relief shipments must pass -- remains functional until a
joint Djiboutian - Ethiopian corridor development project, financed in large part by the European Union, is
realized. Even under the most optimistic of scenarios, the implementation of this EU-financed project could
only start in-the middle of 2002 and would take at least three years to complete, during which period, it is
clear that the Djibouti-Galafi road cannot remain in its present state without doing serious harm to the
economies of both Djibouti and Ethiopia. By providing a complementary, interim improvement of the
existing road, this Credit could also enhance the project to be financed by the EU, by allowing sufficient
time to consider all options for an efficient transport corridor from Djibouti Port to Addis-Ababa without
the pressures of having to react to an emergency situation.
Most importantly, the project addresses an urgent need. As a result of the conflict with Eritrea, Ethiopia's
only access to the sea is through Djibouti, and repairs to this road are now critical in view of a potential
famine in Ethiopia caused by a long period of drought. In the event of a famine, this road would be the
primary lifeline for supplying an estimated 1,000,000 tons of food aid expected to be needed in the near
future.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
The key performance indicators would include:
Output:
*   Shortening of the travel time between Djibouti Port and the Ethiopian border by more than 50
percent;
-2-



*   Reduction in traffic accidents by 35%;
*   40% reduction in vehicle breakdowns and vehicle operating costs;
*   Elimination of the dust problems now associated with vehicular traffic on this road; and
*   Proper disposal and collection of waste, regrading material sites after use, and use of archaelogical
monitoring.
Outcome/impact:
*   Continued increase in the use of Djibouti Port, as shown by Djibouti Port statistics.
*   Substantial completion of road rehabilitation by June 30, 2001.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: P-5416-DJI        Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/15/91
Country Background. Djibouti is a small country with an estimated population of 700,000, about
two-thirds of whom live in Djibouti city. The country has little physical resources. It is an arid desert with
no permanent rivers or fresh surface water, and less than 0.03% of the land area is cultivable. Agriculture
is limited to nomadic livestock raising. The fisheries sector has some potential but there has been little
commercial exploitation. The industrial sector is almost non-existent, reflecting the high cost and low
productivity of Djiboutian labor. The economy is essentially based on the port and the road and rail links
that lead from it, French financial assistance, including budgetary support, and direct and indirect spillover
from the French military presence. The port has become especially important since the start of the
Ethiopian-Eritrean war in 1998 and the switch of Ethiopia's transit traffic from Assab to Djibouti.
Reflecting mainly the narrow resource base, decline in external assistance, and slow-down in port activity
(prior to Ethiopian-Eritrean war in 1998) the economy stagnated over much of the last two decades. Per
capita GDP declined from $1500 in 1978 to $780 at present, unemployment has risen sharply and is about
44% at present. Poverty is widespread and pervasive. A 1997 Bank Poverty Assessment indicated that
approximately 45% of the population is poor, and 10% are in absolute poverty. Only one in three school
age children attends primary school, and health service delivery is very weak. The fiscal situation has also
worsened, with Government arrears amounting to almost 23% of GDP in 1998. Further, the lingering
effects of a sharp build-up in Djibouti's military expenditures (from 4% of GDP in 1989-90 to 16% in
1992-93) in response to an armed uprising in 1991-94 , have exposed the fragility of the economy and
exacerbated macro imbalances.
In an attempt to reverse the negative trends and with external support dwindling, the Government started
implementing a macro-economic adjustment over the period 1996-98 with the support of an IMF stand-by
arrangement (SBA), and is discussing with the Fund a structural reform program supported by an IMF
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) during 1999-02. The Government has asked for IDA
support in implementing structural reforms.
Bank Assistance Strategy. A CAS for Djibouti is currently under preparation. Responsibility for the
country was transferred from the Bank's Africa region to MNA in October 1999. This will be the first
CAS for the country. There has not been a CAS in the past partly because of limited Bank activity in the
country. Based on discussions with the Government, lessons learned from limited past involvement in the
country, as well as the country's weak institutional capacity and limited IDA funds and Bank
administrative resources, Bank assistance during the next few years will have to be very focused on a few
areas where it can make the most difference in terms of growth and poverty reduction. The most likely
areas for Bank support are set out below:
-3-



(i) Re-establishing a more competitive and sustainable macroeconomic environment. We will work
closely with the IMF, which will take the lead on this.
(ii)      Re-starting growth by taking maximum advantage of the transit traffic to Ethiopia using the
Djibouti Port to restart growth. The port and associated services are the main avenues for growth
of the economy. In the near-term, this requires investments in urgently fixing the most deteriorated
portion of the road that links the port to Ethiopia, which should translate into immediate increase in
the capacity use of the port and a sizeable growth impact.
(iii) Addressing the problem of poverty. While specific actions will need to be explored in connection
with a planned Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, likely areas of attention will be education--to
reverse the dramatic low enrollment rate in education; addressing the overwhelming needs in health
(AIDS and Tuberculosis crisis); and prepare a possible program of assistance for the poor to
cushion the impact of adjustment and inevitable decline in real wages anticipated.
(iv) Tuming around the performance of IDA portfolio and improving its development impact, which
are currently weak.
(v) Mobilizing resources from other donors around social development and poverty reduction.
Sector Strategy. As mentioned previously, the port and its associated service infrastructure, represent the
most significant avenue of growth for the Djibouti economy. While enough investments (mainly financed by
different Arab Funds) are on-going or are planned for the development of the port, there has not been much
attention to the road system. In order for Djibouti to reap the benefits of the increased transit traffic it must
repair and upgrade the transport corridor leading form the port to the Ethiopian border. The Ethiopians
have repaired and upgraded the spur of the Addis Ababa-Assab road to the Djibouti border. The current
famine in Ethiopia and the need to transport large quantities of food aid on the Djibouti-Ethiopia corridor
has introduced an emergency element into an already urgent situation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. The Port of Djibouti and the transport of goods from the port are, with the possible exception
of official development assistance, the mainstays of the economy of Djibouti. Its strategic location on the
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden's intemational shipping routes, as well as in relation to its East African
neighbors, potentially make Djibouti an excellent entrepot for the region. For various reasons related to
geo-politics and infrastructure deficiencies, this potential has barely begun to be tapped. With
unemployment rates reportedly as high as 40 percent, development of the trade and transport sectors, which
could generate considerable employment in the local economy, is clearly a high priority for the
Govemment.
Up until less than two years ago, the Port of Djibouti was the primary transshipment location for
intemational shipping in the area. However, recent developments of new ports in the region have tended to
reduce Djibouti's role in the transshipment of international trade cargoes. In early 1998, the ports of Aden
in Yemen and Salalah in Oman opened large, modem, deepwater facilities, and major shipping lines are
now beginning to shift their transshipment business from Djibouti to those ports. Fortunately, this drop in
transshipment traffic was compensated by a shift of Ethiopian traffic in May 1998, from Assab Port in
Eritrea to Djibouti due to a further deterioration in relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Simultaneously,
officials at the Port of Djibouti recognized the future strategic importance of Djibouti as a transit center for
- 4 -



goods destined for countries in the Horn of Africa, and the need to focus on the transit rather than the
transshipment market. As a result, traffic overall at Djibouti has increased significantly from 1.7 million
tons in 1997 to over 4 million tons in 1998. The new traffic mix is arguably more lucrative for the country,
since it is likely to provide greater employment opportunities for the local population. While Ethiopia will
look to diversify its trade links to the outside world, Djibouti is likely to remain the predominant port for
Ethiopian goods for at least the lifetime of the proposed project. For the Djibouti government to protect that
predominant market share, it will need to ensure the quality of the entire logistics system in the long run,
from dockside to the Ethiopian border.
Road Conditions. The existing truck traffic from Djibouti to Addis Ababa utilizes the Addis Ababa -
Assab road, connecting to it through Galafi at the Djibouti/Ethiopia border (see project map attached). This
Djibouti-Galafi road was constructed in the late 1970s and was designed for mostly light traffic during the
period when Ethiopia's principal port was Assab. The road has been deteriorating steadily since 1991,
when Ethiopian troops transited along it with heavy military equipment. The subsequent closing of Assab
port in 1998, and the consequent diversion of Ethiopian traffic to Djibouti Port, has meant a steady stream
of five and six axle trucks on an already weakened and damaged road. Traffic between Ethiopia and
Djibouti Port in 1999 amounted to well over 85,000 truck round-trips, an average of 260 trucks per day in
each direction. This route includes about 221 kms within Djibouti, of which the 102 km nearest to the
border are in extremely poor shape. The bituminous surfacing has been removed, and the other pavement
layers (sub-base and base courses) are disintegrating.
Of the remaining paved section, the first 33 km from Djibouti City was recently reconstructed under an
Italian bilateral aid project. However, the pavement of the other 86 km of paved road -- from the Arta spur
road to Dikhil -- is also in a very poor condition, causing frequent breakdowns of trucks. An international
contractor has undertaken temporary maintenance works worth about US$2.8 million financed by the
French Ministry of Foreign Affairs to improve the situation on this 86 km section of the road. However,
although the funding has been fully utilized and the contractor has demobilized, there are still a number of
sections, particularly in the Petit Bara area (about 15 km), where there are remaining road failures in
urgent need of repair. The Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) has also provided some assistance in the past
to keep the Galafi-Dikhil road section open. The sections of the route within Ethiopia are in good condition
or are being improved under another IDA credit (Ethiopia - Road Sector Development Program Support
Project - Cr. 3032-ET) approved in FY98.
A feasibility study leading to preliminary and detailed engineering designs is to start shortly, to examine
options for long-term solutions to improve the road connection between Djibouti and Addis Ababa. The
European Commission (EC) Delegation in Addis Ababa has committed the equivalent of about US$25
million to this program of road works from EU regional funds. The alternatives being studied include a new
road from Djibouti to Addis-Ababa via Dire Dawa in Ethiopia, which would probably also require
investments of the same magnitude (see attached map). However, this program will, take about 5-6 years to
implement, including studies, detailed design, bidding, contract award and construction. In the interim, the
existing road needs to be improved to handle the heavy traffic now using the road and to reduce any risk of
interruption which may threaten the viability of the Port which is Djibouti's primary econromic asset.
The US $2.8 million provided by France for temporary works on the Arta - Dikhil portion of the existing
route is considerably less than what is needed to provide even temporary relief over the medium term (5
years). The proposed emergency repair and upgrading program would include repair works and intensive
maintenance on this 86 km section. The remaining Dikhil to Galafi portion (about 102 km), needs more
extensive rehabilitation work, including bituminous surfacing and temporary repair of damaged structures
(mostly Irish crossings) in order to assure its viability during the interim period. The total program would
- 5 -



have to be initiated relatively quickly and implementation should not take more than 9 months once a
contract has been signed. The program as designed would also generate a significant amount of local
employment.
Road Management. Since 1999, when the road function was transferred from the Public Works
Department, in the former Ministry of Public Works, to the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, there
has been a considerable reduction in qualified staff in the Roads Department. The director of the
department has been appointed on a temporary basis for more than a year, and the role and mandate of the
department has become unclear. Five engineers and two technicians have been transferred from the Roads
Department to other ministries within the Government. This loss of staff has significantly weakened the
institutional capacity of the department to operate in a satisfactory manner. The staffing changes expected
are shown in the table below:
Staffing                               March 1999       July 2000
Engineers                                    8               3
Technical Advisors (French)                  3               1
Technicians                                  7               5
Administrative, accounting, clerical, etc  420             281
The Roads Department is organized into three divisions and eight subdivisions, with a total personnel of
281. There are 3 local engineers and three French technical advisors. Two of the three advisors are leaving
in July 2000, and the advisor to the acting director is leaving in December 2000, due to a planned reduction
in French technical assistance. The equipment fleet of about 160 pieces of all types of road construction
and maintenance equipment is largely inoperable because of lack of spare parts, tires and batteries.
Until 1998 the Roads Department staff was responsible for construction and maintenance of the entire
Djibouti road network, which consists of about 1370 km of roads distributed as follows:
Type          Inter-city     Urban          Total
Paved surface  441.2*        115            556.2
Gravel        209.4           85            294.4
Track         520.9                         520.9
Total       1,171.5          200          1,371.5
*) 102 km of this total includes Dikhil-Galafi where the pavement is disintegrating and the surfacing is completely gone.
Another 15km is in danger of being damaged beyond repair in the very near future, while another 55 km is at risk.
After the reshuffle of ministries in 1999, the responsibility of the Roads Department has been reduced to
that of managing the national (inter-city) roads only.
The available road budget for the last three years has been on the order of DJF 250 million (about US$1.4
million) and diminishing every year. More than half of the budget is spent on salaries. The roads
department is generally unable to spend the rest of the allocated funds -- for road maintenance, road
investments, and upkeep of equipment fleet -- because of a lack of qualified staff, unavailability of spare
parts and because the budgeted amounts are not fully released by the Ministry of Finance. The civil service
salaries for January to April 2000 have not yet been paid, and the salaries for December 1999 were paid at
the end of April, 4 months late. Despite obvious needs, this situation has contributed to a weakening of the
sector over the last several years.
-6 -



Road Sector Development.. The Ministry has drawn up an ambitious program of road sector development
initiatives which include: cost recovery to fund road maintenance - primarily through a tariff on trucks
leaving the port; axle load controls through construction of weigh bridges; and a restructuring of road
sector institutions in line with the Bank's recommendations under the RMI (Road Management Initiative).
Institutional Support would be critical to the sustainability of investments in the road sector, and the project
would supplement the EU's financing of technical assistance. A review of the management and financing of
the road sector is provided in Annex 16 which also identifies the key issues needing to be addressed to
achieve sustainability in road sector operations.
Transport Corridor Development. Long term options for the development of the Djibouti-Addis corridor
are currently under review by various assistance agencies, including the Agence Francaise and the
European Union. There are several corridor development strategies which are not mutually exclusive. One
is to upgrade the existing rail connection, the Chemin de Fer Djibouti - Ethiopian (CDE) between Djibouti
Port and Addis Ababa via the Ethiopian town of Dire Dawa. Since most of the traffic is either
containerized (most already arrives at the port containerized), or bulk commodities (dry/liquid), and the
origin-destination is of a point-to-point nature (Port to Addis), rail seems to be a reasonable option. A
second option is to construct a high quality road link along the same route as the rail link -- via Ali Sabieh
in Djibouti and Dire Dawa. Finally, the existing route, via Dikhil and Galafi, could be substantially
upgraded and re-built. Clearly, the EU-financed corridor development project will need to take such
strategic considerations into account.
Whatever strategy is adopted, the corridor development program requires a clearly specified and phased set
of transport development actions. These should encompass both physical infrastructure and institutional
development spanning the port, road, trucking and rail sectors. The program must be integrated with the
transportation planning of all the affected countries in the region, ensuring that important aspects of
transport policy, such as regulations (e.g. axle load limits, through bills of lading, etc.) are harmonized.
Presently, there is a joint committee established between Djibouti and Ethiopia for this purpose, and it is
critical that the Bank and other multi- and bi-lateral aid agencies support this close cooperation with a
coordinated strategy. Internally, the Bank has established close cooperation between the Ethiopia transport
team and the team responsible for this project. The long-term development of a Djibouti-Addis corridor is
an important component in the development of the Djiboutian economy. It would provide Djiboutians with
a sustainable development path focussing on a wide range of employment opportunities from port and rail
services, trucking and freight forwarding, to banking, hotel and entertainment services. Presently,
Djiboutian involvement in the trucking industry is minimal, with more than 90 percent of the cargo being
carried by Ethiopian truckers. A small TA component is included in this project to assist the Djibouti
Government formulate a strategy for development of these trade-related services.
-7 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Due to the urgent nature of the project and the short duration of the civil works, it is not possible to fully
address all the considerable policy, institutional and human resource development issues related to the road
sector during project preparation or the early stages of implementation. Therefore, in order to expedite the
project, the preparation and implementation has been staged in two phases. During the first 12 months of
the Project (Phase I), in parallel with the urgent road rehabilitation works, there will be a need to undertake
institutional studies and policy development activities related to the sustainability of the road sector.
During the subsequent 3 years of the Project (O&M, Phase II) the focus would be on implementing the
outcomes of the Phase I policy and institutional studies to be discussed and agreed at an Early
Implementation Assessment carried out towards the end of Phase I. A letter of sector policy (framework
agreement) outlining the actions to be taken by the Government in this respect was agreed at Negotiations,
and a signed copy was received on May 31, 2000, and is attached as Annex 11.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project components can be separated into two groups depending on the implementation phase: in the
initial phase, urgent, quick rehabilitation and repairs of the road between the Arta turnoff and Galafi, on the
Ethiopian border over a period of about one year; and a second three-year phase covering maintenance of
the road, construction of axle load control stations, and technical assistance (TA) to support, institutional
development in various aspects of road maintenance, the transport sector and port/trade related economic
development. Phase I would have the following main sub-components: (a) a low cost temporary
improvement of the National Road #1, between Dikhil and Galafi (102 km); (b) repairs of National Road
#1, between the turnoff to Arta and Dikhil (86 km); and (c) procurement of spare parts to make operational
the usable parts of the Road Department's plant pool. Phase II would have the following components: (a)
routine maintenance of Arta to Dikhil and Dikhil to Galafi sections of National Road #1 for a period of 3
years, after the improvement and repair works have been completed; and (b) construction of axle load
control stations and procurement of related equipment. The TA components will provide services to
support the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), including training for PIU staff, support
for institutional changes in the sector, facilitate the development of trade related services in Djibouti,
undertake an HIV/AIDS outreach program for truckers and construction workers and a road safety study,
and assist the Government in undertaking the project within a very short time frame. If practical and with
the understanding of the EC Delegation and the Government, the project would also implement agreed
policy and institutional recommendations of the EU financed study. The table below summarizes these
components, their costs and the allocation of the credit prodeeds.
-8 -



Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
Phase 1:                                                           0.0                  0.0
(1) Civil works between Dikhil and  Highways          12.00       66.7       9.65      64.3
Galafi (base course and surface
dressing).
(2) Civil Works between Arta and                       2.00       11.1       2.00      13.3
Dikhil, including some resurfacing,
pothole repairs, and maintenance
works.
(3) Spare parts to rehabilitate Roads                  0.50        2.8       0.50       3.3
Department plant pool.
Phase II:
(4) Routine Maintenance of the entire                  0.50        2.8       0.00       0.0
Arta-spur to Galafi section of National
Road I for a period of three years.
(5) Construction of axle load control                  0.35         1.9      0.20       1.3
stations with equipment.
Technical Assistance:
(6) Project Implementation Unit,                       0.25         1.4      0.25       1.7
including training for PIU staff.
(7) Construction management and                         1.30       7.2       1.30       8.7
supervision of works.
(8) Offices, vehicles and lab.                         0.25        1.4      0.25        1.7
equipment for Construction Manager
and Supervising Engineer.
(9) Institutional Development                          0.50        2.8       0.50       3.3
Support
(10) Trucking/construction Industry                    0.25         1.4      0.25       1.7
HIV/AIDS and road safety study.
(1 1) Strategy for development of trade                0.10        0.6       0.10       0.7
related services.
Total Project Costs                    18.00     100.0      15.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    18.00      100.0     15.00      100.0
g9



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project would include the undertaking of agreed studies, policy planning workshops and other
necessary actions during the first 12 months of the project implementation (Phase I) to facilitate a process
of institutional transformation and achieve financial sustainability of the road sector. The future role of
force account operations in the road sector would form part of the studies. Outcomes of the EU-financed
studies on road maintenance by contract would be an important element in this process. At an Early
Implementation Assessment, agreement would be reached on the specifics of the key policy and institutional
reforms, and this would be followed by a three year action program to introduce effective institutional
arrangements and full off-budget financing of the road sector (Phase 11 of the Project). A framework for
the future direction of the road sector is set out in the Letter of Road Sector Policy (Annex 11), and details
of actions to be taken during the first 12 months of the Project are in the TOR for Institutional
Development Program (Annex 13).
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefit                            Accrues to...                     Because of..
Reduced probability of complete road     (i) Port of Djibouti              - strategic position secured
failure                                  (ii) Ethiopian citizens           - famine relief, lower import costs
(iii) Rural Djiboutians
- improved communication
linkages
Reduced round-trip time for trucking     (i) Ethiopian and Djiboutian      - time savings/better vehicle
operations                               truck owners and operators        utilization
(ii) Port of Djibouti            - competitiveness strengthened
Improved road surface                    (i) Ethiopian and Djiboutian      - reduced vehicle operating cost
truck owners and operators       - improved road safety
(ii) Rural Djiboutians           - reduced road dust
Increased economic activity along        Rural Djiboutians                 - More opportunity for roadside
roadway                                                                    entrepreneurial activity
- Better grazing conditions for
livestock
Improved access to Djibouti City and its   Rural Djiboutians               Better communications
markets/services from rural areas
Positive trade-related employment        Djibouti City and countryside     - a strengthening of the strategic
effects                                                                    position of the port in the short to
medium term
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. As explained above, in order to expedite processing, the project would be
prepared and implemented in two phases, Phase I being the road rehabilitation works (about I year) and
Phase II being institution building and operation and maintenance (about 3 years), with some of the
preparation of the second phase being carried out during implementation of the first. In developing the
institution building component, the experience under the previous IDA financed project (See below -
Lessons Learned) would be taken into account, and a detailed plan for this component would be agreed at
- 1 0 -



an Early Implementation Assessment carried out towards the end of the first phase, i.e. about a year from
project effectiveness.
Institutional Arrangements. The project would be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
established within the Ministry of Equipment and Transport. This unit would be delegated full authority by
the Government to make efficient managerial decisions and to authorize all payments under the Project.
The PIU would sign all civil works contracts, goods contracts and technical assistance contracts, and
operate the Financial Management System and the Special Account for the project. The Project Director,
in charge of the PIU, should have sufficient rank and authority to obtain quick decisions from the country's
top decision makers and should have the capacity to execute decisions rapidly. A consulting firm would
assist the PIU and be responsible for all construction management. This Construction Manager, recruited
internationally, would be based in Dikhil, at the Roads Department's workshop and road camp. The
Construction Manager would oversee and coordinate the work of the various subcontractors, as well as a
Force Account unit which would be assigned to the Construction Manager for the life of the construction
period. The Construction Manager will have direct responsibility for organizing and directing the work of
this Force Account unit. The various construction contractors - currently, three are envisioned - would
be coordinated and monitored by the Construction Manager, but would sign contracts directly with the
Project Implementation Unit.
Control of quality of works undertaken by the Force Account Unit and local sub-contractors would be the
responsibility of an independent Resident Supervision Engineer, to be recruited internationally. Because of
the urgency of the situation, it may be desirable to begin some activities related to implementation -- such
as production of aggregate - early, and this would be explored by project preparation consultants who
would also prepare bidding documents prior to the appointment of the Construction Manager. The Terms
of Reference of the consultants, Construction Manager and the Supervision Engineer are attached as Annex
13.
The above implementation arrangements are critical for a successful, fast track completion of the physical
components of the project. IDA no-objection to the shortlist of consulting firms and the 'request for
proposal' package was given at Negotiations, and appointment of the Construction Manager and the
Supervision Engineer is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Financial Management. The Project will be implemented by a PIU, which will be in charge of project
financial management, including all accounting functions and reporting activities. The PIU will include an
Accountant who will report to the PIU's Project Director. The appointment of the Accountant will be a
Condition of Effectiveness. Immediately after Negotiations, a consultant will begin working with the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport to establish a project financial management system, which will
include documented accounting policies/procedures and the budgeting process, a manual accounting
system, internal controls and reporting tools to be used by the PIU. A Bank-executed Japanese Policy and
Human Resource Development Fund (PHRD) Grant could be available to fund the services of the
consultant. As an interim mechanism, and to avoid delaying Credit Effectiveness, the Project will utilize a
manual accounting system until a computerized system is tested and fully operational, which is expected to
be about five months after effectiveness. Prior to effectiveness, a Financial Management Specialist, or the
external auditor under the supervision of the Financial Management Specialist, will certify that the
financial management system is satisfactory. The establishment of a project financial management system,
including a manual accounting system, internal control mechanisms and documented operational policies
and procedures, as detailed in the action plan, is a Condition of Credit Effectiveness. A work plan for
developing appropriate accounting systems and procedures is included in Annex 5. The work plan was
agreed at Negotiations.
- 11 -



A Special Account will be opened at the Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie and managed by the PIU.
Signatories on the Special Account will include the PIU Director and the Minister of Finance All
transactions would be reviewed and approved by the Accountant and Project Director.
Project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be subject to external auditing by a
qualified auditor acceptable to IDA and under agreed terms of reference. The PIU will submit annual
audited financial statements to IDA within three months following the end of the fiscal year; the first such
report will be due March 31, 2001. The appointment of a qualified auditor is a Condition of Effectiveness,
and a shortlist of qualified auditors was agreed between the Borrower and IDA at Negotiations. The
auditor's terms of reference will include the submission of a "management letter" regarding the PIU's
internal controls and financial management system and procedures no later than six months after
effectiveness.
Since construction of the project roads is expected to last one year only, the Borrower opted to use
traditional methods of disbursement, which include SOEs. Replenishment of the Special Account will be
based on eligible expenditures presented in the SOE. While PMR-based disbursements will not be used for
this project, the borrower agreed to submit quarterly transitional PMRs based on the Cash Model found in
Annex 7 of the Bank's "Project Financial Management Manual" (1-A, 3-A, 3-B, 3-C, 3-D) beginning
October 31, 2000, and full PMRs beginning December 31, 2001.
D. Pro ect Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Given the advanced stage of deterioration on the present roadway, creating a situation of extreme urgency,
no real alternatives to the low-cost, temporary restoration works have been considered. Many options which
are quite viable in the long run, such as an alternative alignment or upgrading the rail connection (CDE),
would be unable to meet the project objective of keeping the land connection to the port open in the near
future. However, alternative implementation options were considered in view of the need for a speedy
implementation. These are: (i) a conventional ICB contracting procedure; (ii) a design-build contracting of
the works including a five year defects liability (maintenance) period of the contractor; (iii) several small
contracts bid locally under NCB; and (iv) undertaking the works using a Management Contract and local
subcontracting, using possibly also the equipment and staff of the Roads Department to undertake some
works including subsequent maintenance.
The construction industry in Djibouti consists of small contractors, who have not executed a single contract
in the amount estimated for the emergency repairs of the Arta - Galafi road. Annex 15 provides a detailed
assessment of the Local Construction Industry. A typical large contract has been in the range of US$ 2 to 3
million by the largest contractors. Two international contractors are resident, in a small way, but they
require two months to marshal additional equipment resources necessary for implementation of all civil
works under one contract. In addition, the Roads Department has not managed a project of this size, and its
technical staff is limited in numbers and experience. All of these factors must be taken into account when
selecting the quickest and most effective way to start and complete this emergency project. For these
reasons, option (iii) was rejected, although a major consideration is to maximize the use of local resources,
including people and equipment. Option (ii), design-build, required the most front end time for definition by
the client, preparation by the bidders, evaluation and award. This would also be a major innovation as far
as the MOET is concerned, and could prove counterproductive in an emergency situation. The earliest field
work envisioned would be the first quarter of 2001 under this format, with little control of speed of
- 12 -



execution. Of the two viable options remaining, the conventional ICB was rejected for two reasons: (a) the
contract work would not be initiated before the end of the year due to the time required to tender, award and
mobilize on an ICB basis and; (b) this drastically would minimize the use of the local Djiboutian
construction industry and thereby not create the local capacity necessary for future maintenance of the
road. There is no one single contractor located in Djibouti who could execute the works with existing
resources. In effect all contractors would be forced to mobilize equipment from outside Djibouti to
undertake the whole contract within a short time period, an extra mobilization time estimated to be at least
two months.
The option selected is the construction management contract. A Construction Manager would be selected
following international competition among a shortlist of firms according to Bank Guidelines (Annex 6A).
The manager would be responsible for determining the number and combination of works and goods
contracts, plus force account contracts, that would best ensure completion of the work according to
schedule and budget. The work could be started as early as July, 2000 when it is envisioned the
management contract will be awarded. This arrangement would maximize the use of small local
contractors, existing forces of the Roads Department and local employment. It also provides professional
management expertise in Djibouti where a road project of this size and delivery requirements has not been
experienced by local contractors or the Roads Department. The construction management contract would
include the responsibility to train local Roads Department technicians and workers as a force account unit
performing construction contract work and maintenance work. A Djiboutian counterpart engineer located
in the PIU would work with the force account management unit to assume full leadership of the unit
subsequent to the construction manager's departure. Another counterpart engineer, also administratively
located in the PIU, would work with the Construction Manager on a regular basis to learn about all aspects
of contract management and control. These counterpart engineers would be selected among qualified local
engineers following an open selection process.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                   (PSR) Ratings
________________________________  _     _   _    _   _   _ ::00j ti:0?   a00i W;it0Vi;(RBank-linan ced     projectsonly)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
1. Poor institutional capacity to manage Highway Maintenance Project
the road sector;                   (Credit 1303-DJI)
Co-financing on parallel terms
2. Plant and workshop equipment    by the Government of Japan
inadequate to carry out maintenance by provided for procurement of
force account;                     equipment. Credit closed in
1987.
3. High unemployment to be addressed
by a spot improvement and
maintenance program by labor
intensive methods and hand tools.
Other development agencies
Long term trade corridor development. EU financed project -
(about US$25 million).             pre-feasibility study initiated
Planned rehabilitation and         Agence Francaise - studies
concessioning of the railway from  initiated
Djibouti to Addis Ababa (CDE).
Technical assistance to the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport: 3 expert    Agence Francaise - expected to
advisers on long term contracts.   end in December 2000
Repair of the Arta turnoff to Dikhil    French Ministry of Foreign
section of the RN #1 (US$2.8 million). Affairs - completed March,
2000
Djibouti Port Development - financed  Italy/Japan, completed
rehabilitation of oil terminal, and
container handling equipment
Djibouti - Arta turn-off Road Rehab   Italy, completed
(27 kin)
Ali Sabieh to Ethiopian Border Road   Financed by the Islamic
(US$3.5 million). Project completed.   Development Bank.
Tadjourah Road. Project completed    Financed by the Saudi Fund
- 14 -



Route Nationale 1 to Arta road. Project Financed by
completed                         African Development Bank.
Port improvement and grading of the
Project road                      World Food Program
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The only past Bank operation in the transport sector in Djibouti was the Highway Maintenance Project
(Credit 1303-DJI), approved by the Board on November 30, 1982 and closed on June 30, 1987. The
Project Completion Report for this project is Report No. 9111 dated September 19, 1990. The project
objective was to assist the Government in strengthening its road organization to carry out efficient road
improvement and maintenance operations. The project financed; (i) technical assistance to develop the
Roads Department; (ii) a workshop, equipment, and spare parts; and (iii) financing of materials for
implementation of a road improvement and maintenance program by force account. The main lessons
learned were: (i) that labor intensive methods are not practical and competitive with machine based
operations due to the rocky terrain and high labor costs; (ii) institutional development requires more time
and effort than was foreseen; (iii) equipment procurement was very slow due to inexperience with IDA
guidelines; and (iv) supervision efforts by the Bank could have been better and could have partly rectified
some of the implementation problems. All of these lessons, and the current state of the road network and
the public works plant pool, suggest that successful institutional development requires continuity and
long-tern engagement of aid agencies in providing technical assistance support.
The above lessons have partly been reflected in the project concept within the constraints set by the urgency
of this operation. As part of preparation, the team has reviewed several implementation options to ensure
timely completion of the works in the first year of the project. As a by-product of the chosen
implementation strategy, the force account unit of the Roads Department would be trained and developed.
The present weak capacity of the Roads Department was a major factor in selecting the construction
management method for implementation of this project.
Labor intensive methods have been considered, but given the general lack of casual labor in the project
area, the relatively high daily wage rate (US$ 10-12) in Djibouti, and the urgency of this operation, labor
intensive methods (for example, spreading the surface dressing chippings by hand) would not be
economical and would likely slow down project implementation significantly, jeopardizing the overall
project objective. The selection of the construction management method gives the maximum opportunity for
employment of local workers, consistent with the requirement to complete the project in the shortest time
possible. This will allow the use of small contracts using local contractors and the force account unit of the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport.
The state of the public plant pool, for which the last Bank operation provided funding, has been reviewed
by a consultant, and the current status of the equipment is provided in Annex 15. A small component has
been added to the Project for rehabilitation of some of this equipment. The usable equipment has been
identified along with the cost of repairs to make it operational. The best of this usable equipment will be
identified and selected for use by the force account unit in implementation of the Project. The equipment
that can be made operational, but is not needed by the force account unit, would be evaluated for future
disposal if so desired by the Government.
The supervision efforts by the Bank would be intensive in the initial stages of the project, but to a certain
- 15 -



extent, staff of the World Bank Resident Mission in Yemen could be utilized which can easily reach
Djibouti by regularly scheduled flights. Continuity can be ensured by Bank staffs close interaction with
the EU to ensure that long-term institutional support is provided also under their follow-up project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The staff of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport has participated actively with the IDA identification
and preparation missions, and the Minister of Finance's recent request to the Bank for financial assistance
are good indicators of a strong commitment and willingness to address the problems facing this critical
transport corridor. Correspondence from the MOF confirming the Government's commitment to the project
was received March 26, 2000. Key messages and faxes received from other agencies involved in the
transport sector in Djibouti are available on file, showing the close coordination with the EC Delegation in
Djibouti and Addis Ababa and the World Food Program. The US Embassies in Djibouti and Ethiopia and
the French Development Agency have also been informed about the Project, and coordination meetings
have taken place with the World Food Program's representatives in Addis Ababa and Djibouti.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The primary value added of the Bank's financial support is the reduction of the risk that the roadway would
become impassable for a long period of time, threatening not only the economic life of Djibouti, Ethiopian
importers and the primacy of Djibouti Port as a transit hub, but also the ability of international food aid to
reach recipients in Ethiopia in the medium term. The Bank has also considerable experience in dealing with
post conflict emergencies and addressing logistic problems in this respect. An indirect benefit of the Bank's
participation is that it would enhance the proposed corridor development project to be financed by the EU.
Also, the Bank's work in the road sector in Ethiopia permits enhanced coordination of road sector programs
in the two countries.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
3 Cost benefit    NPV=US$8.7 million; ERR = 31 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The benefits from reductions in vehicle operating costs and travel times accrue immediately to Ethiopian
truckers. However, the competitive advantage of the Djibouti corridor with respect to other potential ports
in the region -- including, eventually, Assab -- depends on both the efficiency of the port and its links to
neighboring countries. The poor condition of the road thus constitutes a deficiency which could hinder
Djibouti's ability to compete when the geo-politics of the region once again allow for such competition.
Improving the service performance of the roadway, therefore, ultimately benefits Djibouti, by strengthening
and consolidating its competitive position. The economic analysis, therefore, uses the reduction in vehicle
operating costs (VOC) resulting from the improved road condition as a proxy for the strengthened
competitive position of the Port, since it is the amount shippers would need to receive to make them at least
economically indifferent to using another port to which road conditions are reasonably good. Reduction in
risk of road failure can also be identified as an economic benefit to Djibouti, although quantifying such a
benefit is difficult. Details of the analysis are in Annex 4 and the key results are summarized below.
Using VOC reduction as a proxy for the competitive position of the Port, three alternatives were assessed.
The proposed project rehabilitation was assessed against: (a) a scenario in which the present maintenance
- 16 -



strategy of minimal expenditures is continued and the condition of the road remains as is (Scenario A); (b)
a scenario of providing five years of continuous grading and periodic regravelling of the unpaved section
between Dikhil and Galafi (Scenario B); (c) and an optimistic scenario assuming the EU project could be
completed in three years, rather than five, with continuous grading and periodic regravelling to maintain the
road during these three years. Each of these scenarios was evaluated against a high-traffic-growth and a
no-traffic-growth assumption, reflecting significant uncertainties in the geo-politics of the region. IRRs
were calculated on the additional stream of costs and benefits of the rehabilitation project over those of the
two continuous grading scenarios. Sensitivity analysis has also been carried out, to determine: (i) the
effects of potential delays to project implementation; and (ii) the effect of a change in the value of time
savings. The results, as shown in Annex 4, show that the project remains economically worthwhile even if
there were a six month delay in implementation - except for the low-growth scenario under which the
EU-financed project is fully implemented by 2003 - but the results also show significant loss of economic
value associated with such a delay.
The calculated IRRs from these scenarios were:
Rehabilitate versus   High Growth  Low Growth   Low Growth
& 6-mth delay
A. Continuous grading   48 %         31 %          15%
5 years
B. Continuous grading:
3 years        27 %           13 %          -8%
C. Minimal Action     135%           103%          71%
Scenario A: assumes EU-financed project will take 5 years to implement
Scenario B: assumes EU-financed project will take 3 years to implement
Scenario C: assumes present minimal maintenance strategy continues
It is considered that the factors leading to the negative 8% IRR, i.e. low traffic growth, EU project
completed in three years, and a six month delay in implementation are highly unlikely. The high IRRs of
the other scenarios are common for road improvement projects involving upgrading from gravel to a low
cost paved standard, the benefits of which are significant with a high volume of truck traffic.
Regarding the specific allocation of the costs and benefits under agreed arrangements, much of the
reduction in vehicle operating costs would immediately accrue to Ethiopian trucking operations, which are
organized into five private companies, five trucking associations, five state enterprises, and numerous,
smaller own-account transporters, particularly for petroleum products. The Ethiopian and Djibouti
govemments have recently agreed to allow charges on the trucks of US$0.50 per ton (this agreement will be
reviewed as part of the Early Implementation Assessment - see Annex 16), which amounts to about $15 per
truck leaving Djibouti Port bound for Ethiopia. In the long run, this revenue level should be monitored to
determine whether it is sufficient for the needs of the corridor; preliminary information suggests that this
tariff is somewhat below accepted per ton-kilometer norms in Africa. Without detailed information on what
the more permanent transport corridor will look like, however, it would be difficult to expect the two
governments to re-open this question. Consequently, the question of road tariff levels should not be allowed
to delay the proposed credit, particularly in light of a potential famine in Ethiopia. Technical assistance on
institutional arrangements in the Djibouti transport sector, examination of the constraints facing the
development of the Djibouti trucking industry, and separate Bank non-lending assistance to Djibouti Port
- 17 -



advising on tariffs, however, are expected to address some of these issues separately.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The Government of Djibouti has established a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF), and from February 1,
2000, the RMF started collecting user charges from trucks transiting Djibouti. Recent agreement between
Djibouti and Ethiopia has established a charge of US$0.50 per tonne of goods from Djibouti Port to
Ethiopia. While a number of technical details remain to be worked out between the two governments,
anticipated revenues from the program (estimated at about $1.4 million per year) would provide sufficient
funds to maintain the roadway over the near terrm. Government officials indicated that the RMF in its
present form is temporary in nature, and that it is intended in the longer term to have a Road Fund which is
national in scope, rather than one based solely on the transit corridor. In addition, there has been some
discussion in the Government about setting up a separate fund to handle the needs of the urban street
network. These issues will need to be clarified through the institutional technical assistance program.
Fiscal Impact:
The project has been designed to minimize its fiscal impact on government finances. The RMF is expected
to finance the necessary routine maintenance contracts to be awarded under this Project's Phase II,
providing the necessary counterpart funding for recurrent costs without affecting the general budget. Due
to the emergency nature of Phase I of this operation and the current fiscal situation, as evidenced by the
non-payment of civil service salaries (backlog of 4-5 months salaries), the project has been designed to
allow the government contribution to the civil works costs to be provided through the provision of force
account road construction equipment, as well as staff costs (altogether about US$ 2 million for a 30 km
road section planned to be implemented through force account). In this way, the uncertainties of
counterpart funds for the project is not expected to affect the urgent implementation of the corridor repair
works.
Financial Management Issues. The main financial management risk is that the development of a fully
computerized financial management system with adequate procedures and staffing at the PIU will delay
Credit Effectiveness and project implementation. To mitigate this risk, the PIU will use a manual
accounting system with adequate intemal control mechanisms, as detailed in the work plan (see Annex 5),
until a computerized system is developed and operational, which is expected to be about five months after
effectiveness. The establishment of a manual accounting system with adequate intemal control mechanisms
and documented operational policies and procedures is a Condition of Effectiveness. Implementation of the
financial management work plan will necessitate close supervision starting immediately after Negotiations.
Current review of IDA's portfolio in Djibouti indicates that audit reports are not received on time. To help
ensure that audit reports for this project are received on time, the appointment of an independent extemal
auditor with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA under agreed terms of reference is a Condition
of Effectiveness. Audit reports must be submitted to IDA within three months following the fiscal year-end
of the project implementing organization. The Credit Agreement requires that these auditing arrangements
remain in place for the duration of the project.
- 18 -



3. Technical:
The Djibouti Roads Department and Ethiopian Roads Authority agreed in early 1999 that the roadway had
deteriorated so significantly that it would be easier to drive on if the surface layer were removed. This was
implemented jointly in the spring of 1999, and since mid-1999, trucks have been riding directly on the base
course of the existing road between Dikhil and Galafi. This has caused the base course material to be
crushed by heavy trucks and, presently there is deep rutting and large sections with corrugations
developing, making the ride extremely rough. This has destroyed the physical properties of the existing
layers, making rehabilitation more complicated and costly. There are also signs that oversized material has
been used for the base course and the sub-base layers in some places, indicating inadequate quality control.
The only option seems to be to reconstruct the pavement on the Dikhil to Galafi section (102 km) and on a
15 km long section of Arta turnoff- Dikhil in the Petit Bara area. This would be carried out by installing a
new crushed base course after grading and compacting the existing running surface, followed by a
regulating sub-base course layer. The plan is to put on a black top that can last about 5 years (single or
double surface dressing). The design standard would be a 6.5 m carriageway with no shoulders. If the EU
project follows the same alignment, it would then widen the road to provide full shoulders and asphalt
concrete surfacing, except that in some sections the EU financed project is expected to provide bypass
roads at major settlements along the road. Repair and other maintenance work will also have to be done on
some culverts and many of the "Irish crossings", some of which have collapsed completely, and these would
need to be completely rebuilt under the EU-financed project.
There is no shortage of material along the road for crushed base course. There are several existing material
sites mostly in wadis, from the time when the road was first constructed, and these can be opened again and
used for the the construction works. Water for compaction is necessary and generally available, though it
may have to be transported over some distance for locations where the water table is very low. To address
these implementation details and facilitate a speedy implementation of the project, three consultants
financed under the PHRD Grant will arrive in Djibouti in May to: (i) review the existing material sites and
to verify which ones to use, (ii) deternine which bore-holes to use for supply of construction water, (iii)
prepare concept pavement designs to verify that the original design of the road is the best way of
restoration/reconstruction, (iv) prepare plans for force account work, and (v) prepare typical standardized
bidding documents for material production and sub-contracting ahead of the arrival of the Construction
Manager. These consultants have been identified and are expected to have largely completed their
assignment by end-June.
These plans would be coordinated with the Ethiopian Roads Authority to ensure continued maintenance of
the road beyond the border.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport would be the
Government's Executing Agency for this operation. It would be strengthened to take on this task by the
recruitment of a Construction Management team and by the appointment of a Resident Supervision
Engineer.
- 19 -



4.2 Project management:
The most appropriate contracting arrangement has been considered carefully, due to the urgent nature of
the works, the inadequate implementing capacity of the Roads Department, and a weak local road
construction industry. The appointment of a construction manager has been accepted in principle by the
Government as the best way to manage the project. The manager would make the final decision on the
most efficient use of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) with local and regional contractors for works
and aggregates production, as well as the use of the force account unit for some works and aggregates
production. The present plan of the Government is to have three smaller contracts, each about 20-25 km
long, carried out by local contractors, and a section of about 30 km undertaken by one or two force account
units. The force account unit would also be used for maintenance works and early grading of the road.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There is a need to act quickly, and shorten the bidding and contract award period. In the past, award of
contracts in the transport sector has taken a long time, as much as 7 months between completion of the
evaluation report and final contract signature. This excessive time to award contracts needs to be avoided
for the proposed project, and the proposed implementation arrangements have been designed to reduce the
approval process to one month, and the number of signatures by Government officials from as many as 7
signatures to 2 only. The procurement risk rating is 'modest'. Normally, the Roads Department of the
MOET would have been the implementing agency. However, due to the weak capacity of the department
and the difficulty involved in strengthening it to be responsible for this project when salaries of staff cannot
be guaranteed, the option of setting up an independent Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport has been chosen. To reduce the significant procurement risks the
project has been strengthened with a Construction Manager to assist in undertaking all bidding, evaluation
and award of contracts under the project. The PIU would have to review and endorse the CM's
recommendations and provide two signatories on any contract, one by the PIU Director and the other by the
Minister of Finance or a person from his ministry delegated this responsibility. The possibility of force
account operations would also reduce the procurement risks under the Project. Works would be bid on the
basis of documents prepared by international specialists employed by the Roads Department of MOET
using available Japanese grant (PHRD) funds. The bidding documents would be ready by Board, and will
be issued shortly after the Construction Manager has had time to review the drafts and take ownership of
the design and bidding documents. These actions should enable contract work activity in the field well
before the end of the year.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The main risks facing the Project are the uncertainty of proper pricing of the contracts and the possible
diversion of funds during implementation for purposes other than for the Project. These risks have been
mitigated through the appointment of an international Construction Manager to manage the contracts and
the force account work force. The CM would be responsible for the setting up of accounting arrangements
for the force account unit, and these arrangements would be designed to be sustainable even after project
completion. The appointment of a Supervising Engineer with broad international quality control
experience, and the setting up of a separate PIU equipped with qualified, adequately remunerated staff
would supplement this effort and secure good financial management. The appointment of the accountant for
the PIU is a Condition of Effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
- 20 -



No major environmental issues are anticipated for this project, since it represents rehabilitation of an
existing road only, with no changes in the alignment. There are some minor impacts associated with repair
and upgrading of the road, including: removal and disposal of waste materials from road bed and disposal
of containers of bitumen and other types of sealers; risk of localized pollution of land and soils from
disposal of tires, broken parts, waste fuel, and used lubricants for heavy machinery and trucks engaged in
construction; temporary aggravation of noise and dust levels during construction; potential damage to local
vegetation by provision of temporary bypass roads during construction. Quarrying and materials gathering
activities could locally increase soil erosion from wind and water on a temporary basis. Some limited
changes may occur in runoff patterns in seasonal watercourses from these activities. Induced demand is
often a potential environmental concern on road projects. However, given the short-term, temporary nature
of this project, it is not anticipated that induced demand would be significant from an economic or
enviromnental perspective, since the road has historically had very little passenger travel, and the freight
traffic between Djibouti and Addis (predominantly petroleum products, fertilizer, and food aid) is rather
inelastic to travel time or cost in the short-run.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared for the project in coordination with the
Ministry of Habitat, Urban Development, Environment and Territorial Planning (MOE). It includes
specific measures to mitigate potential construction and operation period impacts and to address road
safety issues. Key activities in the EMP include: contract requirements for proper management of
construction waste; control measures for waste fuel, oil and lubricants; reduction of noise and dust levels;
and rehabilitation of areas used for bypass roads and construction materials. Construction contracts will
include specific environmental provisions and contractors will receive a briefing concerning these
requirements during the site visit. The plan includes measures for improvement and monitoring of road
safety. Provisions have been included for the use of "chance find procedures" for buried or unrecorded
archaeological and historical sites, including agreement with the Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de
Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques (ISERST) to have an archaeologist on-site during important earth
work and materials gathering activities. The archaeologist would be attached to the Construction Manager's
team and provided transport and office space at the road camp in Dikhil. A list of known sites in the region
has been compiled, and will be provided to the Construction Manager, Supervising Engineer, and individual
contractors and discussed during the environmental briefing.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 8, 2000
The environmental category is justified, since the project represents rehabilitation of an existing road only,
with no changes in the alignment. The environmental impacts associated with the proposed road
rehabilitation activities would be limited in scope and duration. The potential impacts of project supported
activities are well known and can be effectively addressed through engineering design, low cost mitigation
measures and proper construction monitoring. These mitigation and monitoring activities would be a
responsibility of the Construction Manager (see TOR in Annex 13).
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultations with stakeholders from national and local government, embassies and international
organizations, applied research institutes, private sector and nongovernmental organizations have been
conducted to support project identification and preparation. Public consultation meetings have been held in
Djibouti City and in the project area in cooperation with the implementing agency and MOE. A draft EMP
- 21 -



was circulated at these meetings and their minutes are included in the EMP. In addition to representatives
of national and local government, these meetings involved representatives from local nongovernmental
organizations (Association ALBIB, Association al Biri, Association of Women for Development - Dikhil
and Chamber of Commerce); embassies and international organizations (EC, France, IMF, UNDP, United
States and World Food Program) and village elders. The meetings were also covered in the national press
and on radio. The Borrower has made the EMP (see Annex 12) available in English and French to the
public at the MOE, the Offices of the Dikhil and Djibouti Districts and the InfoShop of the World Bank.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Construction Manager would include specific actions to monitor the impact of the project on the
environment during the construction phase, and a program for monitoring of road accidents during the
operational stage would be developed during the Phase I works and agreed at the Early Implementation
Assessment. Specific provisions concerning environmental, health and safety issues will be included in
construction contracts, and the Construction Manager would follow up on this. A series of key indicators
have been selected for monitoring implementation of the EMP: proper collection and disposal of
construction and equipment related wastes; routine regrading of material collection sites after use; and
regular use of archaeological support and application of archaeological "chance find" procedures. At the
operational level improvements in road safety would also be monitored in the future according to the plan
developed under the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the projects social
development outcomes.
The project preparation process has identified three social issues: (a) access to construction period
employment by local residents in the project area; (b) potential for increased transmission of HIV/AIDS at
construction sites and along the rehabilitated transport corridor; and (c) a need to improve road safety to
reduce the high level of accidents.
(a) Local Employment. The primary social issue from a community perspective is the access to unskilled
jobs associated with construction activities related to the rehabilitation of the road. It was widely
recognized during the Public Consultation process that access to road-rehabilitation-related unskilled
employment in the project area is to be organized by the local population, in accordance with custom
established by village elders and in collaboration with the Commissar of the District of Dikhil. Local
leaders in the project area have pledged to assist in seeing that this process goes smoothly. Since the
primary objective of the proposed credit is to secure unhampered and continued road access on Djibouti
Port's transit corridor for the next five years, the creation of employment, while a beneficial side-effect of
the project, is not considered to be an expected social development outcome.
(b) HIV/AIDS. Risk of HIV/AIDS infection is a significant problem in Djibouti and Ethiopia, and
construction sites and the rehabilitated corridor itself may become an important conduit of HIV/AIDS, as
roadways and trucking operations have proven to be elsewhere in Africa. Currently, Djibouti is ranked 12th
and Ethiopia 16th in terms of prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Africa, with an HIV/AIDS infection rate of 10.3
and 9.3 percent respectively. Evidence suggests that construction sites and road transport facilities can be
important conduits of HIV/AIDS, potentially exacerbated by the behavior of construction workers and
truck drivers who tend to be away from their families for extended periods of time. While the project cannot
purport to address such a difficult health problem, technical assistance activities undertaken early before
implementation of the project would facilitate the design and implementation of an appropriate HI4V/AIDS
related intervention for persons living along the road corridor, for the trucking industry and for construction
- 22 -



crews. The World Health Organization is administering funds for a program on HIV/AIDS, implemented
by the Ministry of Health. One component of this program is intended to target specifically economic and
social activities associated with RN 1. The technical assistance to be initiated before Project
implementation will examine mechanisms of cooperation in such an effort.
(c) Road Safety. Current poor physical conditions, high dust levels, poor vehicle standards and routine
overloading contribute to frequent road accidents with associated injuries and fatalities. The Project will
support implementation of measures for axle-load control and routine inspections to reduce overloading and
excessive dimensions. Technical assistance for advisory and planning services and training for a road
safety study and priority implementation measures will also be undertaken. This will include evaluation of
the incidence and causes of accidents, identification of measures that can be taken to reduce accidents and
priority actions to be implemented under the Project. The preparation of this study will be coordinated with
the Port of Djibouti since outbound trucks originate in the port.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During project identification, Bank staff met with representatives of Dikhil District, the principal local
jurisdiction through which the road passes. Their views have been incorporated into the design and
justification of the project, and their advice has continued to be sought during project preparation. Formal
consultations with local communities, including village elders, were held in Dikhil, and these suggested
strong support for the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As noted in Section 5.4 a range of stakeholders has been consulted in identification and preparation of the
project and this process is planned to continue during the implementation phase. This process has involved
private sector interests associated with the Port of Djibouti and the international and local trucking
industry. Implementation of the project would include regular consultations with representatives of the
Ethiopian and Djiboutian trucking industries and meetings with local government, village leaders, elders
and nongovernmental organizations in the Dikhil and Djibouti Districts. Given the short-term focus of the
project on physical works for road rehabilitation, it is anticipated that the collaboration with NGOs or other
civil society organizations would be focused on the HIV/AIDS education and outreach program which
provides an opportunity to work with groups concerned with rural health, community development and
women.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The PIU will coordinate activities regarding the development of an appropriately targeted HIV/AIDS
education and outreach program with the Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization in
Djibouti. In addition, the PIU will assist in coordination of the TA program that will follow up on
identification and development of potential employment opportunities in trade-related sectors.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The specific mechanisms would be discussed and agreed at the Early Implementation Assessment for the
Project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
-    Policy                                       Applicability
|  Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            f2 Yes El No
- 23 -



Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    1 Yes M No
E Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      C Yes ZNo
ED Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       Z Yes   No
D Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    Z Yes E No
E Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    El Yes Z No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              D Yes X No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               L Yes 0 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    El Yes 1 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          El Yes N No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Environmental Management Plan has been prepared that addresses the limited environmental issues
associated with the road rehabilitation activities proposed for funding. Provisions have been made in the
project design and budget to support implementation of the EMP. As a preventive measure ISERST will
provide an archaeologist to conduct on-site monitoring of major earthworks and materials collection and
use of archaeological chance find procedures.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Economic sustainability. The project is intended as an interim solution to the rapidly deteriorating
condition of the road in the Djibouti portion of the Djibouti to Addis-Ababa road. The longer, more
sustainable connection between these two nodes is currently under study with assistance from the EC
Delegation in Ethiopia. The principal economic risk associated with the proposed International Road
Corridor Rehabilitation Credit, then, concerns the nature and timing of the future EU-financed project. Any
quantifiable assessment of that risk needs to be weighed against the fact that the proposed credit affords the
proposed EU-financed project more time to make a considered judgement on the best option and design for
that longer term road, a benefit which is by its nature not quantifiable. The risk that traffic would shift back
to Assab during the short project period is negligible. Even if there were a sudden peace in the very near
future, it is difficult to imagine a resumption of traffic at Assab at the same levels as before the war for the
foreseeable future. In fact, a resolution of the crisis increases the likelihood of more traffic along the
Galafi-Djibouti road, because of Ethiopia's transition from a war economy increasing both imports and
exports, heightening the need for the proposed project.
The pre-feasibility study of the EU-assisted road project will examine at least two alignments for the
Djibouti - Addis road: the existing alignment, and a new road through Dire Dawa. If the existing alignment
is eventually chosen, the sustainability and risk associated with the proposed IDA credit relate to the timing
of such a project. The longer the preparation time of the EU-financed project, the higher the economic
return on the present project, although at a certain point, the risk of rapid road deterioration and high
maintenance costs will again begin to outweigh that return. It is difficult to predict when such deterioration
might begin to occur, however. The prudent course of action, then, is to design the road assuming the
proposed EU-financed project would be completed in five years, following start of construction in 2002. In
the event of a delay in the EU-financed project, revenues from the RMF should be able to keep the road in
reasonable condition for a period of time. A maintenance contract for the first three years is therefore
included as a locally financed component of the project (RMF). This contract will be designed to allow for
annual extensions beyond the initial three-year term. Effort has been made to design a project that could be
fully incorporated into any EU proposal to use the same alignment; consequently, the salvage value of the
- 24 -



proposed IDA-financed project will be quite high if the same alignment is followed. If the Dire Dawa
alignment is chosen, then the economic value of the proposed Djibouti-Galafi rehabilitation credit following
completion of the EU-assisted project would be predominantly in the form of choice value of routes to
Addis. At that point, maintenance requirements on the Dikhil-Galafi section of the road would reduce
significantly, since most of the traffic would divert to the Dire Dawa road (assuming no distortionary
incentives are in place).
Institutional sustainability. In view of the emergency nature and urgency of this operation, resolution of
sectoral and institutional issues in the middle of efforts to respond to the emergency could be
counterproductive. For this reason the project has been given a two-phased design, where the first phase is
entirely directed at addressing the urgency of restoring normal transport operation on the road corridor.
The important long-term issue of institutional sustainability will be pursued during the implementation of
the second phase of the Project. It should be noted that the Government is strongly committed to
institutional reform/development along the lines of the Africa Road Management Initiative, and hence the
risk of Phase II not being implemented is relatively small. During the first year, a detailed analysis would
be undertaken of the institutional re-arrangement options and how the financing of the road sector could be
improved. It is also expected that the Construction Manager would assist in showing the effectiveness of a
more commercialized management of road sector operations, and in the gradual phasing in of private sector
provision of road maintenance and construction services. However, given the small size of this country, the
relatively small size of the road network, the frequent collapse of drainage structures during the rainy
season and the apparent lack of a well functioning market for road services, there is a case for keeping a
force account capability to provide some road services. Training for the Force Account Unit, and the
responsibility for its operations would also be part of the TOR for the Construction Manager. The future
role of Force Account operations in the road sector would be considered during the institutional studies.
Sectoral sustainability. The sustainability of the road sector depends on timely maintenance and adherence
to the axle load limits. The off-budget financing of maintenance through the newly established RMF would
help to remove funding constraints for the project roads. A new government policy of adopting private
sector provision of routine and periodic maintenance should help in overcoming institutional constraints
through contracting out of maintenance services directly by the RMF. The EU financed study is expected
to address this and provide guidelines. Assistance under the project to support the construction of axle load
control stations and related equipment would help to reduce truck overloading and unnecessary damages to
the roads.
Financial sustainability. The availability of fiscal resources to support this Project should not be a
problem. The Road Maintenance Fund is expected to generate about US$ 1.4 million per year, which
should be adequate for the maintenance of the transit route itself; in the future, however, as traffic
increases, the revenues may not be sufficient to allow for the maintenance of the road network. It should be
noted that the recently negotiated truck tariff of $0.50/ton is not consistent with either long-term needs or
regional COMESA arrangements. During the Early Implementation Assessment, this tariff would be
reviewed and a recommendation made on a more appropriate tariff.
- 25 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Management of Djibouti Port deteriorates,  N        The trade facilitation study would address this,
and becomes a constraint for Ethiopian              and look at ways to strengthen the port
transit traffic, causing the traffic to be          operations and remove constraints.
diverted to other ports in the region.
The long term, high quality road corridor  M        Not within the control of the project. However,
under assistance from the EU is not                 the project itself would minimize the impacts of
implemented in a timely manner by the               such a risk.
Ethiopian and Djibouti Governments.
Road conditions from Ethiopian border to   N        Not within control of the project. However,
Addis-Ababa deteriorate substantially.              Ethiopia has a good track record in maintaining
the road, and this commitment to maintaining
the corridor can be expected to continue.
Implementation delay causes a loss of     M         Well staffed Project Implementation Unit
benefits.                                           supported by a Construction Manager would
reduce the impact of such risk.
Road is not maintained after construction  S        The project provides for maintenance during the
by the Djibouti Roads Department.                   initial three years after completion of
rehabilitation, and this would be monitored
during regular supervision. Beyond that the
Road Maintenance Fund will be responsible and
will have become capable.
From Components to Outputs
Availability of counterpart funds not      M        Counterpart funding reduced to a minimum. The
timely.                                             RMF provides with an off budget source of
funding, and the necessary counterpart funds for
road maintenance and axle load control.
Security situation within Djibouti and in  S        Not within the control of the project. However,
particular the project area becomes                 the short implementation period would reduce
unstable.                                           the risk.
PIU not staffed adequately, and            M        Capacity assessed during project preparation,
Financial management opaque.                        and TA provided to strengthen the PIU.
- 26 -



Contractor fails to comply with             N         Construction Manager and Supervision Engineer
Environmental Management Plan.                        will monitor compliance.
Supply of key inputs such as water for      M         Good work program necessary. Upfront TA to
compaction, bitumen, equipment, etc. is               assess materials, water and possible design
inadequate.                                           modification to take local conditions into
account.
Procurement of contracts, consultants,      M         TA to strengthen the PIU's capacity in these
and equipment is inefficient, or slow.                aspects. The implementation set-up designed to
overcome these bottlenecks.
Delays in making decisions and payments      S        A strong PIU supported by consultants would
affect implementation                                 safeguard against this. Vigilance required during
supervision.
Procured weigh bridges, equipment, and      M         TA for monitoring program, with participation
staging areas are not utilized.                       from trucking associations.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Country Risk: Political instability in the region is a potential risk to the project. The major rehabilitation
works planned are adjacent to the border with Ethiopia in an area that has in the past been subject to
fighting between Eritrean and Ethiopian troops. While the likelihood of this affecting areas inside Djibouti
are small, the operation of the Djibouti - Addis Ababa Corridor is subject to these uncertainties, and
therefore, such hostilities should be considered a risk of the project.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
As conditions of effectiveness, the Government should:
(a) Appointment of the Construction Manager and the Supervision Engineer with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA;
(b) Appointment of a qualified accountant with terms of reference acceptable to IDA;
(c) The establishment of a project financial management system, including a manual accounting system,
internal control mechanisms and documented policies and procedures; and
(d) Appointment of a private auditor with terms of referenceacceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) As condition of Board Presentation, GD has provided IDA with a signed Letter of Road Sector Policy.
(b) As a condition of Board presentation, GD has established the Project Implementation Unit and
appointed the Project Director.
- 27 -



(c) As a credit covenant, GD will maintain the agreed external audit arrangements and will submit audited
financial statements not later than three months after the end of each fiscal year.
(d) Within one year of credit effectiveness GD will conduct an Early Implementation Assessment and
agree with IDA on a program of institutional development to be implemented under Phase II of the
project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Engineering Design: Project Design, drawings and all other document from when the project was
originally constructed is available at the Roads Department. The original design of the road would largely
be maintained and hence no significant design work remains to be completed.
Bidding documents: Typical bidding documents are in the process of being completed by a contract
specialist, and will be available by the end of June for early bidding of works by the Construction Manager.
Project Implementation Plan: The PIP is in the project files, and includes schedule for the first year's,
procurement and construction activities. The Construction Manager, once appointed, will be responsible
for adjusting this schedule in order to expedite project implementation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Ii 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
n~~~~ - ietW 
G. George Tharakan               Wean- laude Villiard               Inder Sud
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country ManagerlDirector
-28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptfons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthen the            Positive trend in the use of the Port statistics.     Port traffic not diverted to
competitiveness and efficiency Port.                                            other ports in the region for
of Djibouti port and its                                                        reasons beyond the control of
associated service                                                             the Government of Djibouti.
infrastructure, which
represents the most significant
avenue of growth for the
Djiboutian economy.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Secure, over the medium term, Undisturbed continuation of, if Supervision mission reports.  Management of the Djibouti
an acceptable level of service  not growth in, traffic flows for Port statistics (showing  Port is efficient and poses no
on the Djibouti - Galafi Road  project period on the project  continued/expanded use of    constraint to Ethiopian transit
which constitutes Djibouti   road.                   port over short and medium   traffic.
Port's transit corridor to                           term). Regular traffic surveys
Ethiopia, during the period                          undertaken by the Roads    Road is adequately maintained
when a long-term corridor                            Department.                after rehabilitation.
improvement scheme is being
developed and implemented                            Regular evaluation, sector    Road conditions in Ethiopia
by the Ethiopian and Djibouti                        strategy, and CAS for      adequate for the traffic.
governments with assistance                          Ethiopia.
from the European Union.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Temporary repair and upgrade Reduction in travel time from  Travel time survey to be  Implementation delay causes a
of the road from the Djibouti  Galafi to Dikhil by 50 percent. undertaken by the MOET.    loss of benefits.
Port to the Ethiopian border,
and maintenance of the road
during the interim period.    Vehicle operating costs  Road roughness measurements The long term high quality
between Ghalafi and Djibouti to be undertaken by MOET.  road corridor is implemented
Port is reduced by 40%.                              within the time frame
envisaged.
Reduction in road accidents by National statistics on road
35%.                      accidents.
- 29 -



Axle loading on roadways is  Axle load controls in place.   Axle load statistics from the   Procured weigh bridges,
monitored, both to avoid abuse                        weigh bridges.             equipment, and staging areas
of the road system through                                                       are actually utilized.
overloading, and to assess
fairness of user charges.
Reduction in road dust    Increased roadside economic  Bituminous surfacing will    None
associated with truck      activity; elimination of health secure this.
operations on existing road   problems associated with dust
bed.                      from truck movements.
Environmental management  Proper collection and disposal Progress reports from   Contractor complies with
of road rehabilitation works.  of wastes, regrading material  Construction Manager.  contract specifications and
sites after use, use of                               monitoring Conducted by
archaelogical monitoring.                             Construction Manager.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
PHASE I:
(1) Rehabilitation of National $12.00 million         Progress reports           Selection of contractors and
Road 1, between Dikhil and                                                       equipment management
Galafi (101 kms), including                                                      adequate.
base course and surface
dressing.
(2) Repairs of National Road  $2.00 million           Progress reports,          Open and transparent
1, between the Arta turnoff                          Disbursement reports        procurment process without
and Dikhil (86 kms),                                 (quarterly)                 problems that can delay the
including 15 km of                                                               implementation.
reconstruction, spot
resurfacing, filling potholes,
and diverse maintenance
works.
(3) Spare parts to rehabilitate  $0.50 million        Audit reports (annual)     Effective involvement of
part of Government plant                                                         government agencies in
pool.                                                                            making decisions and
payments under the project.
PHASE Il:
(4) Routine Maintenance of   $0.50 million            Audit reports              Timely availability of
the Arta turnoff to Galafi                                                       counterpart funds.
section of National Road I for
a period of three years.
- 30 -



(5) Vehicle inspection and    $0.35 million           Audit reports               Adequate supply of materials
weigh bridge stations (incl.                                                      available within Djibouti
equipment).                                                                       (water, bitument, cement etc.).
Technical Assistance:
(6) Operating costs of the PIU  $0.25                 PIU monthly implementation  Staffing of the unit does not
for about 18 months, incl.                            reports.                    represent a problem.
salaries, vehicle, office
equipment, systems and
supplies.
(7) Construction management $1.30 million             Progress/supervision reports  Security situation within the
and supervision.                                                                  project area and Djibouti
remains stable.
(8) Offices, vehicles and lab.  $0.25 million         Audit reports
equipment.
(9) Institutional Support.  $0.50 million              Study outputs
(10) Studies on HIV/AIDS    $0.25 million             Study outputs               Financial management
and Road Safety.                                                                  transparent and professional.
(11) Strategy for development $0.10 million           Study outputs
of trade related services.
- 31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Background
Djibouti currently serves as the primary transit port for landlocked Ethiopia following the outbreak of
armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998. Assab, on the Eritrean coast, formerly played this
role, but with the sudden shift in 1998 of traffic from Assab Port to Djibouti Port, the 20 year old road
connection between Djibouti Port and the Addis-Assab Road (via Dikhil and Galafi) was suddenly required
to carry a level of heavy-vehicle traffic it was neither designed for nor in a condition to carry.
The lack of regular maintenance within Djibouti has contributed to the accelerated deterioration of this 188
km road section, which originally had a double surface dressing over a natural gravel base/sub-base.
Portions of the road are presently disintegrating, posing a risk of complete failure on long sections. On the
102 km section closest to the border, all bituminous surfacing has either been destroyed by traffic or
removed to improve rideability, and the road is kept passable by occasional grading. On the 86 km road
section closest to Djibouti city (Arta turnoff to Dikhil) about 18 km has recently been repaired by a local
contractor. However, this work is very short term and already requires maintenance repairs. The rest,
partly in a state of rapid deterioration, is causing accidents and is slowing down truck traffic significantly.
Maintaining this 188 km road link is critical to Djibouti Port's ability to serve the Ethiopian traffic, and
remain competitive in the long-run. The section of the route within Ethiopia is in good condition or is being
improved under another IDA credit approved in FY98 (Ethiopia - Road Sector Development Program
Support Credit - Cr. 3032-ET). The Djibouti Government recently requested the World Bank to assist in
financing limited, but adequate, rehabilitation of the road pavement as well as emergency repairs to
drainage structures, and to ensure that the 188 km road section will be well maintained thereafter.
Objective
The objective of the project is to secure, over the medium-term, an acceptable level of service on the
Djibouti-Galafi Road which constitutes Djibouti Port's transit corridor to Ethiopia, during the period when
a long-term corridor improvement scheme is being developed and implemented by the Ethiopian and
Djibouti governments with assistance from the European Union.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$12.00 million
Civil Works between Dikhil and Galafi: The works involve full reconstruction of the pavement on the 102
km Dikhil to Galafi section of the National Road No. 1. This would be carried out by installing a new
crushed base course of 15 cm thickness. The existing severely deteriorated road way would be graded and
compacted, followed by the placement of a 15 cm thick regulating sub-base layer of screened natural gravel
compacted. The works include a black top of double bituminous surface dressing. This type of structure is
expected to last at least 5 years without resurfacing. Repair and other maintenance work will also have to
be done on many of the Irish crossings and culverts, some of which have collapsed completely. The road
width (surface dressing) would be limited to 6.5 meters on a 7 meter base course. If the EU financed
project follow the same alignment, it would widen the road with a new lane for the Ethiopian bound heavy
trucks and a full width shoulder, while the 6.5 meter project road would serve as a travel lane for Djibouti
bound (light truck) traffic and provide a full width surface dressed shoulder of 3 meters. The EU project is
also expected to provide an asphalt concrete surfacing of adequate thickness thereby providing an expected
necessary strengthening of the project road after 5 years service.
- 32 -



The civil works are expected to be implemented using local contractors undertaking three contracts of
about 20-25 km each. Civil works to complete the remaining 30 km are expected to be carried out by a
force account unit(s).
Project Component 2 - US$2.00 million
Civil Works between Arta and Dikhil: The works involve full reconstruction of the pavement on a 15 km
long section of Arta turnoff- Dikhil in the Petit Bara area. The works and standards would be the same as
for the 102 km Dikhil - Galafi road section (see above). In addition, the works would include pothole
repairs on other sections of this 86 km road length and limited resurfacing to preserve the road surface from
further deterioration and extend the life by another couple of years until the EU financed project can
provide a more permanent restoration and improvement. The 15 km road contract would be tendered
locally or carried out by force account.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.50 million
Rehabilitate Roads Department's Eguipment Pool: An international equipment specialist has inspected the
fleet of equipment and determined rehabilitation needs. The best pieces for use in the force account
operations on the project will be selected by the Construction Manager. An updated list of repairs and
parts (with cost estimates) required to bring all the usable equipment up to a level of good operating
condition, is being prepared by the same specialist.
Project Component 4 - US$0.50 million
Routine Maintenance of the entire Arta-spur to Galafi: A performance based road maintenance contract
for 3 years would be awarded to a local contractor to preserve the full 188 km road section and in
particular the Irish crossings and other drainage structures to provide unrestricted flow of traffic also
during rains. This maintenance concession would be extendable and would be based on the outcome of the
EU financed study on road maintenance by contracts, and assist in providing experience with this form of
regular road maintenance. This component would be funded by the Road Maintenance Fund.
Project Component 5 - US$0.35 million
Axle Load Control station: The project would finance the construction of two small control stations, one
near Djibouti City and another at the border post of Galafi. These two stations would control vehicle
dimensions, axle loads and gross vehicle weights and carry out road worthiness checks of vehicles entering
Djibouti to make sure that vehicle lights etc. are in good working order. The cost of manning these stations
would be the responsibility of the Road Maintenance Fund.
Equipment for the Weigh Bridge Station: The project would finance the necessary axle load control scales
and the recording instruments, accurate enough to allow enforcement of axle load limits and gross vehicle
weight limits. The equipment is expected to be located close to the port and at Galafi, and will be operated
by the RMF staff collecting road user charges.
Project Component 6 - US$0.25 million
Project Implementation Unit: The project would be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
established within the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MOET). This unit would be based in
Djibouti city and delegated full authority by the Government to make efficient managerial decisions and to
authorize all payments under the Project. The PIU would operate the Financial Management System and
the Special Account for the project. The Project Director, in charge of the PIU, should have sufficient
rank to obtain quick decisions from the country's top decision makers and should have the capacity to
execute decisions rapidly. The Government would provide office space for the unit and second staff to it.
- 33 -



However, other costs related to the unit would be financed under the project. These costs are related to the
establishment of a financial management system, accounting and auditing, and the processing of invoices
and claims, and would include the cost of staff recruited from outside civil service.
Project Component 7 - US$1.30 million
Construction management consultant and supervisor of the works consultant:
Construction Manager (CM). The objectives of the assignment are to provide construction management
services through the pre-construction, construction and start of the maintenance phase. The construction
manager's main goal is to ensure that the work is properly completed in accordance with the project
specification and schedule.
The manager will select the contracting methodology, including, but not limited to, competitively bid
contracts for works and goods, and use of the MOET equipment and personnel to perform works, and
maintenance contracts. The manager will use previously prepared bidding documents, perform bid
evaluations and award construction contracts with the concurrence of the PIU. Supervision of the works
will be by other consultants who will report directly to PIU. The manager will also select and manage
MOET equipment, personnel and a road camp and repair shop at Dikhil. This will in effect create a force
account unit to allow the CM an additional option for carrying out the repair and maintenance of the road.
A preliminary assessment is that the team of the CM would comprise at least, a Project Manager (with
experience of construction, repair and maintenance of national roads), a general field superintendent and a
supervisor for the force account unit. The equipment operators, mechanics, laborers, office staff, force
account staff, and some field survey staff will be provided by the Government, and their availability has
been confirmed.
The construction manager will manage the works and administer the works contracts and ensure that
contractual clauses whether related to quality or quantities of work, are carried out. It will determine the
most effective and economical way to implement the project. In carrying out his duties, the construction
manager will ensure that the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan are implemented. He will
also be responsible for safety and efficiently rerouting traffic during construction, and will have to secure
that the movement of truck traffic during construction is no worse than before construction.
The Supervision Engineer would provide pre-construction and construction supervision services. The
scope of the services will include:
(a)    verification, adjustment where necessary, and assumption of responsibility for the following items
prepared previously by specialist consultants:
(i)    an outline pavement design(s) to bituminous standard and typical cross-sections for the
rehabilitation of the road to carry the projected traffic for a relatively short life span of 5
years;
(ii)   the scope of temporary repairs of minor drainage structures along the road consisting of
concrete box culverts and Irish crossings ; and
(b)    supervising the works contracts on behalf of MOET with regard to quality assurance and
contractual compliance including the following activities:
(i)    supervising the construction works contracts to ensure that contractual clauses, whether
related to quality or quantities of work, are respected;
(ii)    undertaking the necessary quality control of works;
(iii)   making all engineering decisions - including improvement of designs, if necessary -
required for the good implementation of the contract;
- 34 -



(iv)   making amendments to or extensions of the sources of materials identified previously by
the specialist consultants to meet the necessary production targets.
The supervision team would include at least a Chief Supervision Engineer and one Supervision Engineer
with extensive experience of road construction supervision and a sound knowledge of materials testing and
utilization in pavements as well as thorough familiarity of quality control procedures in environments
similar to that prevailing in the project area. A number of government support staff would be required to
support the supervision engineer (surveyors, soils technicians, inspectors, etc).
Project Component 8 - US$0.25 million
Offices, Vehicles and labaratory Equipment for Supervising Engineer, Construction Manager and PIU:
This is normally provided by the construction contractor as part of the contract. In order to avoid
duplication and possibly make a saving on the provision of these facilities, the procurement of these
facilities would be carried out by the Construction Manager through international shopping procedures.
The facilities will be managed by the force account unit during implementation of the works, and would be
taken over by the new road administration at the end of the construction works.
Project Component 9 - US$0.50 million
Institutional Development Support: A framework agreement between the government and IDA on the
future direction of the road sector, including management and financing of roads was agreed as part of the
preparation of the project. This sub-component of the project would finance agreed studies, workshops and
other necessary actions during the first 12 months of the Project to facilitate a process of defining the
institutional transformation necessary as well as actions to achieve financial sustainability of the road
sector with concrete steps and a time bound program. This program would be discussed and agreed with
the government at an Early Implementation Assessment of the Project, and a three-year action program
would introduce effective institutional arrangements and full off budget financing of the road sector. The
sub-component would support this transformation. Terms of Reference for this sub-component was
discussed and agreed at negotiations and is included as Annex 16.
Project Component 10 - US$0.25 million
Studies on HIV/AIDS and Road Safety: Risk of HIV/AIDS infection is a significant problem in Djibouti
and Ethiopia, and the rehabilitated road corridor may become an important conduit of HIV/AIDS, as
roadways and trucking operations have proven to be elsewhere in Africa. Currently, Djibouti is ranked 12th
and Ethiopia 16th in terms of prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Africa, with an HIV/AIDS infection rate of 10.3
and 9.3 percent respectively. While the project cannot purport to address such a difficult health problem,
this sub-component would undertake technical assistance activities early before completion of the project to
facilitate the design and implementation of appropriate HIV/AIDS related interventions targeting
specifically economic and social activities associated with RN 1, the trucking industry and construction and
maintenance crews. A small traffic safety study (road safety audits will also be carried out in order to
define measures to be undertaken to reduce truck accidents.
Project Component 11 - US$0.10 million
Study on Development of Trade-related Services in Diibouti: The long-term development of a
Djibouti-Addis corridor is an important element in the development strategy for the Djiboutian economy. It
would provide Djiboutians with a sustainable development path focusing on a wide range of employment
opportunities from port and rail services, trucking and freight forwarding, to banking, hotel and
entertainment services. This small TA sub-component is included to assist the Djibouti Government
formulate a strategy for development of these trade-related services in Djibouti. The study would define a
corridor development program requiring a clearly specified and phased set of transport development
- 35 -



actions. These should encompass both physical infrastructure and institutional development spanning the
port, road, trucking and rail sectors. The program must take into account the transportation planning of
other affected countries in the region, and aim at harmonizing important aspects of transport policy, such
as regulations (e.g. axle load limits, through bills of lading, etc.). TORs for this assistance are included in
Annex 13.
- 36 -



Cost Estimate of the Civil Works
In order ro refine the cost estimate for the civil works, a cost estimate for a thirty five (35) km section of
Dikhil - Galafi road repair work was made based on observations of the condition of the road by the
appraisal mission in April, 2000. The mission estimated the cost based on repairing the road to a standard
that will sustain over three to four hundred heavily loaded tandem trucks travelling on the road in each
direction over a five-year period. The repair method selected consists of scarifying and preparing the badly
deteriorated sub base to receive an average of 15 cm of gravel to restore the sub grade. 15 cm of a crushed
stone base will next be placed followed by a bitumen double surface treatment. Repair of concrete drifts
and Irish crossings and cleaning of culverts is included as well as the costs of detours for traffic off the
existing road. The costs so determined have been extrapolated to estimate the full 102 km of highway from
Dikhil to Galafi if implemented in two or three contracts and one 30 km force account section. The section
to be executed by force account is assumed to be as expensive as the sections implemented by private
contractors. Also the repair works at the Petit Bara section is expected to be executed in the same manner
and estimated to cost as much per kilometer as the Dikhil-Galafi section. The table below provides unit
prices used to develop the estimate for the 35 km section, which was then extrapolated to arrive at the total
cost of civil works. Detailed cost estimate based on labor costs, equipment usage, productivity, etc. is
available in the Project File.
ITEM                         QUANTITY                  UNIT PRICE          TOTAL PRICE
MOBILIZATION                 LUMP SUM                  1                   $320,000
DETOURS                      LUMP SUM                  1                   $420,000
RESTORE                      CUBIC METER               $ 9.84              $531,921
SUB BASE
BASE COURSE                  CUBIC METER               $48.77              $1,869,290
DOUBLE SURFACE               SQUARE METER              $1.99               $488,411
TREATMENT
DRIFTS                       EACH                      $18,279             $54,838
IRISH CROSSINGS              EACH                      $25,502             $51,004
FINAL SHAPING,               LUMP SUM                  1                   $149,536
CLEANUP AND
DEMOBILIZATION
TOTAL PRICE                                                                $3,885,000 (35 km)
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ProecttCost By;-Component         i         US $tilliori   U    in    us $m11itlio0
Phase I:                                                                                  0.00
(1) Civil Works, Dikhil to Galafi                              4.15          6.95          11.10
(2) Civil Works, Dikhil to Arta                                0.60          1.20           1.80
(3) Spare parts to rehabilitate part of Government plant pool                0.50          0.50
Phase II:
(4) Routine Maintenance                                        0.20          0.30          0.50
(5) Vehicle inspection and weigh bridge station (1 each) incl.  0.15         0.20          0.35
equipment
Technical Assistance:
(6) Project Implementation Unit                               0.10           0.15          0.25
(7) Construction Management and Supervision                                  1.30          1.30
(8) Offices, vehicles and lab. equipment                                     0.25          0.25
(9) Studies on HIV/AIDS and Road Safety                                      0.25          0.25
(10) Strategy for development of trade related services                      0.10          0.10
(11) Institutional Support                                                   0.50          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                            5.20         11.70          16.90
Physical Contingencies                                        0.20          0.35          0.55
Price Contingencies                                           0.20          0.35          0.55
Total Project Costs                 5.60         12.40          18.00
Total Financing Required                  5.60         12.40          18.00
- 38 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Introduction
The International Development Association is considering a credit to the Republic of Djibouti of about
US$15.0 million for the urgent rehabilitation of the portions of National Road 1, going from Djibouti Port
to the settlement of Galafi at the Ethiopian border. The road has served as the primary communication
corridor for goods arriving by sea destined for Addis Ababa and the rest of Ethiopia since the outbreak of
armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998. Since then, its condition (already weakened by
movements of heavy military equipment in the previous war between the countries) has deteriorated
significantly. Today, the portion of the road between Dikhil and Galafi has lost its bituminous surfacing,
with some sections barely passable. The section between the Arta Spur Road and Dikhil has received some
maintenance attention through a French grant, but even this aid has not been sufficient to stave off
deterioration. Only the section of the roadway between the Arta Spur Road and the entrance to Djibouti
City is in good condition, owing to a high quality reconstruction financed by the Italian government.
The European Union is currently financing a regional study of options for the longer term development of
the Djibouti-Addis Ababa corridor. Options under consideration include reconstruction of the existing
alignment, re-alignment and new construction along the same route, and development of a new route,
through Ali Sabieh and Dire Dawa. Significant road rehabilitation and upgrading works are already
underway in Ethiopia for the section of road between Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa, through a World Bank
credit. In addition, the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) is currently looking at options to
develop and upgrade the existing rail corridor between Djibouti and Addis Ababa, which follows the Dire
Dawa route.
Whatever option the study identifies, however, it is unlikely that it could be designed and implemented in
less than five years. In the meantime, the Dikhil to Galafi section of National Road 1 is likely to deteriorate
substantially particularly following the rainy season and it is questionable whether the road can remain
passable during that period. The proposed IDA credit, therefore, is intended to an acceptable level of
service in the short the (next five years) while the longer term corridor development project is designed and
implemented. However, both programs are being planned so that, in the event the current alignment is
chosen for the EU-supported project, the rehabilitated road can be integrated into the longer-term road
solution, taking advantage of the investments already made.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits of the proposed credit: The Port of Djibouti and the transport of goods from the port to
neighboring countries are the primary engines of the Djiboutian economy. Its strategic location on the Red
Sea's international shipping routes, as well as in relation to its East African nations, potentially make
Djibouti an excellent entrepot for the region. For various reasons related to geo-politics and infrastructure
deficiencies, this potential has barely begun to be tapped. With unemployment rates reportedly as high as
40 percent, development of the trade and transport sectors, which could generate considerable employment
in the local economy, is clearly a high priority for the Government.
Since 1998, Djibouti Port has effectively been a monopoly supplier of port services to Ethiopia. This
situation, however, is an accidental result of regional geo-politics; once the geo-political situation changes,
the privileged monopoly position of Djibouti Port may disappear. Consequently, Djibouti needs to act
quickly to consolidate its competitive position.
- 39 -



Several aspects of port operation are key to bolstering its competitiveness against other Ports in the region
(Assab, Port Sudan, and Berbera) which may challenge Djibouti for the Ethiopian transit market. Efficient
port operations, competitive rate structures, and the reliability of the entire logistics chain, from dockside to
Addis-Ababa are among these. The poor condition of the road severely hampers the reliability of this
logistics chain, and constitutes a significant deficiency which could hinder Djibouti's ability to compete.
Improving service performance of the roadway is of significant benefit to Djibouti, providing short-term
improvements to the reliability of the Port connection, and enhancing the long term image and
competitiveness of the Port.
Quantitatively, this benefit to Djibouti is at least as great as the reduction in vehicle operating costs along
the roadway, since this is the reduction in costs which shippers would need to receive to make them at least
economically indifferent to using another equidistant port to which road conditions are reasonably good, eg
the port of Assab. (Prior to the war, the road to Assab was a high-quality, smooth-surface, two-lane road.
It is not clear what effect the war has had on the quality of the road.) So while reductions in vehicle
operating costs and travel times immediately benefit Ethiopian truckers, they ultimately accrue back to
Djibouti in strengthened competitiveness. For this reason, truck VOC reduction is used as a proxy for
strengthened competitiveness of Djibouti Port in this analysis.
Another benefit related to the above considerations is the reduced likelihood of a breakdown of the corridor
during the period that a longer term EU-financed transport link is under development. As indicated earlier,
the road, particularly between Dikhil and Galafi, is in a very poor condition. The bituminous surfacing had
to be removed, and the other pavement layers (sub-base and base courses) are disintegrating, under the
weight of trucks operating directly on the base course. Some of the Irish crossings have crumbled, and in
these areas, movements of earth for example, following heavy rains might make the road impassable. It is
difficult to know what the magnitude of such a breakdown might be, or how long it would take to re-open
the road. Consequently, it is hard to predict how such an event would affect logistics managers decisions,
in terms of sending goods via Djibouti, and therefore hard to understand the short and long term impacts on
the Djibouti economy. Such an event, however, would no doubt negatively impact Djibouti's image, both
among importers and within the Ethiopian govenmnent. Reducing the likelihood of such an event, therefore,
constitutes a significant, if unquantifiable, benefit.
Several other benefits are also unquantifiable, but not negligible. First is the need to develop the long-term
solution for the Djibouti to Addis Ababa corridor to high standards, so as to ensure its reliability. Under
present conditions, without the IDA credit, the EU study would be in a position of needing to respond both
to the long-term needs of the corridor, and to the short-term pressure to fix the road as quickly as possible
and keep the corridor passable. The proposed IDA credit will allow the EU financed study more time to
develop such long-term solutions, including allowing it to better integrate the rail corridor into that solution.
Second, and perhaps most important from a humanitarian point of view, reports are beginning to emerge of
a famine in eastem sections of Ethiopia, on a scale similar to those seen in the 1980's. The immediate
rehabilitation of the Djibouti corridor will be crucial for a sustained relief effort, and the proposed IDA
credit will help ensure that the condition of the road does not become a major hindrance to such efforts.
- 40 -



Costs of the project: While it is customary to include variants of construction methods and pavement
design into the calculus of economic costs and benefits, due to the urgent nature of this project, the project
costs are taken exogenously to the economic analysis. These have been developed separately, as a function
of technical assessment of the condition of the roadway and the construction technique needed to minimize
construction time. The costs used for the purpose of this economic analyis include about $12 million for
rehabilitation of the Dikhil to Galafi portion of the road, $2 million for spot repairs to the Arta spur to
Dikhil section, and about $1.5 million for maintenance and axle-load monitoring over three years. The
remaining $2.5 million in the overall $18 million project involves technical assistance costs which have not
been included in the analysis. Border prices were used in the analysis, which other inputs have been
shadow priced using a standard conversion factor of 0.85.
Results: The results of the economic analysis are shown in Table 1 below. The high IRRs assessed are
common for road maintenance and rehabilitation projects, which generally tend to produce high value.
Factoring the unquantifiable costs identified above would make these IRRs even higher. The low-growth
scenario comparison with continuous grading for 5 years is selected as the most reasonable case. This
results in a project ERR of 31%, and a net present value of $8,666,500 at a discount rate of 10%. Even
under the rather conservative assumptions used for the analysis, the results of the economic analysis shows
that, under any scenario, some kind of intervention is called for.
Table 1. IRRs of Project Compared with Alternative Maintenance Scenarios
Rehabilitate versus ... High Growth Low Growth
A. Continuous grading: 5          48%             31%
years
B. Continuous grading:3           27%             13%
years                   I_I
C. Minimal action                135%             103%
Scenario A: assumes EU-financed project will take 5 years to implement
Scenario B: assumes EU-financed project will take 3 years to implement
Scenario C: assumes present minimal maintenance strategy continues
Main Assumptions:
Methodology
The economic evaluation criteria adopted is the Intemal Rate of Return (IRR) based on economic costs.
Since investment opportunity in Djibouti is rather limited, a discount rate of 10 percent has been used; an
IRR of 10 percent is therefore considered the threshold above which the project is considered economically
worthwhile. The project has been measured against two scenarios of continuous grading and periodic
regravelling of the road instead of rehabilitation, during the interim period until the EU-finance project is
complete (Scenario A and B), and a third minimal action scenario (Scenario C). The minimal action
scenario conservatively assumes that the condition of the road will remain as is that is, it will not
deteriorate further if minimal maintenance is performed on the roadway during the interim period. In
reality, however, the likelihood is that the road would suffer complete breakdown at various times in certain
locations, requiring emergency corrective measures. It is not possible to know the duration or intensity of
these crises, nor what the negative impact on Port operations of such breakdowns would be. It should be
noted, therefore, that the benefits of the project relative to the minimal action scenario are probably
- 41 -



significantly higher even than the high rates of return shown. The project has been assessed for a life of
five years, but a sensitivity scenario has been constructed to test for the effect on the project should the
EU-financed project be fully implemented by in three years (Scenario B).
The World Bank country office for Ethiopia reports that imports into Ethiopia dropped about 40 percent
following the beginning of the conflict with Eritrea. It is unclear what portion of this reduction in traffic
can be attributed to the poor condition of the road from Djibouti; most is probably associated with
economic restraint as a result of the war itself The end of the war would probably bring a surge of imports
as the economy shifts to peacetime activities, but some of these imports might be diverted once again to
Assab, depending on the terms of the peace. Similarly, rehabilitation of the road might also induce traffic
along the roadway, even without an end to the war, if it were assumed that there is significant existing
demand that is suppressed by the condition of the road.
Two traffic growth scenarios have been developed to test the sensitivity of the IRR to these significant
unknown factors. The first assumes no growth on the corridor until the fifth year of the five-year project
life (corresponding roughly to a worst case scenario if the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict is not resolved.) The
second assumes the pre-war volume of import traffic will resume within four years (by mid 2005), and that
all of it will use Djibouti Port. This translates into a 13.6 percent annual growth rate in traffic beginning in
2001. Annualized 1999 traffic data from Port of Djibouti and the Ethiopian Road Transport Authority
have been used for the base year. In order to be conservative, it has been assumed that traffic is not
increasing along the corridor between 1999 and 2001. None of the scenarios takes into account potential
additional traffic caused by of international famine relief efforts.
-42 -



Table 2. Principal Assumptions
Category                                     Principal assumptions                  Justification
Project Life                                5 years                  Estimated time to completion of EU-financed
project
Traffic volume at present vpd. each direction                    235 Port statistics, May 1999 - January 2000
Growth rate in traffic along corridor:
I) end to the Ethiopian-Eritrean            13.6% per year           Assumes the 40% reduction in import traffic
conflict in Fall 2000                                              after the start of the Ethiopia-Eritrea conflict
will be recovered in 4 vears
II) end to the Ethiopian-Eritrean           0% per year              Assumes all economic growth potential is
conflict in Fall 2005                                              diverted to the war effort
Vehicles assessed for operating costs       Articulated trucks only    Observations during field trips and at staging
areas at Djibouti Port showed that, with minor
exception, only articulated (two-trailer) trucks
were being used along the corridor
Value of time                               $2.35 per hour           Based on driver wage rates along Addis-
Diibouti corridor
Average annual truck utilization, before    79,000 kms per year      Assumes trucks are fully utilized on Djibouti-
improvement (km)                                                     Addis corridor (8 day roundtrip) allowing 21
days per year for maintenance
Average annual truck utilization, after     90,000 kms per year      Assumes trucks are fully utilized on Djibouti-
improvement (km)                                                     Addis corridor (7 day roundtrip) allowing 21
days ner year for maintenance
Average annual truck utilization, continuous   84,500 kms per year   Assumes trucks are fully utilized on Djibouti-
grading scenario (kms)                                               Addis corridor (7.5 day roundtrip) allowing 21
days ver Year for maintenance
Average annual truck utilization, before    2924 hours per year      Based on round-trip time from Addis to
improvement (hrs)                                                    Djibouti, assuming that trucks are used only in
___ _ __   this corridor
Average annual truck utilization, before    2156 hours per year      Based on round-trip time from Addis to
improvement (hrs)                                                    Djibouti, assuming that trucks are used only in
__________________________________  this corridor
Average annual truck utilization, continuous   2392 hours per year   Based on round-trip time from Addis to
grading scenario (hrs)                                               Djibouti, assuming that trucks are used only in
this corridor
Average kilometrage age of vehicles         790,000 kms              Based on average age of trucks of ten years
(estimate of manager of one of the Ethiopian
truckine associations)
Hourly utilization ratio, before case                           0.63 Calculated, based on travel and layover time at
Port
Hourly utilization ratio, after case                            0.71 Calculated, based on travel and layover time at
Port
Hourly utilization ratio, continuous grading                    0.67 Calculated, based on travel and layover time at
scenario                                                             Port
IRI number, before case, Dikhil to Galafi (100                    15 Unpaved road in very poor condition.
kms)                                                                 Structure of road surface collapsed in many
vlaces
IRI number, before case, Petit Bara (15 kms)                      10 Paved road in very poor condition. Large
potholes require constant acceleration and
d_ eceleration
IRI number, before case, remainder of Arta                         4 Paved road repaired recently to acceptable
spur to Dikhil (73 kms)                                              conditions.
IRI number, continuous grading of unpaved                          8 Unpaved road, maintained as passable
section, Dhikil to Galafi
IRI number, after case (Arta spur to Galafi,                       4 Road will not be re-built to international
188 kms)                                                             standards of durability (IRI 2)
-43 -



Table 2. Principal Assumptions (cont.)
Categorv                       Principal Assumptions                Justification
Economic price of new truck                 $1 15,000 International price information provided by
Scania
Economic price of diesel fuel         US $.30 per liter Based on prices in Oman, plus assumed 5
cents per liter transport costs (approximation
of border price)
Economic price of lubricant          US $3.50 per liter Price information provided by Mobil Oil
Annual interest rate                             12% Information provided by Ethiopian Road
Authorityv
Truck load factor                                50% Assumes trucks empty going to Port, fully
loaded returning from Port
Imputed annual cost of continuous             $3,000 Road construction specialist's estimates
grading, per kilometer
Salvage value of investment at            $5.3 million The difference between the initial investment
end of project life                                  and $1.4 million -- representing value of
surface dressing made superfluous by EU
project -- depreciated by 50% (estimate).
The IRR has been calculated based on the stream of quantifiable costs and benefits discussed above. These
include civil works for rehabilitation, maintenance over five years, reductions in vehicle operating costs for
trucking operators, and salvage value at the end of the project life period (five years). Vehicle operating
costs are calculated using the Vehicle Operating Costs module of the World Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Model (version III). The inputs to this model are based on Ethiopian rather than Djibouti
economic costs, since these costs are almost entirely paid for within Ethiopia. Because of the nature of the
traffic using the road, only the operating costs to articulated trucks have been taken into account.
Reduction in these costs are primarily the result of a significant reduction in the surface roughness of the
road. The salvage value of the road has been calculated as the difference between the initial value of the
investment in the Dhikil to Galafi section and $1.4 million in surfacing work that would become
economically obsolete if the road were incorporated into the EU-financed project, conservatively
depreciated by 50% for the five year period, to account for its expected value when incorporated in the
future EU-financed project. The other main inputs to the economic analysis, along with justification for
their use, are shown in Table 2 above.
The table of roughness indices used and resulting vehicle operating costs for particular segments, as well as
cash flows for the various scenarios (including sensitivity tests), are shown in the attachment to this annex.
The cash flows conservatively assume that half the credit is disbursed in CY 2000, and half in CY2001.
Likewise, it assumes that benefits to vehicle operators on the roadway begin accruing in July 2001, and
that the year 2001 benefits are only 1/2 what they are in future years. All monetary figures in the cash
flows are in 1999 US dollars.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Section F of the Project Appraisal Document identifies several risks which may have the effect of slowing
down implementation of the present project, including risks associated with financial management,
procurement, and Road Department capacity. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out to capture the effect
of the delay of the capital improvement phase of the project for six months (i.e. construction terminates and
benefits begin accruing at the beginning of 2002, rather than mid-2001.) The results are presented below in
Table 3 below.
- 44 -



Table 3. Project IRRs - Effect of Six Month Implementation Delay
Rehabilitate versus ...    High Growth  Low Growth
A. Continuous grading: 5
years                         28%              15%
B. Continuous grading: 3
vears                          1%              -8%
C. Minimal action                 96%             71%
Scenario A: assumes EU-financed project will take 5 years to implement
Scenario B: assumes EU-financed project will take 3 years to implement
Scenario C: assumes present minimal maintenance strategy continues
These results verify quantitatively what intuition suggests, that if the project is delayed in implementation,
the economic value of the project decreases significantly. This decrease in value is so important, that it
would be more economically worthwhile simply to undertake grading for three years rather than to
undertake a delayed rehabilitation were the EU project to be completed early. For the others, however,
while the project would still be economically worthwhile in these instances, the size of the reduction in
IRRs between the basic results and the sensitivity scenario demonstrates the importance of timely
implementation of the project in order to maximize the benefits and economic value of the investment.
T he applicability of the hourly wage rate, calculated on the corridor at $2.35, and independently verified
with the Ethiopian Roads Authority, is also unclear. Drivers on the Addis to Djibouti run are paid by the
day, not the hour. The extent to which changes in travel time due to improvements to the road would
actually affect the wages paid is not straightforward; consequently, it is unclear whether savings in drivers'
hourly wages should be counted among he benefits. Another sensitivity analysis, therefore, has been
carried out to test for the effect of no change in driver wages. These results are shown in Table 4 below.
Table 4. Project IRRs - Effect of Not Including Driver Wage Savings Among Benefits
Rehabilitate versus ...    High Growth  Low Growth
A. Continuous grading: 5          44%             28%
years
B. Continuous grading: 3          23%             10%
vears                   I     _I
C. Minimal Action                127%             96%
Scenario A: assumes EU-financed project will take 5 years to implement
Scenario B: assumes EU-financed project will take 3 years to implement
Scenario C: assumes present minimal maintenance strategy continues
These results show that the all project scenarios are still justified if the wage / time-savings benefits are
dropped from the analysis, at a discount rate of 10%.
Other risk factors are identified in Section F of the PAD, but these relate either to aspects of the technical
assistance or to significant geo-political unknowns, the impacts of which cannot be quantified with any
certainty.
- 45 -



Calculated VOCs for various sections of RN 1.
Remainder of
Petit Bara  Arta Spur to Dikhil to Galafi  Total
Dikhil
Paving condition: before        Paved        Paved     Unpaved       d
IRI: before                         10           4          15
IRI: after                          4            4           4=
IRI: continuous grading scenario    8            4           8 a      .
Length of segment (kms)             15          73         100          188
Roundtrip distance (kms)            30         146         200          376
Total VOC per vehicle-km:
before improvement        $      1.20 $       0.75 $      1.57 $       1.23
Fuel $     0.07  $      0.04 $      0.11
Lubricants $    0.02  $      0.02  $     0.03
Tires $     0.05 $      0.04  $      0.05  
Crew time $     0.06 $      0.03  $      0 09
Maintenance labor $    0.03 $      0.02  $     0.04     )
Maintenance parts $    0.75 $      0.45 $      1.00      b
Depreciation $    0.10 $      0.04 $       0.12
Interest $    0.07  $     0.05 $      0 09  4g
Overhead $      0.05  $     0.05  $     0 05
Total VOC cost per segment:
before                    $    35.89 $    109.75  $   314.97  $   460.61
Total VOC per vehicle-km: after
improvement               $      0.75  $      0.75 $      0.75  $      0.75
Fuel $     0.04 $       0.04 $      0 04   a      :
Lubricants $    0.02  $     0.02 $       0.02
Tires $     0.04 $      0.04  $      0,04   g,
Crew time $     0.03 $      0.03 $       0.03
Maintenance labor $    0.02 $      0.02 $      0.02
Maintenance parts $    0.45 $      0.45 $      0.45
Depreciation $    0.04  $     0.04  $      0.04
Interest $    0.05 $      0.05 $       0.05
Overhead $      0.05 $      0.05 $      005
Total VOC cost per segment:
after                     $    22.55  $   109.75  $   150.34  $   282.64
Total VOC per vehicle-km:
continuous grading scenario    $  1.10 $      0.75 $      1.10  $      1.93
Fuel $     0.07 $       0.04 $      0.07
Lubricants $    0.02  $     0.02  $      0.02 ~
Tires $     0.05 $      0.04 $       0105            i
Crew time $     0.06  $     0.03 $       0.06 
Maintenance labor $    0.03  $     0.02  $     0.03
Maintenance parts $    0.65  $     0.45  $     0.65
Depreciation $    0.10 $      0.04  $      0.10 $
Interest $    0.07 $      0.05 $      0.07    &
Overhead $      0.05 $      0.05  $     0.05 r
Total VOC cost per segment:
after                     $    32.94 $    109.75  $   219.57  $    362.26
- 46 -



Scenario A. Grading for five years, high growth
Rad gwth on comdorscena                     2_000            2001     2002      2003        20041      200
Ccnduouss gai    ao, DhdA b Gaf and PFBara                 _
Czita expjendliures                         ___                                      ______0 
-Dikhil to Galati                                              .
-Arta to Dkhil_                                   _
Rouikre M     atea  eNpernd s                   345,000   345,OCO   345,000   345,000    345,000    345,
-dikhil to Gadi                                 3000    3(00X0    300,01X  3000,         300(0D      300,
-Ata to Dikhil                                   45,000    45,000    45,000    45,000     45,00       45,0
Total eperdiitums                               345,000   345,000   345,000   345,000    345,000     345,
Vehile gmwth ate                            __140                      140_c     140_       140,       50/_
Vehics per year                                 85683.0  97336.57 11057434 12561245 142695.7474 149830.
Savigs in vehice operating cost Total  =_ _           9__      =                  98          98 __91=__
Savigs in vehicde opeiatng cost Dikhil to Galafi   48        9'       gc        95          95
Savings in vehicle qmatng nst Ala to DiklN          1         3                  3 _         :__
Tot savngs                                   _           9,572,95 10,874,876 12,353,859  14,033,984  14,735,T
Total benefits                                 -345,00C  9,227,95  10,529,876 12008,859  13,688,984  14,390,6K-
Rehabik*n as ptpsed_
C'DOW o<pffa-e                                 7,000,00C  7,0CIO,OI      C         (1          (   -5,300,OOC
-Dikhil to Galafi                           6_______C  6,C OO,OOt                                  -5,3_00,__ _
-Artato Dlkl                                   1,0CI,OCI  1,00_0,__ 1_                                    (
RoLie Malei exerwdis                                    250,      500,__O   5_0,000    250,_00
-Dikil to Gaabti                                         132,50t5,000 _25,0__           13Z50Ct
-ArMa to Dikhil                                           117,500   235,0CC   235,000     117,500
Total expitens                                 7,000,000  7,250,000   500,000   500,CIO  250,000  -5,300,
Vehidcgb wta 9 te                               _            140/      140/      140/c      140/         5D/
Ve _me peryear                                  85683.E  97336.5  110574.34 12561245 142695.7474 149830
Savp in vehide oper2ing cosst TotlJ                   0        89       1781     178         178        171
Savings in vehicb opraing cost Dikhiil to Galafi             82       1651     165         165        16
Savings in vehicle opera*q oost Arta to Dikhii                71.               1'3         1 312
Tobl_ sawi_                                           C  8,661,178 19,678,197 22,354,432  25,394,635  26,664,
Tolatlbenefils                              -7,000000    1,411,178 19,178,197 21,854,432  25,144,635  31,964,366
DO i7benef                                    -6,655,0C0 -7,8IN776  8,64,321  9,84,573  11,45651  17,573,683
NPVat 10%                                     17,745,068
IRR                                                480/
-47 -



Scenario A. Grading for five years, low growth
No mlveciD gmwth on comdorsen                     20001     2001      20_      2003        20045
Ca Ys gadg m(y, Dhid b Ga naadMPehtB        _      _ 
CWi eNDe u                                  _          _         _     _                     0 Iq
-Dikhil to Galafi                           _          __                            _
-Arta to Di"Ih                              .
Rou6ire Matnrm eparjs                           345,     345,QC    345,000   345,000    345,000    345,00
-Dikhli to Galaii                               300,      300,0C   300,0    30D00       300,(0      300,_0E
-Ata to Dik'hil                                  45,      45,OC    45,000    45,000      45000      45,OO
Tda ewendu                                      345,      345,     345,00    345,00     345,00      345
Vehiie g aNhmte                             -00/ 00/ 00/                                    /_X
Veies peyear                                    85683.   85683.   85683..  85683        85683.    89967.7
Saiigs in vetid opertng cost Total          _                 9_  9_                         968    _
Savigs in vehiie operabng cost Dildiil to GaL-Ai  48   9_             9        9_          95
Savngs in vehide Tweiatng cost Arta to Dildi       1         3         3        3           3 _
Tol saings                                           (  8,426,896 8,426,896 8,426,896   8,426,896   8,848,241
Total benefts                                  -345,000  8,081,896 8,081,896 8,081,896   8,081,896   8,503,241
Rqktabtin asproposed
Cqia expendUres                               7,000,C   7,000Q,OO  _              0          0   -5,300,OOC
-Dikhd to Galafi                              6,000,00(  6,000G,OOC    _                      0  -5,300,OC
-Ar-a to Dihil                                1000,    1,000,   ______       _                0 _
Raui6e M*teeaice  e x                                    250,      500,000   5W,00      250,000
-Dkhi to Galafi                                           132,5    265,0C0   2655,00    132500Q
-Ma to D=Ii                                               117,5C    235,00E   235,000   117,500           1
Tol eerdures                                  7,00O,00,   7,250,OC    500,C0C   5Q,000    250,000  -5,300,OC
Vee gm& rabe                                _0/                        00/4      00/C       00 /4      50
Vliilespeyear                X                  00 =0 = - 85683.E   85683.0  85683.6  85683.6    85683.6   89967.71
Sa_ _s in v    _e_ie op_a _n cost, Totedl                     89       178      178         178        1
&avigsin vehide operig cost Dikhilto Galafi                 82       165      165         165        1
Savingsin \ehicb opemtng cost, Arla lo Dil                   7        13       1           13         1'
Totals Mriy                                             7,624,277 15,248,553 15,248,553  15,248,553  16,010,981
Total benefs                                  -7,000,00E    374,277 14,748,553 14,748,553  14,998,553  21,310,981
D___            _ n bereft_                  -6,65,000 -7, 707,620 6,666,657 6666,657   6,916,657  12,807,740
NPV at 1CP/o                                  8,666,57E
[RR                                               310/
-48 -



Scenario B. Grading for three years, high growth
Rapid growth on corridor scenario                     2000      2001      2002      2003
Continuous grading only, Dhikil to Galafi and Petit Bara
Capital expenditures                                     0         0         C _
--Dikhil to Galafi
--Arta to Dikhil                                           _ __   _
Routine Maintenance expenditures                   345,000   345,000   345,000   345,000
--Dikhil to Galafi                                 300,000   300,000   300,000   300,000
--Arta to Dikhil                                    45,000    45,000    45,000    45,000
Total expenditures                                 345,000   345,000   345,000   345,000
Vehicle growth rate                                             14%        14%       14%
Vehicles per year                                  85683.6  97336.57 110574.34 125612.45
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total                 0        98        98         98
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Dikhil to Galafi   48        95        95        95
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Arta to Dikhil      1         3         3          3
Total savings                                            0 9,572,954 10,874,876 12,353,859
Total benefits                                     -345,000 9,227,954 10,529,876 12,008,859
Rehabilitation as proposed
Capital expenditures                              7,000,000 7,000,000        0 -5,300,000
--Dikhil to Galafi                                6,000,000 6,000,000 _     _  -5,300,000
-Arta to Dikhil                                   1,000,000  1,000,000
Routine Maintenance expenditures                         0   250,000   500,000   500,000
--Dikhil to Galafi                                           132,500   265,000   265,000
--Arta to Dikhil                               _             117,500   235,000   235,000
Total expenditures                                7,000,000 7,250,000   500,000 -4,800,000
Vehicle growth rate                            --               14%        14%       14%
Vehicles per year                                  85683.6  97336.57  110574.34 125612.45
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total  __|_0                   89       178_       178
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Dikhil to Galafi             82       165        165
Savings in_vehicle operating cost, Arta to Dikhil                7        13'        1
Total savings                                            0 8,661,178 19,678,197 22,354,432
Total benefits                                   -7,000,000 1,411,178 19,178,197 27,154,432
Difference in benefits                         1 -6,655,000 -7,816,776  8,648,321 15,145,573
NPV at 10%                                        4,332,096
IRR                                                   27%
-49 -



Scenario B. Grading for three years, low growth_
No immediate growth on corridor scenario             2000      2001      2002       2003
Continuous grading only, Dhikil to Galafi and Petit Bara
Capital expenditures                                    0         0         0          0
--Dikhil to Galafi
--Arta to Dikhil
Routine Maintenance expenditures                   345,000   345,000   345,000   345,000
--Dikhil to Galafi                                 300,000   300,000   300,000   300,000
--Arta to Dikhil                                    45,000    45,000    45,000    45,000
Total expenditures                                 345,000   345,000   345,000   345,000
Vehicle growth rate                                              0%        0%        0%
Vehicles per year                                  85683.6  85683.6   85683.6   85683.6
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total                0        98         98        98
Savings in vehicle operating cost Dikhil to Galafi   48        95        95         95
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Arta to Dikhil     1         3         3          3
Total savings                                           0 8,426,896  8,426,896  8,426,896
Total benefits                                    -345,000 8,081,896  8,081,896  8,081,896
Rehabilitation as proposed
Capital expenditures                             7,000,000 7,000,000         0 -5,300,000
--Dikhil to Galafi                               6,000,000 6,000,000           -5,300,000
--Arta to Dikhil                                 1,000,000 1,000,000
Routine Maintenance expenditures                        0   250,000   500,000   500,000
--Dikhil to Galafi                                           132,500   265,000   265,000
--Arta to Dikhil                                             117,500   235,000   235,000
Total expenditures                               7,000,000 7,250,000   500,000 -4,800,000
Vehicle growth rate                            -                 0%        0%        0%
Vehicles per year                                  85683.6  85683.6   85683.6   85683.6
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total                0        89        178       178
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Dikhil to Galafi            82        165       165
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Arta to Dikhil               7         13        13
Total savings                                           0 7,624,277 15,248,553 15,248,553
Total benefits                                   -7,000,000   374,277 14,748,553 20,048,553
Difference in benefits                          -6,655,000 -7,707,620  6,666,657 11,966,657
NPV at 10%                                         762,212
IRR                                                   13%
- 50 -



Scenario C. Minimal action, high growth
Rad gmw& on comIdorsc m                           _        1        22       20035             _     20
cweervibres                                 7,000,t0 7,000,000 _                 0      t       -5,300,0t
-Dikf to Galafi                             6,000,OO  6,000,000                                 -5,300,C
-Arta to Dikhil                             1,lOO,tC 1,tX)O,CO __
R autre M  naicw eVqerdres                         C   250,000   500,CXX    500,0001    250,000t
-Dikhil to Gafi                                         132,500   265,000   265,000    132,_5
-Art to Didil                                       117,500   235,0   IO 235,000   117,50
Tdald eyaqceres                             7,000, t   7,250,000   500,000   500,000   250,20   -6,300,
Veiile  _al           __  ,_ ,                           140/      140/      140/        140/        50/
V_ __s per_yew                                85683.( 97336.57 110674.34 12561245 142695747  149830.
Sags in vehide ope_ _ng cost To_                   C        89       178       178        1           17E
Sayngs n vehie bperabtr oost DiO"i to Galali _                     16t       165        1           161
Sa\Args in vehide a Ai cost Arta  to Dikh                  7        1         13         1           1
Totd savinrgs                                      C 8,661,178 19,678,197 22,354,432  25,394,64   26,664,
Total benefils   --7 lOO,                          1,411,178 19,178,197 21,854,43   25,144,6q  31,964,
NPVa 1CI%                                  57,794,25
IRR                                             1359/
Scenario C. Minimal action, low growth
No imleciWal gimwth on comidor sc m       _01                       20     02    2003        2_       0
C.tal eqerism                               7,000,0l   0 7,,000 ,CI1J            0              -6,300,
-Dltiito Glaw                               6,000,00  6,000,000 _                              -6,300,
-Ara to Diki                                 1,000,CE 1,000,000_
Roufie MankeMae r k                                    250,00    500,000   500,00      250,CIOC
-Dikhi to Galafi                          ____-- __     132,500   265,(W   265,000     132,50C
-Ara to DiN[                    7                      117,500   235,000   235,000     117,5 C
Total e r,enitires                          7,000OO,C  7,250,C00    500,Clt   500,000  250,CO    -5,300,OOC
Vehde giuw* raite                                          000/C               00/C        00/4       5O/
Ve_Ks pery                                    85683. 8           85683.1   85683.6    85683.1   89967.78
Snvxhs in    cbode c&arV cost TOtdal     L8l                         17        178        17E         1
Saerigs in ehide operatng cost Dildil to Gali             8        165       165        1f          16'
S s in ehide opeiabng    os tatoArta  D i di               7        1         13         1           1
Total savings                                     70     4 7,4277 15,248,553 15,248,553  15,248,55   16,010,981
Totdal benefits                            -7,000,     374,277 14,748,553 14748,553   14,998,5   21,310,981
NPV at10/O                                 36,442Z
IRR
- 51 -



Sensitivity tests: -- delay of implementation by six months
Scenario A. Grading for 5 years, high growth, delay of implementation
Rapd gmwth   rrion *wk scm     7                            2t)01     202       203204                  20
Cq       ~ganVay, DM bi Ga --Wand FW Bard
COW expe_res                  _                           ______O -           0        0             0        t
-Dikhqil to Galafi
-Arta to Dkil
Raibne M_ai____ _p__    _es                       345,C000    345,000   345,CW    345,000    345,000     345,
-DlikI to Galafi                                  300,000    300,000   300,000   300,000      300,000    300,001
-Arta to Dikhil                                    45,000     45,000=   45,000    45,00C      45,000      45,00t
Totd ex4oVtm                                      345,000    345,C   WM           W5          345,000    345,
Vehide groh rae                                                 140/c     140/       14/c        140/4       5/
Veices per ye                                     85683.t 97336.56986 110574.34 12561245 142695.7474 149830.
Sav    ni whde ope    cost Total              _                  98         98        98          98          El_
Satigs in vehide operafing cost DM   to Galafi      48_         95        95_       95          9_ __
Savings in vehidc  cerabng cost ArMa to D- i _                  3          3         3r          3
Total savings                                 _             9,572,954 10,874,876 12,353,859   14,033,984   14,735,6&-
Tata benefts                                     -345,000   9,227,954 10,529,876 12,05,859   13,688,984  14,390,6&-
Rdkiiasb aseptpd                                 =         =          = 
CWWeV ditu-s                                    7,000,000   7,_ _,__    _ _  a0        0 C=        C   -5,300,C
-Dikld to Galafi                                 6,000,000   6,000,000 _                           c   -5,300,0
-Artato Dkhil                                   1,kC_ 00 1_ _  OCOOCIO
Routre M enate epenjes                                 t    250,000 5_,_          500,OX     250,000
-Didiil to Galati                                            1325t)0 2_5_000   2550 00        132_500
-Ara to DiUhil                                              7117,500   235,000   235,0C0      117,500
Total )perdib res                               7,000,000   7,250,000   500,CW    500,CCC     250,000  -5,300,
Vehiceg g   ratl-e                                              140/c     140/c      140/o       140/        50/
Vehbs per                                         856M83.  97336.5696 110574.34  12561245 142695.7474 14983Q.
Savigs in vehlde opering cost, Total                              O _      178       178178111   1           1
Savings m vehide operating c*sl Ddil to Galati   _              .        165       165         165         1
Savings in vehicle cperf*. cost, Ara to Dik_lil                           13        13          1           1
Total saeings                                 _                   0 19,678,197 22,354,432   25,394,635  25,664,36E
Total benefits                                  -7,000,C00   -7,250,000 19,178,197 21,854,432   25,144,635  31,954,32
Dftence h benefits                        -4655000 -16477954  8W4321  984W573   11455,651   17,573,6
NPVat 10%                                      10,587,070
IRR                                                 2B/
- 52 -



Scenario A. Grading for 5 years, low growth, delay of implementation
No kmw          gat th on conxorscen                2000       2001       2M           3        2004
Qy*x97sgacin a*, Di to Gaa and PeBa,a |_                                 _                           _
C-    eperdhues                                        (                     (0                     (          (
-ildlik to Galati
-Art to Diil                                                                                  _            _
Rcutie Mai4rm  exprdtls                           345,000    345,      345,000   345,000     345,000     345,
-Dikhl to Gabai                                   300,000    300,M     300,000   300,000     300,000     300,
-Arta to Dkhi                                      45,000     45,00 45,0)    45,000           45,000      45,
Tdald ependikes                                   345,000    345,OM    345,00     345,000    345,000     345,
Vehic gaNh mte1_                                               00/       00/       00/         00/         5/
Velicbs peryea                                    85683.     85683.0   85683.    85683.      85683.0   89967.
Savigs in veiide oabring cost, Toted                             9 9E                 98          98          GO
Savings in vehicle opeiating oost Dikhil to Galafi  48         95                   95          95          95
Savgs in vehicl perabfng cost Arta to Dikhi          1          3                    3           3           3
Total savrngs                                          (   8,426,89   8,426,896  8,426,896   8,426,896   8,848,241
Total benefts                                    -345,0K0   8,081,896  8,081,896  8,081,896    8,081,896   8,503,241
Rea5la5x~   as ptqpsed__ _                                  _ _ _ __             _ __ _ _
C.*W e4mnchires                                 7,000,000   7,000,000     _            0 _             -5,300,OOC
-Dikhil to Galafi                               6,0t0,0W)   6,000,000                              C   -5,300,OOC
-Aa to DildhiI                                  1,000,CA   1,000,000      _            _           t
Rou6ie Mattae eqderm                                   0    250,000   500,000   500,000      250,000
-Dikhil to Gaai_                                             132,5t   265,000   265,000       132500_
-A tato Dikhil                                ______         117,50    235,00    235,00       117,500
Total eerdiUres                                 7,000,000   7,250,000   5W,00C    500,Q3t     250,000  -5,300,O
Vehide gw   ate                               _                  00/M      0O//                   00/        50/
Vehrles  p                                        85683.6    85683.E   85683.    85683.t    85683.    899677
S|ngs in veicle operating cost Totad          _          _                 178       178         178         17
ISavings n vehe  eraring cost DkL t Ga{_                                 165       165         165         16
Savxns in vehice operabng cost, Ara to Dkil                               131 3                 1           1
Total sa\Angs                                 _________   15,248,553 15,248,553   15,248,553  16,010,981
Total benefts                                  -7,000,000  -7,250,000 14,748,553 14,748,553  14,998,553  21,310,981
Df7etence h benefits                           -6,655,000 -15,331,896  6,666,657  6,666,657 _6916,657   12807,740
NPVat 1Q9/o                                     2,365,521
IRR                                                  159/4
Scenario B. Grading for 3 years, high growth, delay of implementation
- 53 -



Rapid growth on coridor scenario                  2000       2001      2002       2003
Continuous grading only, Dhikil to Galafi and Petit Bara
Capital expenditures                                 0          0         0          0
-Dikhil to Galafi
-Arta to Dikhil                                      _
Routine Maintenance expenditures                345,000    345,000   345,000   345,000
-Dikhil to Galafi                               300,000    300,000   300,000   300,000
-Arta to Dikhil                                  45,000     45,000    45,000    45,000
Total expenditures                              345,000    345,000   345,000   345,000
Vehide growth rate                                           114%       14%       14%
Vehides per year                                85683.6 97336.5696 110574.343 125612.454
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total             0         98        98         98
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Dikhil to Galafi  48      95        95         95
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Arta to Dikhil  1          3         3         3
Total savings                                        0   9,572,954 10,874,876 12,353,859
Total benefits                                 -345,000   9,227,954 10,529,876 12,008,859
Rehabilitation as proposed
Capital expenditures                           7,000,000   7,000,000      0 -5,300,000
-Dikhil to Galafi                             6,000,000   6,000,000          -5,300,000
-Arta to Dikhil                                1,000,000   1,000,000
Routine Maintenance expenditures                     0    250,000   500,000   500,000
-Dikhil to Galafi                                          132,500   265,000   265,000
-AMta to Dikhil                                            117,500   235,000   235,000
Total expenditures                             7,000,000   7,250,000   500,000 -4,800,000
Vehicle growth rate                                           14%       14%       14%/
Vehicles per year                               85683.6 97336.5696 110574.343 125612.454
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total    _                   0       178        178
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Dikhil to Galafi                    165       165
Savings in vehicle operating cost Arta to Dikhil                        13        13
Total savings                                        0          0 19,678,197 22,354,432
Total benefits                                -7,000,000  -7,250,000 19,178,197 27,154,432
Difference in benefits                       -6,655,000 -16,477,954  8,648,321 15,145,573
NPV at 1 0%                                  -2,825,9021
IRR                                                 AM 5
- 54 -



Scenario B. Grading for 3 years, low growth, delay of implementation
No immediate growth on comidor scenaria            2000       2001      2002      2003
Continuous grading only, Dhikil to Galafi and Petit Bara  .
Capital expenditures                                  0          0         0         0
-Dikhil to Galafi
-Arta to Dikhil
Routine Maintenance expenditures                345,000    345,000    345,000   345,000
-Dikhil to Galafi                                300,000    300,000   300,000   300,000
-Arta to Dikhil                                  45,000     45,000    45,000    45,000
Total expenditures                               345,000    345,000    345,000   345,000
Vehicle growth rate                          _ __0%                       0%        0%
Vehides per year                                 85683.6    85683.6   85683.6   85683.6
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total              0         98        98        98
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Dikhil to Galafi  48       95        95        95
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Arta to Dikhil   1          3         3         3
Total savings                                         0   8,426,896  8,426,896  8,426,896
Total benefits                                  -345,000   8,081,896  8,081,896  8,081,896
Rehabilitaton as proposed                               _
Capital expenditures                           7,000,000   7,000,000       0 -5,300,000
-Dikhil to Galafi                              6,000,000   6,000,000          -5,300,000
-Arta to Dikhil                                1,000,000   1,000,000
Routine Maintenance expenditures                      0    250,000   500,000    500,000
-Dikhil to Galafi                                           132,500   265,000   265,000
-Arta to Dikhil                                             117,500   235,000    235,000
Total expenditures                             7,000,000   7,250,000   500,000 -4,800,000
Vehice growth rate                         |--                 0%         0%        0%
Vehides per year                                 85683.6    85683.6   85683.6   85683.6
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Total              0          0       178        178
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Dikhil to Galafi                    165        165
Savings in vehicle operating cost, Arta to Dikhil                       13         13
Total savings                                         0          0 15,248,553 15,248,553
Total benefits                                -7,000,000  -7,250,000 14,748,553 20,048,553
Difference in benefits                        -6,655,000 -15,331,896  6,666,657 11,966,657
NPVat 10%                                     -5,538,843
IRR                                                 -8%
- 55 -



Scenario C. Minimal action, high growth, delay of implementation
Rapd giwth on comdorscerom                2_      _       31        3m        2003       2, __   2_
Captal e)perides                            7,000,00C 7,000,c00             0   O               -5,300,00
-Dikhil to Galafi                           6,000,0C 6,000,000                                  -5,300,
-Aa to Dikhil                               1,000,tOC 1,000,000 _                  _          _ =   (
Routhe Ma *tnance exprdbies                            250,000   5000 500,000          250,t)0_
-Dikhil to Galafi                                      132,500   265,000   255,000     132,5
-Arta to Dikild                                        117,500  235,00O   235,000      117,500      _
Total e)qemndibures                         7,000,000 7,250,000   500,C    500,000     250,00  -5,300,
Vehide gw  ate _r_                                        140/      140/      140/        140/        5O/
Vehebs p year                                 85683.t  97336.57 11057434 12561245 1426957474 149630.
Savrigs in vehide peafing cost Total               C         t       178       178        178         1
Savings in vehide operatng cost Dkh4il to Galafi                   165       165        165         1
Savngs in vehide operaing cost Arta to Dikhil                       13        13         1           1
Total savings                                C_              t 19,678,197 22354,432  25,394,635  26,664,
Totl1 benefits                             -7,000,   -7,250,   19,178,197 21,854,432  25,144,3   31,964,
NPVat 10%/o                                50,636,254
IRR                                              960/
Scenario C. Minimal action, low growth, delay of implementation
No friw aed   grmwth on comcdrscenai0o                       i      2002      2003 __                20(X
C    e)penuhjres                            7,000,00  7,000,000        O         0              -5,300,
-Dikhil to Galafi                           6,000,    6,000,0_0                                  -,300,
-Mja to Dikhil                              1,000,00  1,000,0                       ____   ____
Routine Maktnre  expeidr                  C_       0   250,00   500,C100   500,C00     250,OCC    _
-Dikhil to Galafi                                      132,500   265,(0X   265,000     132,50     _
-A to Dikhil                                           117,5W    235,C00   235,000     117,5 
Total expenibres                             7,000,    7,250,000   500,000   500,000   250,OC   -5,300,FX
Vehde g9    rate                         1-                0/        0/a      0/a        001        50/
Vehides per,ar                                85683.   85683.E  85683.6  85683.6    85683.t   89967.71
Swings in vehide  erting cost Total                          C       178       178        170         1
Savings in vehide operating c06st DikIil to Galafi                 165       165        1Bg         1
Sa\Angs in vehide opera6rg o*  Arta tD D_il                         13        13         13          1
Total savings                                      C         C 15,248,553 15,248,553  15,248,55   16,010,981
Total benefits                             -7,000,001 -7,250,000 14,748,553 14,748,553  14,998,553  21,31Q981
NPV at 10'/o                               30,141,31C
IRR                                              71/
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary Financial Management Assessment
Three governmental departments are involved in the International Road Corridor Rehabilitation
Project, including the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MOET), the Roads Department (RD)
(previously within the Ministry of Public Works), and the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF), which was
established in February 2000. MOET and RD are non-revenue earning entities that rely on the
government's budget to fund their operations. RMF is a revenue-earning entity and derives it's revenue by
levying a $15 fee (DF2,700) on loaded Ethiopian trucks entering or leaving Djibouti Port. The levy is
intended to generate funds for maintaining the country's international highways. During the project's
appraisal, an assessment of the financial management systems and procedures at MOET, RD, and RMF
was conducted.
The financial management systems at MOET and RD are subject to Government accounting and budgeting
procedures, which can be complex and time-consuming. Annual budget requests are prepared by MOET
and RD accountants and submitted to MOF for approval. MOET has no formal accounting department
while RD's has limited capacity. Both entities rely, to a large extent, on the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to
process and record payments to contractors and suppliers.
RMF is not a part of the Government's budgeting process and does not receive annual allocations from the
central budget. RMF uses a computerized accounting system to manage its financial transactions, and
employs one full-time accountant to handle all accounting functions. Checks are co-signed by the
accountant and RMF Director. The Director also approves all accounting transactions before being posted
by the accountant.
To ensure adequate financial management of the project, and due to the urgency of implementing the
project, it was decided to establish a stand alone financial management system and procedures, along with
the capacity to manage the system, within the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU will be in
charge of managing all financial transactions, accounting and reporting activities, including accounting
procedures, internal controls, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements, as well as a Special Account,
which will be opened at the Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie. As an interim mechanism, and to
avoid delaying effectiveness, the Project will utilize a manual accounting system until a computerized
system is developed and operational, which is expected to be about five months after effectiveness. The
establishment of a project financial management system, including a manual accounting system, internal
control mechanisms and documented operational policies and procedures, as detailed in the work plan, is a
Condition of Effectiveness. Prior to effectiveness, a Financial Management Specialist, or the external
auditor under the supervision of the Financial Management Specialist, will certify that the financial
management system is satisfactory.
It is anticipated that one accountant will be able to manage the financial transactions associated with the
proposed project. The accountant should have adequate education and experience to handle all accounting
functions and responsibilities, be familiar with International Accounting Standards (IAS), capable of
processing Withdrawal Applications and Replenishment Requests for the Special Account, and be able to
respond to Bank requests for clarification and/or additional information. The appointment of an
Accountant acceptable to the Association will be a Condition of Effectiveness.
- 57 -



A work plan for developing an appropriate financial management system and procedures at the PIU is
outlined below. To ensure that the work plan is implemented on time, immediately after negotiations, a
consultant will begin working with the Ministry of Equipment and Transport to establish a project financial
management system, which will include documented accounting policies/procedures and the budgeting
process, a manual accounting system, internal controls and reporting tools to be used by the PIU. A
Bank-executed PHRD Grant will be used to fund the services of the consultant. Terrns of reference for the
consultant are included in Annex 13.
- 58 -



Work Plan for Establishing a Financial Management System and Procedures at the PIU
FMS Category                  Action                           By                   Date
Staffing      1. Identify and appoint Consultant to begin  1. IDA (using PHRD funds)    June 1, 2000
establishing FMS with PIU Director.
2. Identify and appoint Accountant.
2. Project Director, PIU    July 31, 2000
Internal      1. Establish internal control mechanisms and 1. PIUAccountant/Consultant   July 31, 2000
Controls      policies/procedures (flow of funds, approval
process, segregation of duties, SA
procedures).                          2. PIU                       July 31, 2000
2. Develop manual of accounting policies and Accountant/Consultant
procedures.
Manual        1. Establish COA.                      1. PIU                      July 15, 2000
Accounting    2. Establish manual accounting system.  Accountant/Consultant      July 31, 2000
System        3. Format for financial reporting established. 2. PIU             August 31, 2000
Accountant/Consultant
3. PIU Accountant
Computerized  1. Select and implement accounting software 1. PIU Accountant    October 31, 2000
System and    and purchase dedicated computer.
Accounting    2. Design COA to fit computerized
Software      accounting system.                     2. PIU Accountant        November 30, 2000
3. Enter data from manual system to
computerized system and test.         3. PIU Accountant         December 31, 2000
Auditing      1. Identify firms to undertake auditing  1. PIU                     July 1, 2000
Arrangements  function.                              Accountant/Consultant       July 31, 2000
2. Appoint auditor.                   2. PIU
Accountant/Consultant
Records       1. Designate and equip location for storing   1. PIU Accountant    July 31, 2000
Management   records.
2. Adequate backup procedures for     2. PIU Accountant         December 31, 2000
computerized records.
Reporting     1. Transitional PMRs (Cash Model IA, 3A, 1. PIU Accountant       October 31, 2000
3B, 3C, 3D).
2. Full PMRs (Cash Model).            2. PIU Accountant         December 31, 2001
Audit Arrangements
Project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be subject to external auditing by a
qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank under agreed terms of reference. The PIU will submit annual
audited financial statements to IDA within three months following the end of the fiscal year; the first such
report will be due March 31, 2001. Due to accelerated expenditures in the project's first year, the auditor's
terms of reference will include the submission of a "management letter" regarding the PIU's operations no
later then six months after effectiveness. This will help to ensure that the PIU's internal controls and
operating procedures are satisfactory. A shortlist of qualified auditors was agreed between the Borrower
and IDA at Negotiations.
- 59 -



Current review of IDA's portfolio in Djibouti indicates that audit reports for most projects are not received
on time. To ensure that audit reports for this project are received on time, a PIU will be established and
staffed with an accountant, and the appointment of a private auditor with terms of reference acceptable to
IDA is a Condition of Effectiveness. Terms of reference for the auditor are included in Annex 13.
- 60 -



Inadeciuate Financial Management Svstem
Part I- Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review was to
determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by IDA
under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agencies, was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting
system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in
support of Withdrawal Application.
In my opinion, the project does not have satisfy IDA's minimum financial management requirements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed work
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:                                             Ayman Abu-Haija, MNSID
Financial Management Specialist                        May 25, 2000
- 61 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement methods (see Table A)
Procurement of goods and works will be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995, updated in January 1996, August 1996,
and Sept. 1997 and revised in January 1999. The Borrower will use the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents and standard contracts, as mandated in the Guidelines.
*   Civil works will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) or carried out by Force
Account, provided no single contract exceeds US$ 3.5 million in which case ICB would be
required. The works to be tendered will be divided into a number of works contracts of appropriate
size (US$ 2-4 million each). All works contracts would be subject to prior review except for
contracts below US$200,000.
*   Goods, including the production of aggregates, will be procured by NCB, except when the contract
value exceeds US$500,000 in which case ICB procedures will be used. Where the goods are of
limited value (less than US$50,000), procurement may be by International Shopping (IS), National
Shopping (NS) or sole source for proprietary parts. All contracts valued at more than
US$200,000 will be subject to prior review as shown in Table B.
Procurement of consulting services will be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997, revised Sept. 1997 and
January, 1999, and will cover:
3 construction management of the rehabilitation of the international road corridor project;
3 construction supervision of the rehabilitation of the international road corridor project;
3 technical assistance (HIV/AIDS and Road Safety);
3 technical assistance to develop trade related services in Djibouti; and
3   consulting services to staff the Project Implementation Unit.
Thresholds for procurement method and prior review are set out in Table B.
Extensions of existing contracts (where a continuation of the provision of services is appropriate), may be
required on a single source basis, and in such case the terms and conditions of the original contract will
apply, subject to the price adjustment allowed under the contract.
- 62 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      NCB            Consulting        Shopping           N.B.F.    Totals
Services
1. Works
(a) Civil Works,          5.90                                                           5.90
Dikhil-Galafi             (5.55)                                                         (5.55)
(b) Civil Works,          2.00                                                           2.00
Arta-Dikhil               (2.00)                                                         (2.00)
(c) Maintenance Works,                                                        0.50       0.50
Arta-Galafi
(d) Vehicle Inspection    0.25                                                           0.25
Station                   (0.10)                                                         (0.10)
2. Goods
(a) Force Account Works   3.60                                                           3.60
(matls., spares, two pieces    (1.60)                                                    (1.60)
of equipment, financed by
IDA)                                                      _
(b) Aggregates            2.00                             0.50                          2.50
(2.00)                          (0.50)                        (2.50)
(c) Spare Parts                                            0.50                          0.50
(0.50)                        (0.50)
(d) Mgt. Offices, vehicles                                 0.35                          0.35
and Lab. Equipment for                                     (0.35)                        (0.35)
consultants and the PIU
(e) Vehicle Inspection                                     0.10                          0.10
Equipment                                                  (0.10)                        (0.10)
3. Services
Consultant Services incl.                1.95                                            1.95
PIU costs and PIU training               (1.95)                                          (1.95)
4. Studies                               0.35                                            0.35
(0.35)                                          (0.35)
TOTAL                      13.75         2.30              1.45               0.50       18.00
(11.25)       (2.30)            (1.45)                        (15.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
- 63 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value      Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to Prior
Category            (Threshold)                              Review *)
1. Works            above US$3,500,000  ICB                 All
US$3,500,000 and    NCB                 Above US$200,000
below
2. Goods            Above US$500,000    ICB                  All
US$500,000 and      NCB                 Above US$200,000
below
U$50,000 and below   IS or NS           None
3. Services         US$50,000 and       Single Source        All
below               (proprietary parts)
for firms           Above $100,000      QCBS                 All
for firms           $100,000 and below    Single Source      All
for individual      $50,000 and below   Single Source        All
*) Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts, as well as all single source appointments, irrespective of
dollar amounts, are subject to prior review.
Financial Management Arrangements: Please see Annex 5.
Disbursement Arrangements: The Project will commence with traditional disbursement method. Since
the period of implementation of civil works is only one year, the Project will continue using traditional
disbursement method for the duration of this period. Summary of disbursement schedule is found in Table
of Estimated IDA Disbursements below. In view of the short duration expected and accelerated
expenditures in the first year, the allocation for the Special Account be US$2 million. The minimum
amount applicable to withdrawal application will be US$200,000 or every 3 months.
Table of Estimated IDA Disbursements (USM$)
FY 01     FY02      FY03      FY04
Annual        9.0        5.5       0.3       0.2
Cumulative      9.0       14.5      14.8      15.0
- 64 -



Allocation of credit proceeds (see Table C below): The allocation of credit proceeds is given in the
Table C, which also indicates the different financing arrangements for the different categories of
expenditures. Counterpart funds will be made available through in-kind contributions of equipment and
labor. Disbursements against consultancy service contracts will cover 100% of the certified expenditures.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Withdrawals from the loan account may be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenses for the following expenditures:
(a) all operating costs of the PIU;
(b) the services of individual consultants for contracts costing less than US$50,000;
(c) the services of consultants firms for contracts costing less than US$100,000;
(d) training and/or studies; and
(e) goods and works contracts costing less than US$200,000.
The supporting documents for SOE must be maintained by the Project Implementation Unit and then the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport for at least one year after the completion of the Project to allow
review by the external auditor and supervision missions from IDA.
Procurement Reporting. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of award information by the Borrower,
(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the Borrower (assisted by consultants), indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best estimates of
allowances for physical and price contingencies;
(ii) revised timning of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contract;
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement; and
(c ) a completion report by the Borrower within three months of the credit closing date.
- 65 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expendit>ure C    y         Amou ; 0 0 t: * nt *ii UgS~iifin  :7 050i;LFinaingf PrentaNge      :
1. Civil Works                             6.15             100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures
1. Civil Works, Vehicle Control Station    0.10             100% of foreign and 40 % of local
expenditures
2. Goods, Equipment, Rehabilitation        0.50           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
95% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. Goods, Force Account Materials, and     3.90           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
Spare, Aggregate Production and PIU                      local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
Equipment.                                               95% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consulting Services                     2.15                         100%
4. Training                                0.10                         100%
5. PIU Incremental Operating Costs         0.20             100% of foreign and 95% of local
______________________            expenditures
6. Unallocated                             1.90
Total Project Costs                        15.00
Total                                      15.00
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    4
First Bank mission (identification)                                           02/20/2000
Appraisal mission departure                                                   04/16/2000
Negotiations                                    05/22/2000                    05/26/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/31/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Equipment and Transport
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant No. TF026323
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
George Tharakan                   Sector Manager
Terje Wolden                      Task Team Leader
Stephen F. Lintner                Senior Technical Advisor/Environment
Roger Gorham                      Consultant
Ayman Abu-Haija                   Financial Management Specialist
John Riverson                     Peer Reviewer
Simon Thomas                      Peer Reviewer
Michel Loir                       Peer Reviewer
James Reichert                    Financial Analyst
Eugenia Dennis                    Administrative Support
Chantal Riguad                    Administrative Support
- 67 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, May 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Environmental Management Plan, May 8, 2000
Financial Management Assessment, May 2000
Economic Analysis Report, May 2000
Djibouti Port and Transport Corridor. Report of review mission October 26/29, 1999
Draft Country Assistance Strategy for Djibouti, May 2000
C. Other
Cost Estimate for the Dikhil-Galafi Road, April 2000
Note on the Djibouti Port Tariff, March 2000
Project Completion Report, Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1303-DJI), September 19, 1990
Route Arta-Yoboki-Galafi-Dobi. Termes de Reference de l'Etude de Faisabilite, May 15, 1999
Plan for Reorganization of the Management of the Road Sector, June 1999
Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, PERSGA, 1998
Decret n99-128/PR/MET, portant creation du Fonds d'Entretien Routier (FER), August 14, 1999
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Djibouti. Report by the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, 1999,
presented
at a seminar in Addis Ababa end of January 2000
*Including electronic files
- 68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions             disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                          Purpose                                         IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frn Revd
P056419        1999 Djibouti                     DJ-EX-COMBATANTS REINTE                                0.00        2.70        0.00       2.49        0.87       0 00
P044584        1999 Djibouti                     DJ-PUBLIC WORKS/SOC.DEV                                0.00       14.80        0.00      14.77        0.98       0.00
P044174        1997 Djibouti                     DJ-TECH.ASSIST (PATARE)                                0.00        6.50        0.00        3.82       3.97       0.00
Total:         0.00       24.00         0.00        21.08       5.82       0.00
- 69 -



DJIBOUTI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:           0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                             Loan    Equity       Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sub-   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Satiaran   middle.
Diibouti    Africa   Income       Development diamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                         0 B6       628       90S                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$)                                 480      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                           .       304      1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population I%)                                           2.9       2.6        1/1
Labor force (%)                                                    2,6       1.      GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                 peri\                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty lina)
Urban Population (% of total population)                 83         33        58
Life expectancv at birth (years)                         50         51        S8
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                106         91        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               23                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   80         47        75
Illiteracy (% of population ape 15+)                     54         42        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ape population)    38         77       103         -Djibouti
Male                                                   44         84       105         --    Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 33         s9       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATtOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billion.s)                                     0.38      0.50       0.51
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                      9.5       15.3                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                 41.3       45.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                         6 -2      -3.3
Gross national savings/GOP                                         -61       -3-1
Current account balance/GDP                                        -2.3      -3.0     Domestic                      Investment
Interest paymentsl/GDP                                   0 8       0.6        0.B     Savings
Total debtlGDP                                          48 6      63.3       66.0
Total debt servicelexports                                         5.4        8.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                         35 0
Present value of debt/exports                                     759                              Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                            -3.1      3.7        0.8       S.          -jbouff
GNP per capTta                                                                             -     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            r
Agriculture                                                         3.6       3.6
Industry                                                          20.5       20.4     3
Manufacturing                                                     5.7       5.4                                  f
Services                                                          75.9       76.0                       97                 98
Private consumption                                               78.3       79.5    -e
General government consumption                                    27.9       23.6               -G0l          -GDP
Imports of goods and services                              .      570        63.8
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998
(average annual growth)
Agriculture
IndustrV
Manufacturing.
Services
Private consumption
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services
Gross national Product
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 71 -



Djibouti
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (b)
Domestic prices8
(% change) 
Consumer prices                                ..      4.2       -0.6       0.1     6
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..         ..4
Govemment finance                                                                   2
(% of GDP, includes grants)                                                         0 -
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       31.3      26.7    -2      93    94   9S    96          9
Current budget balance                          .        ..       0.0       7.5             -G DP deflator  _CPl
Overali surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       4.4       0.9
TRADE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                43       59    300
n.a.
n.a.20
Manufactures                                  .2
Total imports (cif)                             ..       ..       204      238
Food                                                                               0
Fuel and energy                               ,
Capital goods 
52   93  54  95   96   57   96
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..                                             93   94 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   .                                              Exports     i Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (56)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ..       221       249       0                          i
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..       297       344
Resource balance                               ..       ..        -76      -95
Netincome                                       ..      ..         12       11
Net current transfers                           ..      ..         52       68
Current account balance                         ..      ..        -12      -16      205.
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..          0
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..        12        .      30
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..
Conversion rate (DEC, localAJS$)            177.7   177.7       177.7    177.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           27      183        317      339
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                       G. 11                  |
IDA                                           0       21        46        47
Total debt service                              2       13         12       22    |                                 4
IBRo                                          0        0         0         0            ED87
IDA                                           0        0          1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              28       47
Official creditors                            1       23         2         1
Private creditors                             0       -2         0         0
Foreign direct investment                     0        0         5
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0D:9
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0          0        0      A - BRD                      E - Bilateral
0  0      0         0      B-~~~~~8.IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Disbursements                                 0        7         3         1      C. IMF                       G - Short-terml
Principal repayments                          0        0         0         0
Net flows                                     0        7         3         1
Interest payments                             0        0         0         0
Net transfers                                 0        7          3        0
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/21/99
- 72 -



Annex 11: Letter of Road Sector Policy
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Mr. Inder Sud
Department Director for the Middle East,
Middle East and North Africa Region
The World Bank
RE:   International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project -
Road Sector Policy
Dear Mr. Sud,
Since mid-1998, Djibouti has been the only port of entry for goods bound for Ethiopia arriving by
sea. Ethiopia's use of Djibouti as the primary port of entry occurred suddenly, as a consequence of the
geo-political situation in the region. Concomitantly, truck traffic on the road corridor between Djibouti
and the Ethiopian border also increased significantly and suddenly, and, as a result, our road infrastructure
has suffered tremendously. This degradation is a concern both to Djibouti and to the region, since further
increases in traffic are expected as famine relief operations for Ethiopia intensify.
The Government of Djibouti recognizes the urgency of improving upgrading this road
connection, and is therefore appreciative of the assistance of the International Development Association
(IDA) in the rehabilitation of the road corridor. This will help secure unhampered and continued road
access from Ethiopia for the next few years, during which time a high quality road connection is
designed and implemented with assistance from the European Union. IDA's assistance is important to us,
since it will help assure the image and competitiveness of Djibouti Port.
The importance of developing the institutional capacity to safeguard the investment being made,
as well as to ensure the longer-term sustainability of the road network, is understood and taken seriously
in Djibouti. To this end, the GD has embarked on a number of institutional and policy reform measures,
being implemented as part of the process to create a more sustainable sector. It is also considering a
range of other institutional measures, for which the input and assistance of IDA would be appreciated.
The purpose of this letter is to apprise you of these implemented and potential institutional developments
and assure you of our commitment to the process. Actions taken and contemplated will help facilitate an
enabling environment for the IDA project.
The actions which have been taken or are underway include:
(a)    Establishment of a Road Fund. A Road Fund was established on 1st February 2000.
The objective of this fund is to initially finance maintenance of the international corridor
by levying a tariff on trucks leaving Djibouti Port bound for Ethiopia. This funding
source will subsequently be expanded to cover maintenance of the entire national road
network. Under a study financed by the EU the option of outsourcing all maintenance
work to the private sector will be explored, and procedures agreed how this should be
undertaken through a competitive bidding process.
73



(b)    Strengthening of the Administration of Roads. Government is currently considering
different proposals to restructure and reorganize the roads function of the Ministry of
Transport. These proposals include:
(i)   separating the planning and management functions from the force account
operations which previously constituted the bulk of the department's activities;
and
(ii)   commercializing and subsequently privatizing the force account operations.
(c)    Axle load control. Plans are underway to establish overload control facilities in the port
area and eventually to deploy weigh-bridges at strategic locations on the main road
network. We are also in the process of reviewing our axle load and gross vehicle mass
limits with a view to possibly harmonizing them with those prevailing in -he COMESA
region.
In addition to the above, there are a number of other actions that the GD intends to pursue over
the next few years in order to strengthen the institutional capacity of road sector institutions. Many of
these would be undertaken in the context the proposed IDA credit (the Project). These include:
Road Management
(a)    undertake a review of the existing organizational arrangements for management of roads
in Djibouti and define suitable arrangements within the first 12 months of the Project;
(b)   at the Early Implementation Assessment (EIA) of the Project agree on the preferred
organizational model (hereinafter the National Roads Administration - NRA); and
(c)   establish a timetable for creating the NRA and appointing and training the staff in order
to make the NRA fully operational over the remaining three years of the Project.
Road Financing
(a)    undertake a review of possible road user charging instruments during the first 12 months
of the Project, and propose a set of charges that would fully finance the upkeep of the
main road network outside the general budget;
(b)   during the EIA reach an agreement with IDA on a set of charges to be introduced in
phased manner to achieve full funding by June 30, 2004; and
(c)   effect arrangements for depositing the road user charges directly to the account of the
RMF.
Axle Load Limits and Overload Control
(a)   harmonize vehicle weights and dimension limits in conformity with the COMESA region
and have proposed legislation to this effect worked out at the EIA including proposed
fines for overloading; and
74



(b)    strengthen the enforcement of axle load control measures and introduce adequate and
justifiable fines for overloading.
Force Account Operations
(a)    establish a plan within 12 months of the start of the project regarding the role and
administration of force account operations in the road sector in the future, and a review of
the capacity and capabilities of the private sector in undertaking road services.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the Djibouti Government's appreciation of IDA's
assistance in this important international corridor project and would also confirm my Government's
commitment to undertake various policy reform measures to safeguard the investment being made in the
international corridor as well as to ensure the longer-term sustainability of the road network.
Yours sincerely,
Osman Idriss Djama
The Minister of Equipment and Transport
75



RPEMLIQUE DE n      nJMw 
LNIE - IGALXMa - PAXf1                                                -      -
MTih.Sre  DE: 2':QUfDMEY                                              _  IAij'
ET DES Ti 3NS?O                                                      J--
B P 2501
T#1 35 79 13
r~4ro Yt 'iV
N.
ib   3 0 MAt 2O0D -D__
Le Ministre
A
M. Inder Sud
Directeur
D6partement Moyen-Orienr Bureau Reaional
Moyen-Orient et Afrique du Nord
Obiet: Rehabilitation du corridor rourier international
Cadre institutionnel du secteur routier
M         ins   le Directeur,
Depuis la mnois 1998., Djibouti constitue le seui port d'entr6e de marchandises arrivant
par la. mer et destinees a l'Ethiopie. L'utilisation par I'-Ethiopie de Djibouti comme port
d'entree principal s'est produite soudainement, en raison de la situation geopolitique de
la region.
Ceci a eu pour r6sultat Paccroissernent signincatif et soudain de la circulation des
poids lourds sur le corridor routier entie Djibouti et la ftontUre ethioDienne. L'etat des
infrastructures routiers s'est en consequence 6norrmrent degrade. Cette degradation
est un probIl-me a la fois pour Djibouti et pour la Tegion, car urne augmentation
continue de la circulation est prd"ac alors que s'intensifient les actions contre la
famine en Ethiopie.
Le Gouvernernent de Djibouti recon-nait l'urgence de La rdhabilitation de cette route, e
exprirne sa reconnaissance envers l'Association Intemationale de Ddveloppement
,IDA) pour son assist=nce dans le cadre de ce projet Ceci pernermra d'assurer un acc-se
sxns en-ave et ininterrornpu ve-s I'BtEtiopie pendant les prochaines annees, durant
lescuelles urne liaison routi&re plus du-able et de' meilleure quaiite sera concue et
realisde avec l'aide de V'Union Europdenne. L'assistance de 1'IDA est tras importante
car eie pormerrnetra de valoriser V image et ia cornpetitivitd du port de Djibouti.
76



Nous comprenons qu'il est important de developper les capacites institUtionnelles
n6cessaires pour pr6server cette investissement et s'assurer que le reseau routier soit
entretenu a long terme. C'est un engagement que nous prenons au s6rieux. A cet 4aard,
le Gouvernement a pns un certain nombre de mesures en faveur de r6formes de nature
-instituionnelle et politique, dans le but de mieux assurer la perennite du secteur. Le
Gouvernement cnudic cgalement d'autres mesures institutionnelles, pour lesquelles la
contribution et I'aide de la Banque Mondiale seraient appreciees. L'objet de cette lertre
est pricisdment de vous informer de ces developpements institutiornels realises et a
ver;ir, et de vous assurer de notre engagement a poursuivre cette demarche. Les actions
actuellement prises et celles qui sont envisagees faciliteront la mise en place d'un
envirornement favorable au projet de ['IDA.
Lres actions d5ja prises ou en cours comprennent:
i) Etablissement d'un Fonds Routier. Un Fonds Routier a ete mis en place le I'"
f6vrier 2000. L'objet de ce Fonds est tout d'abord de itiancer F'entretien du corridor
routier international en percevaat une taxe sur les poids lourds qui partent du Port de
Djibouti vers I'Ethiopie. Cetae source de revenus sera ensuite etendue a la
couverture des couts d'eanretien de 'eansemble du reseau routier national. Dans le
cadre d'une tude mende par l'Union Europeenne, la possibilite de sous traiter tous
.es tavaux d'entretien au secteur prive sera evaluee, et un accord sera conclu sur
l'organisation de ce-tt sous-traitance par voie d'appels d'offres.
(i) Re;nforcement de ['Administration  des Routes. Le Gouvemement ctudie
actucllement diff*rentes propositions pour restructurer et reorganiser la fonction
routiire au Ministere du Transport. Ces propositions comprennent:
La separation des fonctions de planification et de gestion de celles du
fonctionnement de la R.gie,qui constituaient auparavant le gros de activites
de I'administration ; et
La mise sous regime de restion commerciale, puis la privatisation de )a
R6g,e.
(iii) Contr6le de ia charge i 1'essiwx. Des plans sont en cours pour implanter des
moyens de contr6le des surcharges pres du port et, par la suite, pour deployer des
ponts-bascules aux points strategiques du reseau routier principal. Nous sornmes
ecgaieient en train de rdviser les limites de charges . I'essieu et de poids brut des
vehicules en vue de les harmoriser avec ceux en vigueur dans la region COMESA.
2
77



En plus de cc qui precede, le Gouvernement de Djibouti souhaite prendre plusieurs
aurres mesures au cours des prochaines annees pour renforcer la    capacite
institutionnelle dans le secteur routier. La plupart de ces mesures seraient prises dans le
cadre du projet IDA propose. Etles comprennent:
La gestion routiere
*Entreprendre une revue de ['organisation actuelle de la gestion des routes a Djiouti
et dJfinir des modifications approprines au cours des douze premiers mois du
projet;
. Au cours de l'6valuation a mi-parcours (EIA) du projet, convenir d'un modele
d'orga-nisation preferentiel (appebi ci-apres 1'Administration Nationale des Routes.
A,NR);
aEtablir un calendrier de cieation de V'ANR, et nommer et fonner le personnel pour
que 1'ANR soit pleinement operationnelle au cours des trois derni&res annees du
projet.
Le rinance nent routier
. Entreprendre une analyse des instruments de la redevance rouiiere au cours des
douze prerniers mois du projet, et proposer une senie de redevance qui financeraient
en tomlitd 1'entretien du reseau routier principal hors budget g6ndral;
* Au cours de I' evaluation a mi-parcours, conclure avec l'IDA un accord sur la s4rie
de taxes a imtroduire progressivement pour que 1'entretien puisse etre totalernent
finance au 30 iuin 2004;
* Prendre les dispositions ntcessaires pour deposer le produit des redevances
prdleev6es sur les usager des routes directemnent sur le compte du Fonds Routier.
Lites de la charge a l'essieu et controle surcharges
. Harm.oniser les limites de poids et de dimensions des vehicules, conform6nent *i
celles en vigueur dans la reaion COMESA, et proposer une reglementation a cet
effet pour i'&valuation a mi-parcours, y comrnis les amendes proposees pour tes
surcharges;
*Renforcer les mesures de conrrole des charges A l'essieu et introduire des amende i
la mesure des couts occasiounns par les surcharges.
Etablirui nplan dans les douze mois suivant le debur du projet pour l'6tude cu rol6 er
de la gestion faxrure de la Regie dans le secteur routier, et analyser ia capacite et les
mnoyen.s du secteur prive a prendre en charge les services routiers-
3
78



Pour conclure, je voudrais de nouveau rappeler que lc Gouvernement de Djibouti
appr6cie 1' aide de la Banque Mondiale dans cet important projet du corridor
international. Nous voudrions aussi confiriner 1'engagemrent du Gouvernement a
prendre 'es mesurts de r6forme necessaires pour zaranrir la boone utilisation de
l'investissement reaiise dan cc projet et assurer la perennite du reseau routier.
Veuillez recevoir, Monsieur le Directeur, l'expression de nos salutations distinguees.
4
79



Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
A.    OVERVIEW
1.    Background. The expanded use of the Port of Djibouti over the last year to meet the complete
import and export requirements of Ethiopia has resulted in an increase of both Port activities and demands
on the road system to move materials inland. The Port's facilities are being more fully used and heavy
truck traffic for hauling petroleum products and dry goods has grown enormously. Oil tanker visits to the
Port have grown from one per month to over ten. Road traffic now consists of approximately 150 tanker
trucks and 300 dry goods trucks per day; this traffic is causing serious degradation of Route Nationale 1,
which links the Port with the Ethiopian border at Galafi. The condition of two segments of this road, from
Arta to Dikhil (90 km) and Dikhil to Galafi (102 km) mandates urgent rehabilitation efforts to sustain
current use patterns, reduce further physical degradation, decrease the high incidence of road accidents
and routine damage to vehicles, and lower dust levels, which have adverse impacts on local residents and
create driving hazards.
2.    Proposed IDA Supported Project. The proposed Rehabilitation of International Road Corridor
Project (Project) will support urgent rehabilitation and repairs of the road between the turnoff for Arta and
Galafi on the Ethiopian border, maintenance of the rehabilitated road and technical assistance to
strengthen institutional capacity in the transport sector. The Project, with support from the International
Development Association (IDA), will assist the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MOET) to
undertake the following activities on an urgent basis:
(a)    Phase I - Urgent Road Rehabilitation Component. The focus of the Project will be to
support rehabilitation of the following activities during the first year of implementation:
(i)  Sub-Component A - Section 1 - Route Nationale I from Dikhil to Galafi. This will
include total rehabilitation and reconstruction of a segment of road approximately
102 km long, which has completely deteriorated. This segment has limited paved
portions; the rest is only covered with gravel. The road bed is under extreme stress
from traffic and is widely filled with potholes and ruts, shoulders are often broken
down from use as passing areas and extensive damage exists at all crossings for
ephemeral water courses. In addition, the drainage structures appear to be
undersized and may require upgrading as well as cleaning to remove accumulated
sediment. Extreme dust problems all along the road create significant driving
hazards, damage to local vegetation and are reported by local authorities to cause
respiratory difficulties in settlements alongside the road. In addition, the frequency
of accidents attributable to the current condition of the road puts the entire length at
risk of groundwater contamination in the event of toxic spills resulting from an
accident.
(ii)  Sub-Component B - Section 2 - Route Nationale I from Turnofffor Arta to Dikhil.
This will include localized repair and rehabilitation of a road segment
approximately 86 km long, running from Arta to Dikhil. This is a fully paved
segment, but the pavement is rapidly deteriorating, there are sections with large
potholes, shoulders are breaking down and there is extensive damage at crossings
80



for ephemeral water courses. Dust problems at points along the road create a
serious driving hazard and cause damage to local vegetation. The road has a very
steep approach to the small town of Oueah, which also has problems with
encroachment on the road by informal stalls. This issue will be addressed under a
European Union (EU) project that is anticipated to construct an alternative route to
bypass the settlement.
(iii) Sub-Component C - Equipment Procurement. This will include procurement of
equipment that will be used to make the Road Department's plant pool operational.
(b)    Phase II - Road Maintenance and Technical Assistance. During the second, third and
fourth years, the Project will include:
(i)  Sub-Component A - Road Maintenance. The sub-component will provide support
for routine maintenance of the Arta-to-Dikhil and Dikhil-to-Galafi Section of Route
Nationale 1 for a period of three years, after Project funded road improvements and
repair works have been undertaken.
(ii)  Sub-Component B - Axle Load Control. Support will be provided for the
establishment of an axle load control station, procurement of related equipment,
including weigh bridges, and training of personnel. Preparation of this component
will occur during the Phase I implementation of the urgent rehabilitation.
Preparation activities will include an examination of the feasibility of including
other safety control checks on trucks in addition to axle load control.
(iii) Sub-Component C - Technical Assistance. This will support technical assistance for
advisory and planning services and training of personnel from MET and
cooperating organizations, including:
* Project Implementation. Assistance to the Roads Department to implement the
Project in a very short time frame.
* Studies. Technical assistance to undertake various studies and activities,
including road safety and an HIV/AIDS outreach program.
* Trade Related Services. Technical assistance to prepare a strategy and facilitate
development of trade related services in Djibouti.
* Other Activities. If practical and with the understanding of the Government and
Delegation of the European Commission, the Project will also implement
agreed policy and institutional recommendations from the EU financed
transport study.
3.    Planned European Union Supported Regional Study and Proposed Project. The preparation
and implementation of the IDA Project will be closely coordinated with development of the proposed EU
regional study and its associated project. This regional study will evaluate both medium and long-term
options for surface transport between Djibouti and Ethiopia and a range of alternative road alignments to
improve the road connection between Ethiopia and Djibouti. It will also include detailed evaluation of
measures for upgrading the road system between Dobi in Ethiopia and Arta in Djibouti. The regional
study will support preparation of a feasibility study; including technical, economic and environmental
evaluation, for rehabilitation and upgrading of this road. It will involve preparation of technical design
81



and preparation of tender documents; technical assistance for tender administration and evaluation;
evaluation of the potential contribution of transit traffic to the Road Fund; and administrative measures to
improve road maintenance. The cooperating governments, EU and IDA are coordinating with each to
make certain that the proposed road rehabilitation works will be compatible with this future intervention.
The rehabilitated roadway resulting from the IDA Project will be fully incorporated into the EU-
supported project, if the studies from that project recommend following the same alignment.
B.    ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
4.    Administrative and Legal Framework. The Republic of Djibouti has established institutions
with responsibilities for environmental management. It has joined a number of international conventions
and is in the process of developing environmental legislation and procedures:
(a)    Environmental Management. Overall responsibility for environmental management rests
with the National Commnittee on the Environment, a working group chaired by the Prime
Minister and made up of Ministers whose portfolios impact or are impacted by
environmental policy. This Commnittee is advised by a Technical Committee for the
Environment, made up of relevant staff representation from the same Ministries. The
Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial Management (MOE),
established in 1999, provides secretariat services to the Technical Committee, and is also
responsible for preparation of the overall environmental policy of Djibouti, and for
coordination of relevant activities with departments represented on the Technical
Committee. The Ministry of Ports (MPA) is responsible for the management of Port
affairs and the International Autonomous Port of Djibouti (PAID), and consequently is
responsible for environmental matters within the Port's jurisdiction. The Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Marine Affairs is responsible for maritime navigation, safety at
sea and oil pollution control outside of the area administered by PAID.
(b)    Strategies and Legislation. Major recent environmental studies prepared for Djibouti
include the National Environmental Action Plan prepared with financial support from
lJNDP, a review of coastal and marine management issues in the Strategic Action
Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden and a Biodiversity Strategy, which is in draft.
A national framework law for environment has been prepared and will be submitted to
the Council of Ministers shortly. Procedures for environmental impact assessment are in
preliminary draft. Djibouti currently does not have a formal requirement for
environmental assessment of proposed projects; however, it was agreed for the purposes
of the proposed Project that those of the World Bank/IDA will be used.
(c)    Participation in Conventions. Djibouti is a party to the Jeddah Convention for
environmental protection of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden and adheres to many of the
major maritime conventions. It has joined the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES), the Biodiversity Convention, the UN Convention to
Combat Desertification, and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is in
the processing of ratifying the Ramsar Convention.
(d)    Regional Cooperation. Djibouti is a member of the Regional Organization for the
Conservation of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (PERSGA) and is taking an active role in
implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden with
support from the Global Environment Facility (GEF). At the sub-regional level, an
agreement was signed by Djibouti, Somalia and Yemen in 1990 providing for
establishment of the Marine Emergency Mutual Aid Center (MEMAC) in Djibouti. This
82



center has been provided with some equipment that can be used for the management of
oil spills in open marine waters.
5.    Enviromnental and Social Review Process. The Project has been placed in environmental
screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of Operational Policy 4.01 of the World Bank/IDA.
The environmental category is justified, since the Project represents rehabilitation of an existing road
only, with no changes in the alignment. The environmental impacts associated with the proposed road
rehabilitation activities will be limited in scope and duration. The potential impacts of Project supported
activities are well known and can be effectively addressed through engineering design, low cost
mitigation measures and proper construction monitoring. Construction contracts will include specific
environmental provisions and contractors will receive a briefing concerning these requirements. This
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared in English and French.
6.    Field Based Review. In order to support Project preparation, a field-based review of
environmental and social issues related to the Safeguard Policies of the Bank was conducted in February
2000 by Stephen F. Lintner, Senior Technical Advisor, Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development Network. This included meetings and site visits with representatives of the Government of
Djibouti, local officials in the Project area and personnel from private sector oil companies operating in
the Port of Djibouti (Attachment A). These issues were further discussed by the Task Team during April
and May 2000 in the course of Project preparation.
7.    Meetings. Meetings were held in Djibouti City with His Excellency Osman Idriss Djama,
Minister of Equipment and Transport and His Excellency Saleban Omar Oudin, Minister of Habitat,
Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial Management to discuss the objectives of the proposed
Project. Technical meetings were held with Messrs. Awaleh, Ismael, Brishoual and Guillemot of the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport, Mr. Ahmed Osman Omar, Director of Marine Affairs, Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Marine Affairs, and Mr. Nasser Djama Abdi, PERSGA Coordinator.
8.    Site Visits. A series of site visits was conducted to review environmental and social issues
associated with the Project. A field visit was conducted to review conditions along the road from Arta,
west of Djibouti City, to Galafi at the Djiboutian-Ethiopian border. Site visits were also made to the Port
of Djibouti to review current environmental clean-up efforts in the Port, and issues related to oil and cargo
transfer from ships and reloading of these materials onto trucks for shipment to Ethiopia. The site visit to
the road included the participation of Mr. Aboubaker Doualeh Waiss, Technical Advisor, MOE and Mr.
Dini Abdallah Omar, Deputy Director of the Department of Environment, MOE. Visits were conducted to
PAID and MEMAC with the participation of Mr. Dini Abdullah Omar, Mr. Hassan Aden Hared, Chief of
Pollution Division, Marine Affairs Directorate, MAFMA and Mr. Abdoulkader A. Hassan, Port Safety
Officer, PAID. During the site visits discussions were held with Mr. Ayanleh Idriss Hassan, Director of
Operations of Shell Djibouti and Mr. Wagdi Omar Dorani, Safety, Health and Environment Manager for
Mobil Djibouti. In Dikhil a meeting was held with Messrs. Osman R. Dobar and Hamad Mohammed
Hamad of the Office of the District Commissioner. Additional field visits were conducted jointly by
representatives of the Government and IDA during April and May 2000.
9.    Public Consultation. Preparation of the Project has included a public consultation process as an
element of the environmental and social review. This process has allowed the draft EMP to be discussed
through a series of meetings with national government agencies, local governments and local
nongovernmental organizations. Bank/IDA environmental procedures require that all projects in
environmental screening categories "A" and "B" include public consultation meetings undertaken as a
part of Project preparation. In order to fulfill this policy the Department of Public Works, in cooperation
with the Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs and Environment, has undertaken a series of public
consultation meetings concerning the environmental and social aspects of the proposed Project. These
83



were held in Djibouti City on 29 April 2000 and in Dikhil on 30 April 2000. A brief written summary of
the Project, including environmental and social aspects, was provided to the participants, as well as an
explanation of the structure of the construction process. Minutes of these meetings, as well as a list of
invitees and attendees, are included as Attachment B to this EMP. The Project Implementation Plan will
also contain provisions for periodic consultations with officials and residents along the road corridor to
solicit their views concerning the environmental and social aspects of the construction process used for
road rehabilitation.
C.   CURRENT CONDITIONS
10.    Project Setting. Djibouti is a small country with the majority of its population and economic
activities concentrated in the City of Djibouti and the adjacent PAID. It is semi-arid to arid with
predominantly high temperatures and very low rainfall. Water is obtained from groundwater wells,
springs and local river beds. Water courses are temporary or ephemeral in nature and are characterized by
flooding during the limited storm events. The Port of Djibouti serves as the site for import and export of
products for both Djibouti and Ethiopia. International access to the port from Ethiopia is limited to a
single railway line and the Route Nationale 1. In the area traversed by the existing road, which will be
rehabilitated under the Project, the population is mostly located in only three settlements of any size:
Oueah (population 3,000), Dikhil (population 25,000) and Yoboki (population 3,000). In addition, there
are approximately five small villages along the road with populations of less than 500 persons (for
example, Gour Abbous). While the Project will not finance activities in the Port of Djibouti,
environmental issues in the Port have been included in this analysis to provide a comprehensive overview
of potential impacts associated with the Project.
11.    Port of Djibouti. The Port of Djibouti is a major modern port with facilities for containers,
petroleum products and bulk cargo. It has extensive warehouses, open storage areas and truck yards.
Three international companies - Mobil, Shell and Total - operate facilities for the import, storage and
distribution of refined petroleum products. The Port and the three international oil companies have
designated personnel who work on environment, health and safety issues. The main environmental
management concerns at the Port are:
(a)    Historic Oil Leakage. The Port has long been used for the import and storage of oil for
Djibouti. This has resulted in development of a large subsurface lens of petroleum
products under the main portion of the Port. At depths below one meter, oil floating on
the groundwater table can be observed in wells, foundation trenches and other
excavations. According to both government and private sector parties, this lens originated
approximately 10 years ago when a series of nine underground pipelines that were used
for oil transfer were cut off and abandoned, and is compounded by apparent leakage from
older above ground storage tanks. It is reported that when the pipelines were abandoned
they were cut off and sealed without removing the oil inside. In addition, recent tests
have suggested that the current transfer pipeline, as well as in-use storage tanks, may also
be leaking oil into the waters in and around the Port area.
This situation has also led to frequent discharge of oil products during low tide from the
groundwater table into the Port area. Seasonal currents carry the oil and deposit it on
recreational beaches. A major program is currently being implemented with private sector
funding to remedy this problem; it includes containment of the discharges to the marine
environment, pumping oil from the lens into containers for disposal, locating and
properly decommissioning the abandoned pipelines, and inspection and
rehabilitation/replacement of storage facilities. This work is being undertaken by an
84



international environmental services contractor that has staff and specialized equipment
onsite to take the required remedial actions.
(b)    Operational Oil Spill Management. The Port of Djibouti also experiences occasional
operational oil spills associated with the transfer of petroleum products from tankers to
onshore facilities. These are addressed by the combined efforts of staff from the Port of
Djibouti and personnel and equipment from Mobil, Shell and Total. Authorities report
that they have been able to successfully contain operational spills when they have
occurred within the port area.
(c)    Port and Traffic Safety. The Port of Djibouti has management issues normally associated
with Port operations, storage of petroleum products and dry goods, on-loading and off-
loading of materials and movement of materials to and from the Port.
12.   Route Nationale 1 from Arta to Galafi. The highly deteriorated condition of the Route
Nationale 1 from the turnoff for Arta to Galafi presents a series of local environmental problems related
to road use, traffic safety and truck accidents. Physical degradation has led to extremely high dust levels
that create serious road safety problems and contribute to the many accidents experienced by truck traffic
along the road. The high dust levels also constitute a health and nuisance problem for towns located along
Route Nationale 1, especially Yoboki, which is located immediately adjacent to the road and in an area
with highly dust prone soils. Roadside vegetation is damaged by dust and there are problems with
drainage features locally blocked by the road. A special environmental problem associated with high
truck volume, including transport of petroleum products, is the frequent rate of major accidents caused by
poor visibility from dust, overloading of trucks and use of poorly designed tanker trailers. These accidents
result in serious injuries, loss of life and, when petroleum products are involved, localized spillage of
materials onto areas adjacent to the road, and potentially into underground water flows.
D.    POTENTIAL IMPACTS
13.   Potential Environmental Impacts - Rehabilitation Phase. The Project will result in significant
environmental, health and safety improvements along the two road sections to be rehabilitated with IDA
support. The impact on the Port of Djibouti will be neutral given that the current levels of traffic have
already been established and the road improvements are anticipated only to provide for more efficient
movement of these shipments to and from the Port of Djibouti and Ethiopia.
14.   Port of Djibouti. The Project will not result in an increase in the current amount of vessel traffic
in the Port of Djibouti; however, it will allow for a reduction in the travel times for trucks carrying goods
to and from the Port to and from points in Ethiopia. This will reduce truck congestion in the Port area and
decrease the number of vehicles requiring repair. The ongoing efforts of the international petroleum
companies to correct the historic soil and groundwater pollution problem in the Port of Djibouti will
continue and should be completed over the next 24 months. Efforts will continue by PAID and the three
international oil companies to control and combat operational oil spills within the Port. Efforts are
planned by PERSGA, under the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, to revitalize
the MEMAC and make the equipment stored in the Port available for control of oil spills in the open
marine environment.
15.    Route Nationale 1 - Road Sections 1 and 2. The Project will result in environmental
improvements along both road segments through upgrading of road conditions, sealing the road bed to
reduce dust levels, rehabilitating crossing structures for ephemeral streams, and improving cross drainage
facilities. Implementation of the Project will result in a major reduction in the number and severity of
accidents associated with current road conditions.
85



(a)    Road Section I - Route Nationale I from Dikhil to Galafi. This will include total
rehabilitation and reconstruction of a completely deteriorated segment of road
approximately 102 km long, which will result in temporary construction impacts over a
12-18 month period. These impacts are associated with the repair and/or replacement of
sections of road surface and reconstruction of streambed crossings. This will require
expanded use of existing construction sites, removal and disposal of waste materials from
the roadbed and disposal of containers of bitumen and other types of sealers. Pollution of
land and soils will occur locally from the disposal, both controlled and uncontrolled, of
tires, broken parts, waste fuel and used lubricants for heavy machinery and trucks
engaged in the construction process. In some areas noise and dust levels will be
temporarily aggravated by the construction process. In some places the need to provide
temporary bypass roads for traffic to avoid areas under reconstruction will also result in
local damage to vegetation. In addition, if improperly carried out, quarrying and earth-
borrowing activities may leave these sites susceptible to excessive wind and water
erosion. This may impose additional costs on the road itself, if resulting changes in storm
water drainage cause unforeseen deterioration in the road surface or bed.
(b)    Road Section 2 - Route Nationale 1 from Turnofffor Arta to Dikhil. The localized
repair and rehabilitation of Road Section 2 from Arta to Dikhil will result in temporary
construction impacts over a 12-month period. These impacts are projected to be similar in
nature; however, more restricted in scope to those described immediately above for Road
Section 1. Their more limited nature is due to the focus of this Sub-Component on
targeted rehabilitation and repair of this section of the Route Nationale 1.
16.    Other Issues. The field review included examination of the following issues:
(a)    Parks and Protected Areas. The current status of parks and protected areas was
reviewed, as well as the findings and recommendations of the draft Biodiversity Strategy.
This review indicated that no present parks or protected areas are located within or
adjacent to the proposed Project area. However, the Agna Region, just southwest of the
road near Yoboki, because of its rich biodiversity, and the Galafi Plain, because of its
importance for migrating birds, are being proposed by MOE for potential listing as
protected areas under the Ramsar Convention, along with the Lac Abbe, a seasonal
wetland on the southwestern border area.
(b)    Archaeological, Historical and Sacred Sites. Project preparation has included
consultation with representatives of Institut Superieur d'Etudes et des Recherches
Scientifiques et Techniques (ISERST) which is responsible for management of cultural
resources in Djibouti. They made a review and confirmed that the proposed road
rehabilitation activities would not have a direct adverse impact on any known
archaeological or historical sites. As part of this review process ISERST prepared a list of
recorded sites in the greater Project area that will be used by the Project team to avoid
disruption and/or damage to these sites. Current plans call for the excavation of
construction materials from previously developed sites used when the Route Nationale 1
was originally built which should limit impacts in these areas; however, it is planned that
a representative of ISERST would be on-site during important earth work and materials
gathering activities. In addition, some mosques and shrines are located at a safe distance
from the road. A number of graveyards exist along the road at various points adjacent to
settlements. These are clearly visible and could be easily avoided during Project financed
road rehabilitation activities.
86



17.    Potential Environmental Impacts - Operation Phase. Potential environmental impacts
associated with the operation phase of the Project include:
(a)    Port of Djibouti. There will remain a continued risk of oil spills from tankers traveling to
and from the Port as well as operational risks associated with the unloading and storage
of petroleum products. The loading, unloading and storage of petroleum products and dry
goods at the Port will continue to present worker health and safety risks and a chance of
fire or explosion within the Port area. These risks can be minimized through the
continued work of the environment, health and safety officers of the PAID and
international oil companies, in collaboration with the Environment Department. These
environmental management activities are viewed as being beyond the scope of the
proposed Project.
(b)    Road Sections 1 and 2. The rehabilitated road sections will require regular maintenance
which if deferred will result in immediate deterioration and a return to current conditions.
Measures will need to be taken to improve vehicle standards and to enforce reasonable
cargo safety controls for loads leaving the Port. Efforts will also need to be taken to
establish some form of traffic safety control. There is a risk of increase in the number and
severity of vehicle collisions as a result of faster driving on the improved road surface.
Informal development of roadside facilities for use by the truckers will continue at
various points along the road to provide a range of services. Road crossings will be
designed to minimize risk of damage and disruption from flash flooding during severe
rainstorms and maintenance will be provided to keep cross drainage and culverts open
and free of sediment, vegetation and trash.
E.    ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
18.    Proposed Rehabilitation Project. The proposed Project offers very limited opportunities for the
analysis of alternatives given the focus on the emergency rehabilitation of the existing road. Options open
to Ethiopia for the import of dry goods, food and fuel and export of its products are limited at present due
to political issues in the region, which make use of other ports on a regular basis either impossible or very
difficult. The "no action alternative" or "without project alternative" is not acceptable, as this would
seriously restrict the ability of Ethiopia to import or export goods via the sea. Options within Djibouti are
limited since it has only one site suitable for use as an international port. The planned European Union
study and its associated project, described below, will support evaluation of alternative surface transport
options from the Port of Djibouti to Ethiopia; however, these choices are limited by topographical and
construction feasibility, environmental and social aspects and cost considerations. If an alternative route
were to be selected as the result of the feasibility study, it would still require several years to design and
construct. This would not reduce the benefit of rehabilitating the existing road, which would continue to
be used heavily until the new road was opened and/or a decision made for additional investment in
railroad services.
19.    European Union Supported Transport Study. With the support of the EU, Djibouti and
Ethiopia are in the process of starting a major study, which will provide a broad analysis of medium and
long-term surface transport alternatives between these two countries. This study will provide the
necessary framework for decisions on surface transportation investments that will go beyond the short-
term scope of the road rehabilitation interventions to be supported under the proposed Project. The EU
supported study will include an evaluation of the transport corridor between Djibouti and Ethiopia and
support a comparative analysis of all existing surface routes, including the Dobi road, Denwele road and
the railway, and also examine other possible future surface routes between Ethiopia and Djibouti. This
study is anticipated to provide an analysis that decision makers need to determine their transport strategy
87



and prioritize specific investment actions. The study is expected to result in a series of projects that will
be considered for support by the EU and other parties interested in supporting regional infrastructure
investments.
20.    Review of Storm Water Management. Geo-technical specialists will examine in detail
questions of storm water drainage and flash flooding as part of this EU-supported study (campagne de
deflection). These studies are expected to begin at the end of May 2000. The geo-technical specialists will
interface with the design consultants for the proposed IDA Project, who will be in Djibouti at the same
time, in order to determine the appropriate measures to be taken on each of the projects to address these
questions.
F.    SOCIAL ASPECTS
21.    Overview. The Project preparation process has identified two social issues that should be
addressed under the Project: (a) access to construction period employment by local residents in the
Project area; and (b) potential for increased transmission of HIV/AIDS along the rehabilitated transport
corridor. These issues have been included in the EMP to facilitate their integration into mitigation
measures, monitoring actions and the supervision and reporting process for the Project.
22.   Access to Employment. The field review indicated that within the Project area, the primary
social issue from the viewpoint of both local government and residents is access to Project related
employment. Implementation arrangements have guaranteed that local contractors and force account
details will be responsible for the bulk of the actual civil works (overseen and managed by an
international construction management consultant). These contractors will bring their own skilled labor
with them to the job site. It is anticipated that most of the skilled labor force will come from Djibouti
City. However, some local hires will inevitably occur for unskilled workers; the number of such workers
needed will be left to the discretion of the successful bidding contractors. Consultations with local
officials, tribal elders, and local nongovernmental organizations have concluded with the agreement that
the arrangements of the logistics of such unskilled employment is best left to local customs and traditions.
Local leaders and tribal elders present at the consultations have pledged their support and cooperation to
assure the process goes smoothly.
23.    HIVIAIDS. The Project, consistent with the approach adopted for similar IDA funded
transportation projects in Africa, will include support for an HIV/AIDS education and outreach program.
Activities will be coordinated at the national level with the PIU and the Ministry of Health, in cooperation
with the World Health Organization, which is administering funds for a national level HIV/AIDS
program in Djibouti. Activities during Phase I of the Project will identify the best manner in which the
Bank can contribute to these HIV/AIDS efforts in connection with the Route Nationale 1, with the
intention that identified activities will be undertaken during Phase II of the Project. These preparatory
activities will include local level discussions with government representatives in Dikhil District, as well
as community organizations that address employment and HIV/AIDS education measures. This program
will be designed to address the local population as well as truck drivers and other service personnel from
Ethiopia who are transiting or temporarily in residence in Djibouti. The effort will also be coordinated
with the planned and on-going HIV/AIDS activities supported by other multi- and bi-lateral aid
institutions.
G.    MITIGATION MEASURES
24.    Mitigation Measures. The EMP supports specific measures to mitigate potential construction
and operation period impacts and to address road safety issues, adoption of archaeological "chance find'
88



procedures and management of graveyards and burials if they are encountered during construction.
Provisions are also being made for the planning and conduct of a HIV/AIDS outreach program. The EMP
provides for instructions to be given to the design engineers and construction contractors for undertaking
specific actions to support implementation of portions of the Plan. The EMP supports the following:
(a)    Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts. Specific measures to reduce potential
construction impacts will be taken regarding the detailed design, construction tenders,
construction process and contractor performance monitoring. Contracts will contain
requirements for proper management of construction waste; control measures for waste
fuel, oil and lubricants; reduction of noise and dust levels; and rehabilitation of areas used
for bypass roads and sites used construction materials. Contractors will be required to
provide and maintain equipment with proper noise abatement controls. Specific
provisions should be included in construction contracts to mandate the use of formal
health and safety measures to minimize accidents and avoid fatalities during the
construction process.
(b)    Management of Operational Impacts. The Project will address operational impacts
through support for a road maintenance program for three years to avoid deterioration of
the rehabilitated road and associated dust and safety problems. Maintenance teams will
be required to follow procedures similar to those for the construction contractors
concerning proper disposal of construction waste, control measures for waste fuel, oil and
lubricants and adoption of health and safety measures for personnel. It is not anticipated
that the road rehabilitation will result in a significant increase in traffic volume, therefore
air pollution from vehicle emissions will stay neutral or decrease due to use of improved
vehicle standards. Suspended dust caused by vehicles will be radically reduced by the
rehabilitation of the road, which will include resurfacing and sealing operations.
(c)    Storm Water and Sediment Management. Final designs for the road rehabilitation
program will take into account storm water and sediment management requirements for
oued crossings and culverts as agreed between design consultants working under the
Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (PHRD)-funded project
preparation, and geo-technical specialists working as part of the feasibility study for the
EU-funded program. As part of the maintenance program, the implementing agency of
Phase II of the proposed Project will make certain that routine maintenance is undertaken
to keep oued crossings clear of debris and that culverts are regularly cleared of sediment
and debris during the three year period of implementation.
(d)    Road Safety Measures. Important mitigation actions under Phase II of the Project include
three complementary interventions to support improved road safety:
(i)  Sub-Component B - Axle-Load Control: This mitigation measure will support
establishment of an axle load control station, procurement of related equipment,
including weigh bridge stations, and training of personnel. This intervention should
reduce the incidence of excessive loads on trucks carrying dry goods or petroleum
tanks and help to lower the rate of accidents due to axle and tire failure.
(ii) Sub-Component C - Technical Assistance. The sub-component will support
technical assistance for advisory and planning services and training for a road
safety study and priority implementation measures. This will include evaluation of
the incidence and causes of accidents, identification of measures that can be taken
to reduce accidents and recommendations for priority actions to be implemented
89



within the life of the Project. The preparation of this study will be coordinated with
PAID since outbound trucks originate in the port.
(e)    Use of Archaeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Attachment C contains proposed
procedures for archaeological "chance finds," should they be encountered during the
course of construction activities. These procedures have been developed in consultation
with the ISERST. The provisions of these "chance find" procedures will be included as
an annex to the Tender documents for construction contractors and Terms of Reference
for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender Conference will include provisions for a
session on environmental and social issues during which the archaeological "chance find"
procedures will be reviewed with potential construction contractors.
(f)    Archaeological Field Support. ISERST will provide a qualified archaeologist to conduct
field investigations when important earth work and materials gathering activities are
undertaken. The archaeologist would be attached to the Construction Manager's team and
provided transport and office space at the road camp in Dikhil. A list of known sites in
the region has been compiled and will be provided to the Construction Manager,
supervising engineer, and individual contractors. These sites would also be discussed as
an element of the environmental and social section of the Pre-Tender Conference.
(g)    Graveyards and Burials. If unrecorded graveyards and/or burials are found during the
course of construction activities, the PIU will contact and work with local religious
authorities within the Project area to allow for possible identification of the remains and
when appropriate properly undertake relocation and reburial.
(h)    Local Employment. The mechanism for the rapid rehabilitation of the road has been
designed to maximize the use of local resources while still guaranteeing timely
completion of the Project. Skilled labor provided by these local resources is unlikely to
be hired locally in the Project area. However, there will be a need by the various
contractors for unskilled labor, a need most likely to be filled locally, within the Project
area. Consultations with local leaders in Dikhil concluded that the arrangements for such
employment was best handled according to local tradition and custom. Contractors will
be expected to use widely practiced measures to safeguard worker health and safety, to
minimize accidents, and prevent fatalities.
(i)    HIVIAIDS Outreach Program. The mitigation plan includes support for an HIV/AIDS
education and outreach program. These activities would be coordinated with the Ministry
of Health, local government representatives in Dikhil and other settlements in the Project
area, and international institutions and NGOs working on HIV/AIDS issues in Djibouti.
This program will be designed to address the needs of three audiences: (i) the local
population in the Project area; (ii) truck drivers and other service personnel from Ethiopia
who are transiting or temporarily in residence in Djibouti; and (iii) personnel from
construction and maintenance contractors.
25.    Measures for Design and Construction Contracts. The EMP includes the following mitigation
measures for detailed design, construction tenders and construction contracts:
(a)    Detailed Design. The detailed design process for rehabilitation of the road will include
consideration for environmental, cultural heritage and sacred sites issues. In this context
special consideration will be given to measures to address design of wadi crossings
(drifts) and culverts to take into account flash flooding and efficient maintenance. In
90



locations where the road will pass close to local communities, measures will be taken for
consultation with local authorities and public representatives to support finalization of
designs. In addition, as appropriate the staff of the Consultant will investigate localized
design issues that would reduce impacts to the environment.
(b)    Construction Tender. All construction contracts will include specific provisions
concerning environmental, health and safety measures. All successful contractors will be
required to have their staff participate in a Project sponsored H1V/AIDS awareness
program. The Pre-Tender Conference for potential construction contractors will include a
briefing concerning their responsibilities to address environmental, health and safety
issues. These briefings will outline the specific provisions of the Construction Tender
Documents and Contracts.
(c)    Pre-Tender Conference. All pre-qualified contractors will be called to a Pre-Tender
Conference at which issues of special interest or concern will be outlined. With regard to
environmental, health and safety issues the Contractors will be briefed on:
(i)   Environment, Health and Safety. This includes provisions in the contracts regarding
requirements to address environmental, health and safety issues as part of the road
rehabilitation works. These include provisions for the proper management and
disposal of waste materials, oil, lubricants and fuel and adoption and use of proper
health and safety measures for construction workers. This will include information
on the need for staff to participate in the HIV/AIDS awareness program.
(ii) Sensitive Areas. Areas within or immediately adjacent to the construction area
which are sensitive from an environmental, cultural heritage or sacred sites
perspective will be identified in the final engineering drawings. Standard conditions
requiring special care in the vicinity of the defined sites so as not to disturb them
will be issued by the PITU.
(iii) Procedures for New Borrow Areas and Quarry Sites. The location of new borrow
areas and quarry sites selected by the contractor will be reviewed and formally
approved by the PIU, MOE and the ISERST to prevent environmental values being
damaged by quarrying or borrow excavation. Such inspection will not be
unreasonably delayed.
H.    MONITORING ACTIVITIES
26.    Monitoring Plan. The Monitoring Plan for the EMP for the Project will be implemented by the
PIU, with the active involvement of the MOE and support of the Ministry of Health, and include the
measures outlined below. The main responsibility for monitoring activities will rest with the PIU, with the
support of the supervising engineer, who will work together to integrate environmental, health and safety
concerns into the overall planning, implementation and operation of the Project. The PIU will monitor
application of measures for detailed design, construction tenders and construction contracts. The results of
monitoring activities will be included as routine elements of reports prepared by the PIU, with the
assistance of the supervising engineer, with copies to the MET and IDA. Key activities include:
(a)    Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts. The PIU, with the support of the
supervising engineer as appropriate, will regularly monitor implementation of the
mitigation measures adopted for the Project to address construction period impacts for
road rehabilitation activities.
91



(b)   Management of Operational Impacts. The PIJ, with the support of the supervising
engineer as appropriate, will regularly monitor implementation of the mitigation
measures adopted for the Project to address operational impacts during the period in
which support will be provided under the Project for maintenance of the rehabilitated
road. These procedures should be continued after the close of the IDA Project.
(c)    Storm Water and Sediment Management. The PIU, with the support of the supervising
engineer, will review the provisions made in the designs to address these issues, monitor
compliance with these designs by the construction contractor and check on the
maintenance activities undertaken by the Roads Department and/or maintenance
contractors.
(d)   Road Safety Measures. Implementation of the various interventions to support road
safety will be the responsibility of the PIU and will be included in the routine reporting
on Project progress during Phases I and II.
(e)    Use of Archaeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Application of the archaeological
"chance find" procedures, if required during the course of road rehabilitation, will be
monitored by the supervising engineer and the PIU and ISERST.
(f)    Archaeological Field Support. The on-site work of the archaeologist from ISERST will
be monitored by the PITJ, Construction Manager and the management of ISERST. A
record would be maintained of the archaeologist's activities and information compiled on
sites located and/or materials found during this fieldwork.
(g)    Graveyards and Burials. The implementation of any actions to address issues related to
unrecorded graveyards and/or burials will be undertaken by the PIU in conjunction with
local authorities.
(h)   HIVIAIDS Outreach Program. The implementation of the HIV/AIDS education and
outreach program will be monitored by the PIU with the assistance of the Ministry of
Health. The supervising engineer will monitor the proper implementation of HIV/AIDS
procedures affecting construction and maintenance personnel.
I.    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
27.   Institutional Strengthening. Consistent with IDA environmental procedures, a review was made
of potential institutional strengthening activities that should be included under the Project to address
environmental concerns. The key actions included in the Mitigation Measures section of the EMP are
support for training in road safety activities in conjunction with investments to control truck loads and the
use of standard clauses on environmental, health and safety issues for construction contracts. ISERST will
gain experience in cultural resources management through the adoption of archaeological "chance find"
procedures and conduct of on-site investigation in conjunction with the physical works program. In
addition, the HIV/AIDS outreach program will support significantly improved knowledge of this health
and development challenge.
J.    ESTIMATED COST AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
28.   Estimated Cost and Implementation Schedule. Costs have been developed for the
implementation of this EMP and are included in the Project Appraisal Document. Most of the proposed
EMP mitigation and monitoring activities will be addressed under provisions of the construction
92



contracts, engineering supervision contract and the proposed technical assistance Sub-Component of
Phase II. In addition, the Project will include an implementation schedule that integrates the activities of
the EMP into the overall schedule.
K.    REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
29.   Reporting. As an element of Project reporting requirements, the PIU will prepare routine reports
concerning progress in implementation of activities related to the EMP. These reports should note any
contractor non-compliance with the EMP and provide guiding remarks on the actions to be taken. The
significance of the non-compliance should also be noted. As necessary, supplemental reports with greater
detail than the routine reports also will be prepared on these topics.
30.   Project Supervision. The Supervision Plan for the proposed Project will include provisions for
the participation of World Bank environmental staff in supervision missions, as appropriate, to review
progress in implementation of the EMP. The performance of the PIU in the implementation of these
activities under the Project will be a standard element of supervision reports, including the Early
Implementation Assessment, Mid-Term Review and the Implementation Completion Report.
L.    DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
31.   Disclosure of Information. Consultations have been undertaken with a range of agencies and
stakeholders in Djibouti and will be expanded during the implementation process. Consistent with the
procedures of IDA, the Government of Djibouti has agreed to make the EMP, which is included as an
Annex to the Project Appraisal Document, available to the public through to the Info-Shop at the World
Bank and at selected locations in Djibouti, including the offices of Dikhil and Djibouti Districts, and the
Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial Management. The EMP has been
prepared and distributed in both English and French.
93



Attachment A
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Management Plan
List of Persons Contacted
Ministry of Equipment and Transport
His Excellency Osman Idriss Djama        Minister
Mahamoud Ahmed Awaleh                    Head of Public Works
Mohamed Ali Ismael                       Technical Advisor
M. Le Brishoual                          Technical Advisor
B. Guillemot                             Head of Mission to the Department of Public
Works
Ministry of Habitat, Urban Affairs, Environment and Territorial Management
His Excellency Saleban Omar Oudin        Minister
Mr. Aboubaker Doualeh Waiss              Technical Advisor
Mr. Dini Abdallah Omar                   Deputy Director, Department of Environment
Mr. Nasser Djama Abdi                    PERSGA  Coordinator/Red Sea and Gulf of
Aden Program
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Marine Affairs
Mr. Ahmed Osman Omar                     Director, Marine Affairs
Mr. Hassan Aden Hared                    Chief of Pollution Division, Marine Affairs
Directorate
Ministry of Ports
Mr. Abdoulkader A. Hassan                Port Officer in Charge of Security, International
Autonomous Port of Djibouti (PAID)
Dikhil District
Mr. Osman R. Dobar                       1st Deputy to the Commissioner and Dikhil
District Chief
Hamad Mohamnmed Hamad                    2nd Deputy to the Commissioner and Dikhil
District Chief
Private Sector
Mr. Ayanleh Idriss Hassan                Director of Operations, Shell Djibouti
Mr. Wagdi Omar Dorani                    Safety, Health and Environment Manager, Mobil
Djibouti
94



Attachment B
DJIBOUTI:- INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Enviromnental Management Plan
Record of Public Consultations
1.    Consultation Process. Public consultations on the proposed Djibouti - Rehabilitation of the
International Road Corridor were held on the 29th and 30th of April, in Djibouti City and in Dikhil,
respectively. The agenda for the meetings included: an introduction; description of the proposed Project;
review of economic, social and environmental aspects; information on the role of the World Bank and a
question and comment session. Participants received a Project information sheet and copies of the
Environmental Management Plan, in French, were circulated.
2.    Consultation Meetings. The consultation meetings were held as follows:
= Djibouti City. The consultation in Djibouti City was chaired by M. Mahmoud Awaleh, interim
Director of Public Works, and was held at the Djibouti Chamber of Commerce. A list of participants
invited and those who attended is attached as Sub Attachment 1. The proceedings, carried out in
French, were reported in the national French language newspaper, and on national news programs.
* Dikhil and Yoboki. The consultation in Dikhil occurred at the Office of Dikhil District, and was
chaired by M. Moussa Djama Guedi, Commissar of the Republic for Dikhil District. Proceedings
were conducted in French and Somali, with the aid of a local translator. A list of the participants
invited and those who attended is provided as Sub-Attachment 2. In lieu of holding a separate
consultation in Yoboki, the Commissar of the District made arrangements for representatives of
concerned parties to come from Yoboki down to Dikhil to participate in the Public Consultation there.
* Oue'a. It was also decided that a Consultation at Oue'a was not necessary, since only the most minor
road repairs might occur in this area, the bulk of the repair work for the Arta spur to Dikhil section of
the road being located in the Petit Bara, in Dikhil District.
3.    Minutes of Public Consultation in Djibouti City. Mr. Awaleh greeted and thanked those in
attendance for their time. Following introductions of all in attendance, he summarized the proposed
Project, talking about components of the Project, the structure of the construction team, and the timeline
for implementation. Mr. Dini Abdallah Omar, Deputy Director of the Department of Environment, then
summarized the currently identified environmental and social impacts of the Project during and after
implementation. Next, Mr. Roger Gorham (MNSID) summarized the scope of World Bank involvement
in the Project, focusing on the credit itself, and technical assistance during preparation and
implementation. He also discussed briefly Project preparation funds made available through the PHRD
program.
4.    Comments. A discussion period followed, during which the following points were raised and
discussed:
* There was some concern that the road would degrade even more before rehabilitation would begin.
Mr. Awaleh explained that the Project preparation timetable was tightly constrained for just this
95



reason. Mr. Allemand of the World Food Program indicated that his agency has proposed the
financing of emergency continuous grading and basic maintenance of the road, starting in late May
2000, until the Bank-financed rehabilitation Project begins implementation, in order to keep the road
open for food aid and other traffic over the next several months.
* There was also concern expressed that traffic accidents along the RN 1, particularly those involving
hazardous materials spills, were not addressed quickly enough, and that the Project should envision
the inclusion of some kind of brigade to handle such emergencies. Mr. Awaleh expressed the
Government's belief that such a brigade should be the responsibility of the private sector - that is, the
road users themselves. Mr. Gorham pointed out that there are some Technical Assistance provisions
in the Project for both axle load controls and a road safety component (to be determined later), and
that while such a brigade may be out of the scope of this Project, some of these concerns will be taken
into account by these other components.
* Some concern was expressed about the need for a road connection to Ethiopia via Ali Sabieh and Dire
Dawa, since such a connection would be a more direct link to the famine area. It was explained that
such a large scale decision was not in the scope of the proposed IDA-financed Project, but that the
question would be looked at in detail in the EU-financed study now beginning work.
5.    Minutes of Public Consultation in Dikhil. Mr. Guedi greeted Mr. Awaleh and the World Bank
representatives on behalf of the District, and thanked them for their attendance. He then introduced local
invitees in attendance. Next, he gave a brief description of Dikhil District, which is organized into three
administrative centers, two of which (Dikhil and Yoboki) are directly impacted by the proposed
rehabilitation. He also briefly discussed the Government's decentralization initiative, which is creating
regional councils in all the Districts.
6.    Summary of Proposed Project. Mr. Awaleh summarized the proposed Project, including its
components, the structure of the construction team, and the timeline for implementation. Mr. Gorham
then summarized the scope of World Bank involvement in the Project, focusing on the credit itself, and
technical assistance during preparation and implementation. He also discussed briefly Project preparation
funds made available through the PHRD program. As Mr. Dini was unable to attend the Public
Consultation in Dikhil, Mr. Awaleh summarized the likely environmental and social impacts of the
Project. These presentations were all translated periodically into Somali.
7.    Key Issues. Mr. Guedi indicated his own satisfaction with the progress and nature of the
proposed Project, indicating that the condition of the road has had significant negative consequences on
various aspects of economic life in Dikhil District, including degradation of agricultural products because
of dust and damage during transport and the loss of entrepreneurial activity near the roadside because of
the impact of road dust.
8.    Comments. A discussion period followed, during which the following points were raised and
discussed:
* A local health department official in Yoboki identified asthma as one of the significant health
problems in Yoboki (particularly among children), presumably because, of the presence of road dust.
* Concern was expressed about the location of the police station at the entry of Dikhil; the location
posed a potential hazard because trucks might lose control on the descent into the town and would not
be able to avoid hitting it. Mr. Awaleh explained that such considerations would be taken into account
in the pre-feasibility study for the long-term road options being financed by the EU. Consultants from
96



Profabril, the Portuguese consultant responsible for carrying out the study, were present at the Public
Consultation, and made note of these concerns.
*  Concern was also expressed about potential loss of water resources to the region as a result of
materials gathering and quarrying. It was felt that, at a minimum, there needed to be requirements to
rehabilitate landscapes following materials gathering in order to avoid changing drainage patterns
following rains, and related soil erosion.
*  A question was asked about whether Dikhil-based contractors would be given preference in the
works. Mr. Awaleh summarized the procedure that would be used to select contractors, and indicated
that since speed in execution was an overriding concern, the works would necessarily need to be
executed primarily through mechanized equipment, and that he did not believe that most Dikhil-based
contractors would qualify for the main works contracts on that basis, but that they were welcome to
submit proposals. He indicated, however, that winning contractors would no doubt need to hire local
manpower for various tasks, mostly unskilled, and that one of the reasons for this Consultation was to
alert the local community. He expressed his hope that the consultation would: (a) allow the local
community to organize the structure of the local labor that would need to be hired; and (b) minimize
potential conflicts which may have arisen regarding local labor questions.
*  Finally, a tribal elder, speaking in Somali, thanked the Bank and the Department of Public Works for
their efforts, and indicated that this Project was badly needed. He indicated that local elders would
assist in any way possible.
Mr. Guedi thanked all in attendance, and the Consultation was adjourned.
97



Sub-Attachment 1                                              Djibouti Meeting - Page 1 of 2
REHABILITATION D'URGENCE DU CORRIDOR
ROUTIER DJIBOUTO-ETHIOPIEN
(R6union du 29 Avril 2000)
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS
NO          Nom du participant                 Dipartement ou ONG                Signature
ou autre (B.P. et tel.)
-aiR    AAflE#lk    Al,     A   -L   G~ 
__S n    A ;r.111
4_  npg iztrmmaJ T4 .                                    44'    J J?
2 SfE  11 RRA__                               -
.3    -tA-      A.;~l5*S,*f*;,
j4  sAbALI 3#                          M      Z /S.|                       7
15  I~ 1:  kF Ab&st             .      LA Ptc-ts1  2#AZ
16 Se l@a. ,                               c>\C  4                    t2 z.'.j  Z
105, C^t, 14 ^ t-    \4S4 e-L-Pl            4-  LAJ            t.;    ,A 
20   n r   -                         _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
24   AA              ff.T AXJd)FW                         '             . T.f
16 SeoA - L e-S<b  fi,00e4Rd                           P/9 fly 8
7  ZW  z    S-r.1k                             qX4,sfeq  7,/6't  m
_8                                               ,            .,l
20  ta                                   _Art^  k l_4......I 
21 1ZIA)l- ALIAl    OMAIR   101m oot                     '6-s  
;23                                                 P  OI, *.1  ir>i;  t>t; -6
98



Sub-Attachment 1                                                Djibouti Meeting - Page 2 of 2
REHABILITATION D'URGENCE DU CORRIDOR
ROUTIER DJIBOUTO-ETHIOPIEN
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS
NO           Nom du participant                 D6partement ou ONG                  Signature
_ ______.  _____-______.____                 ou  autre (B,P. et tel.)
25  izNiA           Omt-A-  NA rvd.co                              J
28     ._._.__                     -_._._ ___._
29 __
-30 
31  ___ _--__  _-_ _.__-__   _._ _l
33   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   ___                     _ _ __I___   _ _
35    _                  ._._.
36                        .          .               ,       .                           .
37..
99



Sub-Attachment 2                                                Dikhil Meeting - Page 1 of 2
REHABILITATION D'URGENCE DU CORRIDOR
ROUTIER DJIBOUTO-ETHIIOPIEN
(Reunion du 30 Avril 2000w 9C.&k4)
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS
No          Nom du participant                 D6partement ou ONG                Signature
ou autre (B.P. et tel.)             1
4   ,   _, - --- XQ  Wl_W                                      -'
6    Ssan  Uo0tt         PWAL                 A  h'.t                   A
1               V4A. t                   Vh I  t         yA T4i.AdA.oVto Pol#   ___S_;    _
Ld1 5o 4p j       6 + t <   f fW z   v  . A 4.  /                          _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _
_1  )fmvAu&  R     L4 P1i-  q A          Cj,g1sa.&  ~.
120                                    f A.  . A                  1   _
2D MAIO  6ogbl blDhthf           a       1I   S"             % ...0
14            41t6vb, G,lh .........I -bW N                t  Faf1i
15  -rVW&    W494.bk                        0        W,; 0   W
Ir.s, 7                                           L- -r a. Cet1{^ PA t
is    M, *c-4   SP                     ASSCO,4; aue-&-&  e.~       I_
21  ifA &J4 n       r                 e            z4    dl e^=e"J                    6
22 dakX                          f                    ;          \Pad   ;-   ,18  R  C= 1
100



Sub-Attachment 2                                                    Dikhil Meeting - Page 2 of 2
REHABILITATION D'URGENCE DU CORRIDOR
ROUTIER DJIB3OUTO-ETHIOPIEN
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS
NO           Nom du participant                   DNpartement ou ONG                    Signature
-T                             __             ou autre (B.P. et tel.)
25 mo"t.Fi  -4OumtVV   ?AW
26
29_                                        _    _     _    _    _    _    _
32 4 1                                   ________________________________A; _______a h    l 
- 3 6  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __          _                                  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3a                                                  7                                  ___ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _
31X 
33  __--__
34-
35
-37
40    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                         ___ __  ___  _ _ _ _ _
-38 
40 
41 ________                                                                     _
421-
43 -
44_
45
101



Attachment C
DJIBOUTI:- INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental and Social Management Plan
Archaeological Chance Find Procedures
1.    Introduction. Consistent with the Antiquities Code of Djibouti and the Cultural Heritage
procedures of the International Development Association, as outlined in the Updates to the Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook, a set of archaeological "chance find" procedures would be used for the
Rehabilitation of International Road Corridor Project (Project). These procedures would provide a
mechanism for the construction contractor(s) and the supervising engineer to address, in a cost-effective
and timely manner, situations in which buried archaeological and/or historical sites or materials are
encountered during the course of construction activities under the Project. These are sites which are
unknown and unrecorded at the time of the Project and have not been identified by an archaeological
survey or other mechanism.
2.    Definitions. The term "find" is defined for the purposes of this document as follows:
"Any structure, object, remain(s) or deposit(s) that is of demonstrable or suspected to be of an
archaeological or historical nature whether in situ or not."
This definition covers four classes of "chance finds:"
(a)  Cultural Deposits. Archaeological deposits or levels relating to construction, occupation/use,
and disuse, demolition and abandonment.
(b)  Structural Remains and Cultural Deposits. This includes walls, foundations, floors,
decorated architectural stonework, architectural elements (columns, pilasters, column bases),
architectural masonry (other than blank geometric stone), architectural fittings (stone, wood,
ceramic, metal), ceramic building materials, marble and polished stone floors, mosaics
(ceramic, stone, glass, tesserae), stucco, molded plaster, painted plaster, earthfast and rockcut
graves or tombs, and cisterns.
(c) Artifacts. This includes ceramic objects (vessels, statuary, personal ornaments, coin dies),
stone objects (worked flint, vessels, statuary, personal ornaments, inscribed stonework, coin
dies), objects made of glass (vessels, statuary, personal ornaments, utensils, industrial
residue) and metal objects (vessels, statuary, personal ornaments, utensils, coins, weapons,
industrial residue).
(d) Ecofacts. This includes human bone (articulated or otherwise), worked animal bone/ivory,
wooden vessels, and worked wood.
3.    Procedures. Under the Project, the following procedures will be used for reporting, evaluation
and management of chance finds:
102



(a)  Role of the Construction Contractors and the Force Account Unit. Chance finds of
archaeological and/or historical materials or sites must be immediately reported by any of the
construction contractors, the force account unit and/or other parties involved in the Project to
the Construction Superintendent or other designated representative of the Construction
Manager on site.
(b)  Role of the Construction Manager. The Construction Superintendent or other designated
representative of the Construction Manager will immediately order work to be stopped in the
immediate area of the chance find for up to 72 hours to allow for the on-site representative of
the Institut Superieur d'Etudes et des Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques (ISERST) to
visit the locale, make an assessment, and provide instructions. The Construction
Superintendent or other designated representative of the Construction Manager will
immediately contact the on site representative of the ISERST to come and make an
assessment. The Construction Superintendent, or other designated representative of the
Construction Manager, may direct crews to continue to undertake works in areas adjacent to
the chance find area, consistent with Project design, upon consultation with and approval of
the on-site representative of the ISERST. The Construction Manager shall be responsible for
keeping the Project Coordinator apprised of the situation.
(b)  Role of the Supervising Engineer. The supervising engineer (SE) shall be responsible for
ensuring proper implementation of these "chance find" procedure. If the SE suspects that
these procedures are not being respected, he will be authorized to stop work in affected areas
until the situation can be resolved.
(c)  Role of the Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator shall provide trouble-shooting
services within the Government, liaising with the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, the
Ministry of Culture, local officials, any other Ministries which may be affected by the chance
find, and the Construction Manager in order to resolve any outstanding questions in the event
of a chance find as quickly as possible.
(d)  Role of the ISERST. The ISERST shall designate an on-site representative to survey
construction and materials gathering efforts related to the road rehabilitation. This on-site
representative shall reside at Dikhil during the entire period of materials gathering, quarrying,
and earth works. Once all materials gathering, quarrying, and earthworks procedures have
been completed, the designated ISERST representative shall no longer reside on-site, but
may, at his discretion, survey the progress of the works. The ISERST representative shall be
contacted immediately upon any chance find by the Construction Superintendent, or other
designated representative of the Construction Manager. As quickly as possible, and no later
than 24 hours after notification, the ISERST on-site representative will make an evaluation of
the significance of the materials, and provide guidance on next steps, which may include
recording, salvage, conservation and/or destruction after recording. The on-site representative
or other officials from the ISERST will work with representatives of the Project
Implementation Unit, the Construction Manager, the supervising engineer and local
authorities, to find a practical series of measures that would promote the conservation of
cultural heritage and facilitate the timely completion of the civil works under the Project.
4.     Graveyards and Burials. In the case of the discovery of unrecorded graveyards and/or burials,
the procedures outlined above in Paragraph 3 will be used; however, the Project Coordinator would
immediately contact the Commissar of Dikhil or Djibouti District depending on the location of the find, to
assist in working with local religious authorities within the Project area to allow for possible identification
of the remains and, when appropriate, to properly undertake relocation and reburial.
103



5.    Provisions in Contract and Tender Documents. These archaeological "chance find" procedures
will be provided as an annex to the Tender documents for construction contractors and Terms of
Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender Conference will include provisions for a session
on environmental and social issues during which the archaeological "chance find" procedures will be
reviewed with potential construction contractors.
6.    Contact Persons. The following individuals will serve as the contact persons for the
implementation of these procedures:
(a)  Ministry of Equipment and Transport [to be replaced with Project Coordinator upon
designation by the Government]
M. Mohamed Ali Hassan
Directeur du Bureau d'Execution du Projet (BEP)
Ministere de l'Equipment et des Transports
B.P. 2501 - Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Tel. (253) 35 79 13/35 09 90/35 11 01
Fax. (253)35 59 75
E-mail: imanaw@hotmail.com
(b) Institut Supe'rieur d'Etudes et des Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques
Dr. M. Gedda Mohamed Ahmed
Social Anthropologist and interim Head of the Department of Human
and Social Sciences
ISERST
BP 486 Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Tel. 35 84 32 or 34 16 17
Fax. 35 83 68
104



Annex 13: Terms of References
DJIBOUTI:- INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PAGE
* CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT                          106
* SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION WORKS                112
* PREPARATION OF PAVEMENT DESIGN CONCEPTS          115
* PREPARATION OF TYPICAL BIDDING DOCUMENTS          119
* PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS FOR SPARE PARTS  123
- TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
OF TRADE RELATED SERVICES                         124
* AUDIT OF PROJECT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,
SPECIAL ACCOUNTS AND ACCOMPANYING SOEs           126
* ESTABLISHING A FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND
PROCEDURES AT THE PIU                            129
* INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR THE ROAD SECTOR   134
* HIV/AIDS STUDY TO DEVELOP AWARENESS AND
AN OUTREACH PROGRAM                               144
* ROAD SAFETY AUDIT FOR NATIONAL ROAD NO. 1 IN DJIBOUTI  145
105



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1. The Government of Djibouti (GD) has requested assistance from the International Development
Association (IDA), for a program of emergency road repair of some sections of the national road to
Ethiopia. The Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MOET) will be responsible for the works to be
carried out by contractors selected through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, goods
contracts and some use of MOET equipment and forces. The works and goods will be supervised for
quality assurance and contractual compliance by international supervisors under contract to MOET.
2. The works to be carried out include emergency repairs on some 102 km of Dikhil - Galafi, (Ethiopian
Border), and 86 km of emergency repairs, pothole repairs and maintenance works in the Arta turnoff to
Dikhil section. The repair works consist of reconstruction of damaged and deteriorated sub-bases and
base courses, placement of a double layer of surface treatment, repair of minor drainage structures and
concrete drifts, shoulder and slope work and pot hole repairs. Maintenance works on the entire Djibouti -
Galafi road will be initiated under this project. The implementation period of the whole project will be
four years with the construction period lasting the first twelve months and the institutional strengthening
and maintenance period extending over the next thirty-six months.
B.    OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE OF WORKS
3.    The objectives of the assignment are to provide construction management services through the
pre-construction, construction and start of the maintenance phase. The construction manager's main goal
is to ensure that the work is properly installed in accordance with the project schedule.
4.    On behalf of the GD, the MOET proposes to invite technical and financial proposals from short
listed consultants to manage the installation of repair works for GD. The Construction Manager (CM) will
select the contracting methodology, including, but not limited to, competitively bid contracts for works
and goods, and use of the MOET equipment and personnel to perform works, and maintenance contracts.
The manager will use previously prepared bidding documents, modified if needed to conform with
constracting methods proposed by the CM, perform bid evaluations and award construction contracts with
the concurrence of GD. Supervision of the works will be by other consultants who will report directly to
GD. The manager will also select and manage GD equipment, personnel and a repair shop at Dikhil. This
will in effect create a force account unit to allow the manager options in carrying out the repair and
maintenance of the road. Details of the invitation/evaluation of proposals are given in the Request for
Proposal.
5.    The management team and man-months (m/m) for the management of all road works contracts,
should be proposed on the basis of the contracts' characteristics and construction periods. A preliminary
assessment is that the team would comprise at least, a Project Manager (with experience on construction,
repair and maintenance of national roads), a general field superintendent and a supervisor for the force
account unit. It is envisioned that equipment operators, mechanics, laborers, office staff and some field
survey staff is available from GD. The Consultant will indicate the number of GD staff support required
106



for the contract, and bidders are encouraged to visit MOET to determine staff resources likely to be
available prior to preparing bids.
C.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REQUIREMENTS
6.    Mitigation Measures. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) provides for instructions to
be given to the construction contractors for undertaking specific actions to support implementation of
portions of the Plan. For specifics refer to the EMP for the project which is available in English and in
French. The EMP supports the following:
(a)    Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts. Specific measures to reduce potential
construction impacts should be taken regarding the construction tenders, construction process
and contractor performance monitoring.
(b)    Management of Health and Safety issues. Specific measures to reduce construction period
worker health and safety issues should be taken regarding the construction tenders,
construction process and contractor performance monitoring.
(c)    As part of the maintenance program, the MOET will make certain that routine maintenance is
undertaken to keep water crossings clear of debris and that culverts are regularly cleared of
sediment and debris.
(d)    Regrading of material sites. The project would require the regrading of material collection
sites when extraction of materials is completed.
(e)    Cultural heritage. Provisions will be made for the services of an archaeologist from ISERST
to conduct on-site monitoring during major earth moving and materials collection, and
support implementation of archaeological "change find" procedures. In addition, specific
actions will be taken with respect to finding unrecorded graveyards and burial sites.
(f)    Local Employment. The project would work with local authorities, village chiefs and elders
in the project area to facilitate local employment by construction contractors.
(g)    Establishment of an HIV/AIDS Outreach Program. The project will support design and
implementation of an HIV/AIDS education and outreach program. This will be directed to
employees of the construction contractor, traveling industry, and permanent and temporary
residents of the project area.
7.    Measures for Design and Construction Contracts. The EMP includes the following mitigation
measures for construction tenders and construction contracts:
(a)    All construction contracts will include specific provisions concerning environmental,
health and safety measures.
(b)    Pre-Tender Conference. All pre-qualified contractors will be called to a pre-Tender
conference at which environmental issues of special interest or concern will be outlined.
This will include a review of the application of archaeological "chance find" procedures.
107



D.    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CONSTRUCTION MANAGER
8.    The construction manager will manage the works and admninister the works contracts and ensure
that contractual clauses whether related to quality or quantities of work, are carried out. The CM will
determine the most effective and economical way to implement the project.
9.    The CM will utilize plans and specifications furnished by GD, modified by the CM if needed to
conform with contracting methodology being used, and evaluate the most efficient and cost effective way
to implement the project by a combination of competitively bid contracts utilizing the private sector, by
materials purchase contracts of aggregates and other mnaterials, or by use of force account. The CM shall
also determine the number and size and type of contracts.
10.   The manager will ensure full compliance with the EMP in all aspects of the consultancy.
11.   Subsequent to receipt of the various bids the CM will evaluate the results and recommend award
or rejection.
12.   The CM will take the necessary measures to control the progress of works, and will make all
management decisions required for the satisfactory implementation of contracts in a timely manner.
However, after contracts are awarded, the Manager will seek approval of the GD to:
issue any variation order with financial implications, except in an emergency situation, as
reasonably determined by the CM;
-     issue variation in work quantities;
-     sanction additional items, sums or costs;
-     approve or sublet any part of the works; and
-     approve any extension of the time for completion.
13.   The Manager will carry out the following tasks:
(a)    Establish lines of communication and develop working procedures with the Djiboutian
Project Coordinator, who will be based in Djibouti City;
(b)   Include Project Coordinator in weekly staff meetings;
(c)    Mutually agree with the Project Coordinator on assignment of special areas of
responsibility to that office;
(d)    Develop a strategy to implement the work including works and goods contracts and force
account;
(e)   Issue the order to commence the works;
(f)    Manage the civil works and goods contracts;
(g)    Approve the works contractor's program of work;
(h)    Ensure that traffic operational safety is met before conmmencing the works;
108



(i)    Monitor progress of the work. If progress is not satisfactory, take necessary actions,
including supplementing or replacing the contractor's forces with force account personnel
and equipment;
(j)    Develop a force account unit capable of performing some works and all maintenance
works for the road;
(k)    Verify the work upon completion of the contracts;
(1)   Initiate a three year maintenance contract;
(m)   Monitor the works at the start of the maintenance period; and
(n)    advise MOET on all matters related to the execution of the contracts including providing
advise on Contractor's claims.
E.    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT
14.   The main responsibilities of the General Superintendent are:
(a)    Manage the performance of works in all aspects in the field including: ensuring that the
civil works contractors are installing critical parts of the work on time; ensuring
materials are delivered and produced on time; and that enough resources are in place to
complete the project according to schedule;
(b)    Maintain a daily presence in the field and take whatever measures are necessary to ensure
that schedule is met. This will range from giving directions to the works contractors, to
giving priority to certain parts of the work, to supplementing or replacing the contractors'
forces if they are unable or unwilling to perform;
(c)    Supervise the contractors in all matters concerning safety and care of the works, and
direct operations in case of an emergency situation affecting the safety of life, of the
works, or adjoining property;
(d)    Assign work to the force account manager and ensure proper interfacing with other
contractors;
(e)    Supervise the production of aggregates and other materials and ensure that the materials
are produced according to specification and schedule;
(f)    Supervise the startup of the maintenance program in the field carry out such duties, as
may be delegated in writing from the Construction Manager, in fulfilling the
terms of the contract.
F.    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FORCE ACCOUNT MANAGER
15.   The role of the Force Account Manager primarily is that of a field person supervising Force
Account operations. Initially, his role will be establishing a Force Account organization supported by a
reliable equipment capability. The main responsibilities of the Force Account Manager are:
109



(a)    Overall management of the force account personnel, plant and equipment;
(b)    Set up an equipment repair shop in Dikhil and select capable mechanics to install needed
repair parts and to keep the equipment operational;
(c)    Train operators to properly and skillfully operate the equipment;
(d)    Ensure that the repair shop is stocked with enough normal shop supplies and parts subject
to frequent replacement, to ensure no disruption to project schedule;
(e)    Train a labor force in road maintenance activities such as pot hole repairs, pavement
sealing, road side cleanup, sign installation and repair, installation of pavement markings,
etc.;
(f)    Set up system to keep track of actual equipment usage, down time and standby time and
repair costs;
(g)    Establish an equipment maintenance schedule;
(h)    Prepare cost estimates for performance of road repair works undertaken by the force
account group;
(i)    Establish an annual budget for the force account group;
(j)    Train Djiboutian counterpart to assume role of force account manager by the end of the
consultancy period; and
(k)    Carry out such duties, as may be delegated in writing from the construction manager,
under the terms of the Contract.
G.    OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONSTRUCTION MANAGER AND THE CLIENT
16.   The construction manager shall provide additional key expatriate staff personnel as envisioned in
the manager's plan of execution. This may include technical personnel such as cost engineers, an
accountant/office manager and field superintendents. However, the construction manager should utilize to
the fullest extent, staff of the MOET, including engineers, book keepers, secretaries, field survey, etc., all
of whom will be made available to the manager by MOET at no cost.
17.   MOET will make available its equipment yard in Dikhil for contract headquarters for the
construction manager and supervising engineer. The supervision engineer must establish headquarters in
Dikhil and may utilize existing facilities which will be- repaired and upgraded for the use of both the CM
and supervising engineer. The need for additional facilities in other locations will be determined and
provided by the supervision engineer.
18.   At Dikhil, the CM shall be responsible for providing furnished office and residential
accommodation (e.g. pre-fabricated buildings, porta-cabins) and arranging supporting infrastructur
facilities (water, electricity, sewage, etc), office equipment (computers, photocopiers, fax, e-mail, etc) and
transportation.
110



19.   The use of existing laboratory facilities, field test devices and testing equipment will be available
at established rates. All such costs will be reimbursable. If the supervisor finds that the testing needs
cannot be satisfied by existing local capacity, the supervisor shall determine additional project needs,
which will be provided from other sources. The manager shall purchase such necessary items, which will
be cost reimbursable.
20.   The manager will provide his office furniture and supplies, computer systems, telephones, faxes,
and e-mail access. These will be cost reimbursable expenses.
21.   The manager will furnish six vehicles to the project, three for the manager's use and three for the
supervisor's use. One will be a Land Cruiser and five will be double cabin pickup trucks. These will be
cost reimbursable expenses. All other transportation requirements of the manager will be to his account.
At the end of the manager's and supervisor's contracts, the vehicles will become the property of the new
roads administration.
H.  REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS
22.   The manager shall furnish to MOET the following reports and documents:
(a)    Monthly Progress Reports with photographs (5 copies in French and 2 copies in English)
commencing at the end of the month following the date of the agreement signed between
the manager and MOET for construction of works, and ending at the end of the month of
the starting date of the contractual warranty period;
(b)    Completion Report with photographs (10 copies in French and 2 copies in English) at the
time of the final completion of the works (Final Completion Certificate issued at the end
of contractual warranty period ); and
(c)    At the completion of the project, one video tape of the progress of the work also will be
provided.
23.   After the completion of the works, the construction manager shall be on site an additional three
months to ensure that the force account unit has properly assumed control of the three year maintenance
obligations.
24.   Any reports, documents, drawings, and in general, any available information related to the design
and execution of the works shall be made available by MOET to the construction manager.
25.   All documentation related to the works is, and will remain after completion of works, MOET's
property. The construction manager can not use or dispose of this documentation without previous
consent.
I.  ESTIMATED MANPOWER
26.   A preliminary estimate of required construction manager's manpower (16mm Construction
Manager, 13mm General Superintendent, and 16mm Force Account Manager ) amounts to 45 mm. The
construction manager should provide an estimate of actual manpower required and additional costs not set
forth in this TOR.
111



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION WORKS
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Djibouti (GD) has requested assistance from the International Development
Association (IDA), for a program of emergency road repair of some sections of the national road to
Ethiopia via Galafi. The Ministry of Transport (MET) will be responsible for the works to be carried out
by contractors selected through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, works and goods
contracts and some use of MET plant, equipment and personnel. The works and goods contracts will be
supervised for quality assurance and contractual compliance by international supervisors under contract to
MET.
B.  SCOPE OF WORKS
2.    The works to be carried out include emergency repairs to some 100 km of the Dikhil - Galafi
road to the Ethiopian border, and emergency repairs and maintenance works to the 88 km Arta turnoff to
Dikhil section. The repair works consist of reconstruction of damaged and deteriorated sub-bases and
base courses, placement of a double layer of surface treatment, repair of minor drainage structures and
concrete drifts, shoulder and slope works and pothole repairs. Maintenance works on the entire Djibouti-
Galafi road will be initiated under this project.
3.    The implementation period of the repair works will be approximately 9 months with substantial
completion scheduled within the first 7 months. The defects liability period will be 12 months after
completion of the works with a maintenance period extending for a further 24 months.
C.    OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE ASSIGNMENT
4.    On behalf of the GD, the MET proposes to invite technical and financial proposals from short
listed consultants to provide pre-construction and construction supervision services. The scope of the
services will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
(a)    verification, adjustment where necessary, and assumption of responsibility for the
following items prepared previously by specialist consultants:
-     an outline pavement design(s) to bituminous standard and typical cross-sections
for the rehabilitation of the road to carry the projected traffic for a relatively
short life span of 5 years; and
-     the scope of repairs of minor drainage structures along the road consisting
of concrete box culverts and Irish crossings.
(b)    supervising the works contracts on behalf of the client with regard to quality assurance
and contractual compliance including, but not necessarily limited to, the following
activities:
-      supervising the construction works contracts to ensure that contractual clauses,
whether related to quality or quantities of work, are respected;
112



-     undertaking the necessary quality control of works,
-     making all engineering decisions-including improvement of designs, if
necessary-required for the good implementation of the contract;
-     making amendments to or extensions of the sources of materials identified
previously by the specialist consultants to meet the necessary production targets.
5.    The supervision team would be proposed by the consultants on the basis of the contracts'
characteristics and construction periods and would include at least a Chief Supervision Engineer and one
Supervision Engineer. The personnel proposed to be used by the consultants will require to have
extensive experience of road construction supervision as well as a sound knowledge of materials testing
and utilization in pavements as well as thorough familiarity of quality control procedures in environments
similar to that prevailing in the project area. The consultant will indicate the number of GD support staff
required for the project (surveyors, soils technicians, inspectors, etc).
D.    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SUPERVISION CONSULTANT
6.    The duties and responsibilities of the Chief Supervision Engineer will include, but not necessarily
be limited to, the following:
(a)   supervising the civil works contracts, approve the materials and quality of the works in
accordance with the Contract;
(b)    providing support to the archaeologist from ISERST for undertaking on-site work during
major earth moving and materials collecting activities;
(c)    providing support to MET and ISERST in implementation of archaeological "chance
find" procedures
(d)    ensuring compliance with the various mitigation measures and monitoring actions
contained in the Environmental Management Plan;
(e)   reviewing the Contractor's Program of Work and verifying and approving the source of
materials;
(f)    approving the Contractor's working drawings including variations thereof;
(g)    approving the setting out of the works and give instructions to the Contractor in this
regard;
(h)    ordering tests of materials and completed works and ordering the removal of improper or
substandard works;
(i)    ensuring that traffic operational safety is adequate before commencing the works and
issuing any work plan or drawing in that respect;
(j)   inspecting the works during the maintenance period, and issuing the maintenance
certificate in consultation with client;
(k)    with the prior approval of the client:
7.    The main responsibilities of the Supervision Engineers will include, but not necessarily be limited
to, the following:
113



(a)   inspecting the performance of works in compliance with specifications;
(b)    ordering, supervising or performing tests on materials and approving or disapproving the
contractor's plant and equipment; and
(c)   supervising the contractor in all matters concerning safety and care of the works, and
directing operations in case of an emergency situation affecting the safety of life, of the
works, or adjoining property.
E.    OBLIGATIONS OF THE CLIENT
8.    Any reports, documents, drawings, and in general, any available information related to the design
and execution of the works shall be made available by the Client to the Consultant.
9.    A Project Director has been appointed by the Client to liase with the supervision consultants, the
Construction Management Consultant and client bodies on all matters related to the execution of the
works.
10.   The MET will make available its equipment yard in Dikhil as site for the project headquarters for
the construction manager and supervising engineers. The need for additional facilities in other locations
will be determined and provided by the supervision engineer.
11.   Laboratory facilities and field and laboratory testing equipment will be provided by the CM.
F.    OBLIGATIONS OF THE SUPERVISION CONSULTANT
12.   All documentation related to the works is, and will remain after completion of works, the Client's
property. The Supervision Engineers can not use or dispose of this documentation without previous
consent.
13.   The Supervision Engineer shall carry out at least three inspection visits during the one-year
Defects Liability contractual period to be established for the maintenance of works after completion.
G.  REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS
14.   The Supervision Engineer shall furnish to client with the following reporting and documents in
English and French:
(a)    Provide sections for the Construction Management Consultant's monthly Progress
Reports relating to the quality control aspects, the date of the agreement signed between
the Contractor and client for construction of works, and ending at the end of the month in
which the issue of the provisional completion certificate, i.e. the starting date of the one-
year contractual maintenance period, takes place; and
(b)    At the time of the final completion of the works, provide sections for the Construction
Management Consultant's completion report as appropriate.
114



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREPARA TION OFPA VEMENT DESIGN CONCEPTS
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    Djibouti currently serves as the primary transit port for landlocked Ethiopia following the
outbreak of armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998. Assab, on the Eritrean coast, formerly
played this role, but with the sudden shift in 1998 of traffic from Assab Port to Djibouti Port, the 20 year
old road connection between Djibouti Port and the Addis-Assab Road (via Dikhil and Galafi, see attached
map) was suddenly required to carry a level of heavy-vehicle traffic it was neither designed for nor in a
condition to carry. The lack of regular maintenance within Djibouti has contributed to the accelerated
deterioration of this 188 km road section, which originally had a double surface dressing over a natural
gravel base/sub-base. Portions of the road are presently disintegrating, posing a risk of complete failure
on long sections. On the 102 km section closest to the border, all bituminous surfacing has either been
destroyed by traffic or scarified to improve rideability, and the road is kept passable by occasional
grading. On the 86 km road section closest to Djibouti city (Arta turnoff to Dikhil) about 18 km has
recently been repaired by a local contractor. However, this work is very short term and already requires
maintenance repairs. The rest, partly in a state of rapid deterioration, is causing accidents and is slowing
down truck traffic significantly. Maintaining this 188 km road link is critical to Djibouti Port's ability to
serve the Ethiopian traffic, and remain competitive in the long-run.
2.    Recently the Djibouti Government requested the International Development Association (IDA) to
assist in financing limited, but adequate, rehabilitation of the road pavement as well as emergency repairs
to drainage structures, and to ensure that the 188 km road section will be well maintained thereafter. The
objective of this rehabilitation project is to secure unhampered and continued road access between
Djibouti Port and Ethiopia for the next five years, and thereby guarantee that the existing lifeline to
Addis-Ababa -- through which crucial Ethiopian agricultural imports (e.g. fertilizers), as well as
international famine-relief shipments must pass -- remains functional. During this 5-year period an Addis
Ababa-Djibouti City long-term corridor improvement scheme is being developed, assessed, and
implemented by the Ethiopian and Djibouti governments with assistance from the European Union which
is expected to provide the long term improvements to the corridor. However, during this period, it is clear
that the Djibouti-Galafi road cannot remain in its present deteriorated state without doing serious harm to
the economies of both Djibouti and Ethiopia.
3.    The Ministry of Equipment and Transport is responsible for the national road network. As part of
an effort in 'fast-tracking' the implementation of the IDA-supported pavement rehabilitation project, the
services of a highly experienced agency/firm would be required to assist in the preparation of pavement
rehabilitation design concepts for the two sections on either side of the Dikhil township. The World Bank
has secured grant funds from the Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (PHRD) for
this purpose.
B.    OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSIGNMENT
4.    The emergency nature of this assignment requires the selected agency/firm to respond quickly in
preparing proposals for providing the services, as well as to mobilize the team to carry out the services as
a matter of urgency. The overall objective is to prepare concept designs of the necessary rehabilitation
work sufficient to be able to prepare typical tender documents for some or all of the works while the
Government goes through a normal selection process to procure the services of a supervision consultant
115



to verify, adjust and take responsibility for the design and subsequent implementation of works. This
would save valuable time. The services described below should ideally commence on approximately l't
May 2000 and have to be completed as soon as possible, and no later than 30' June 2000.
5.     Against the background context of the project setting outlined above, the detailed objectives of
the assignment are to:
(a)    Produce appropriate outline pavement design(s) and typical cross-sections for the
rehabilitation of the road to carry the projected traffic for a relatively short life span of 5
years;
(b)    Provide alternative, feasible pavement designs to a bituminous surfacing standard which
would be adequate for the relatively short life span of 5-6 years for the rehabilitation
works and which would serve substantially as an intermediate component of the longer
term corridor improvement scheme;
(c)    Assess the sources of suitable materials (particularly aggregates and water) to meet
production targets that would facilitate implementation in a short time as practically
possible, given all constraints locally;
(d)    Assess the scope of temporary repairs of minor drainage structures along the road
consisting of concrete box culverts and Irish crossings; and
(e)    Work with the contracts specialist (procured separately), providing technical input in the
process of preparing bidding documents.
C.  SCOPE OF WORKS
6.     The services of a soils/materials/pavement specialist are required to assist the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport in implementing the emergency
rehabilitation works. Information on the road at the time of its construction in 1976 in terms of soils and
materials investigations and laboratory test results, cross-sections, pavement design, longitudinal plans
and profiles, geometric information, bills of quantities, cost estimates, etc are all available and will
provide a valuable source of background informnation to the specialist. With reference to the background
information already available on the road, the anticipated scope of work shall include, but not necessarily
be limited, to the following:
(a)    Produce alternative, feasible pavement designs and typical cross-sections for the
rehabilitation of the road to a bituminous surfacing standard that would be adequate to
carry the projected traffic for a relatively short life span of 5-6 years and would also
serve substantially as a component of the longer term corridor improvement scheme;
(b)    Locate suitable materials (particularly aggregates and water) in sufficient quantities along
the project corridor for use in the works;
(c)    Produce appropriate specifications for the materials proposed for use in works and for the
installation requirements;
(d)    Produce a Bill of Quantities for the entire length of the road based on the typical cross
sections;
(e)    Produce cost estimates for the works;
(f)    Produce drawings which, as a minimum, shall include typical road cross sections
116



showing limits, character and dimensions of the repaired roadway. Original plans of road
alignment and profile and details of standard construction features shall be reproduced for
inclusion in this contract by the PIU, if available;
(g)    Liaise with hydrology specialists undertaking work for the European Union-financed pre-
feasibility study of the transport corridor, to both assess the scope of temporary repairs of
minor drainage structures along the road consisting of concrete box culverts and Irish
crossings, and recommend earth borrowing procedures which are the least disruptive to
natural water flows. Liaise with the contracts specialist as required in obtaining water
information through the procurement of equipment, test devices or other resources.
Procurement of these services will be a reimbursable cost to the consultant to a maximum
limit of US$10,000.00; and
(h)    Liaise with the contracts specialist to ensure that the works requirements (specifications,
quantities, drawings, etc) are fully accounted for in the contract documents.
7.     Qualifications and Experience. The candidates (two) must hold at least a MSc degree related to
soils/materials/pavements with at least twenty years of experience, at least 10 of which should be in
environments similar to that prevailing in the project environment in Djibouti.
D.    GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE ASSIGNMENT
8.    During the currency of the assignment:
(a)   the consultant shall:
(i)    determine the other technical services required to ensure timely completion of its
work;
(ii)   provide those services including, but not limited to, field surveys, laboratory and
field testing. Such services will be cost reimbursable to the consultants upon
receipt of invoices submitted by the consultants to a maximum limit of
US$10,000.00;
(iii)   perform the assignment in offices provided at no cost by the Roads Department
and shall keep the Roads Department informed of the progress on the
assignment;
(iv)   be responsible for local transport, accommodation, computers, local and
intemational calls and photo copying and printing; and
(v)    either be able to communicate with the PIU staff in French or have the services
of a French language interpreter, whose cost will be the consultants
responsibility.
E.    OUTPUTS OF THE ASSIGNMENT
9.    Interim Report: One month after the commencement of the assignment, the consultant shall
furnish the PIU with an interim report, indicating:
117



(a)  proposed technical solutions to the road rehabilitation and the basis thereof;
(b)  typical cross-sections and limits of the sections;
(c) preliminary conclusions on the sources, quality and quantity of water and
aggregates; and
(d)  preliminary estimates of cost of the rehabilitation works.
10.   The interim report will, in effect, be a status report of the interim conclusions of the assignment
and is intended as a status report for the information of the PIU. It is anticipated that the PIU will provide
comments leading to approval of this report within 4 days of receipt from the consultant.
11.   The interim report will be produced on computer diskette in both English and French. Five hard
copies will be produced in French and two copies in English.
12.   Final Report: Within two months after the commencement of the assignment, the consultant
shall furnish the PIU with a final report. It will include final conclusions and recommendations for all
issues covered in the interim report.
13.   The final report will be produced on diskette in French and English. In addition, five hard copies
will be produced in French and two in English. Drawings and plans will be provided in electronic or hard
copy format for bidding purposes.
G.    PAYMENTS
14.   This assignment is funded by the Japanese Government through a PHRD grant to be made
available to Djibouti and to be administered by the World Bank. The World Bank has been authorized by
the Djibouti Government to act as the implementing agency for this assignment to speed up the execution
of services and, consequently, the selection process, contract negotiation and award. Contractual
payments will be the responsibility of the World Bank. However, the firm or agency selected for this
assignment has to carry out the services in close collaboration with the PIU staff as the actual client of the
services.
15.   The lump sum contract amount will be paid as follows:
* 20% down payment upon contract signature
* 30% payment upon submittal of interim reports
* 30% payment upon submittal of the final report and documents
* 20% payment upon approval of final reports and documents the Roads Department.
H.  COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
16.   The assignment will commence around June 15 2000 and will have a duration of no more than 6
- 8 weeks.
118



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREPARA TION OF TYPICAL BIDDING DOCUMENTS
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    Djibouti currently serves as the primary transit port for landlocked Ethiopia following the
outbreak of armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998. Assab, on the Eritrean coast, formnerly
played this role, but with the sudden shift in 1998 of traffic from Assab Port to Djibouti Port, the 20 year
old road connection between Djibouti Port and the Addis-Assab Road (via Dikhil and Galafi, see attached
map) was suddenly required to carry a level of heavy-vehicle traffic it was neither designed for nor in a
condition to carry. The lack of regular maintenance within Djibouti has contributed to the accelerated
deterioration of this 188 km road section, which originally had a double surface dressing over a natural
gravel base/sub-base. Portions of the road are presently disintegrating, posing a risk of complete failure
on long sections. On the 102 km section closest to the border, all bituminous surfacing has either been
destroyed by traffic or scarified to improve rideability, and the road is kept passable by occasional
grading. On the 86 km road section closest to Djibouti city (Arta turnoff to Dikhil) about 18 km has
recently been repaired by a local contractor. However, this work is very short term and already requires
maintenance repairs. The rest, partly in a state of rapid deterioration, is causing accidents and is slowing
down truck traffic significantly. Maintaining this 188 km road link is critical to Djibouti Port's ability to
serve the Ethiopian traffic, and remain competitive in the long-run.
2.    Recently the Djibouti Government requested the International Development Association (IDA) to
assist in financing limited, but adequate, rehabilitation of the road pavement as well as emergency repairs
to drainage structures, and to ensure that the 188 km road section will be well maintained thereafter. The
objective of this rehabilitation project is to secure unhampered and continued road access between
Djibouti Port and Ethiopia for the next five years, and thereby guarantee that the existing lifeline to
Addis-Ababa -- through which crucial Ethiopian agricultural imports (e.g. fertilizers), as well as
international famine-relief shipments must pass -- remains functional. During this 5-year period an Addis
Ababa-Djibouti City long-term corridor improvement scheme is being developed, assessed, and
implemented by the Ethiopian and Djibouti governments with assistance from the European Union which
is expected to provide the long term improvements to the corridor. However, during this period, it is clear
that the Djibouti-Galafi road cannot remain in its present deteriorated state without doing serious harm to
the economies of both Djibouti and Ethiopia.
3.    The Ministry of Equipment and Transport is responsible for the national road network. As part of
an effort in 'fast-tracking' the implementation of the IDA-supported pavement rehabilitation project, the
services of a highly experienced individual would be required to assist in the preparation of typical
bidding documents for the two sections on either side of the Dikhil township. The World Bank has
secured grant funds from the Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (PHRD) for this
purpose.
B.    OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSIGNMENT
4.    The emergency nature of this assignment requires the selected agency/firm to respond quickly in
preparing proposals for providing the services, as well as to mobilize the team to carry out the services as
a matter of urgency. The overall objective is to prepare concept designs of the necessary rehabilitation
work sufficient to be able to prepare typical tender documents for some or all of the works while the
Government goes through a normal selection process to procure the services of a Construction Manager
119



to verify, adjust and take responsibility for the design, bidding documents and subsequent implementation
of works. This would save valuable time. The services described below should ideally commence on
approximately June 15, 2000, or earlier, and have to be completed as soon as possible, and no later than
July 31, 2000. The Contract Specialist will have to work closely with the consultant preparing typical
pavement designs and identifying materials sources (TRL).
5.     Against the background context of the project setting outlined above, the primary objective of the
assignment is to prepare typical bidding documents to facilitate an urgent completion of the works as well
as a proposed program for the execution of the works, including the number of works and goods contracts
and force account operations as appropriate.
C.  SCOPE OF WORKS
6.     A Contracts Specialist is required to assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Ministry
of Equipment and Transport. The scope of work shall include, but not necessarily be limited, to the
following:
(a)    Work with the materials specialist (from TRL) to prepare typical bid documents for the
works and goods contracts to be executed under the credit.
(b)    Coordinate and manage the production of technical provisions, contract provisions, bid
data sheets, special conditions of contract, bills of quantities, bid forms and plans
necessary to obtain informed offers by potential bidders.
(c)    Review the technical provisions produced by the soils/materials/pavement specialists and
verify for clarity, completeness and compatibility with all the provisions of the contract.
(d)    Assist the soils/materials/pavement specialists in the selection of various technical
solutions by providing relative cost comparisons for methods under consideration.
Capability of local and regional contractors will be an essential consideration in the
selection of solutions.
7.     With respect to the rest of the works documents, the contracts specialist shall:
(a)    Prepare a preliminary and simplified bill of quantities and unit price schedule for each
contract.
(b)    Prepare a bid data sheet.
(c)    Prepare any special conditions of the contract.
(d)    Prepare the contract data sheet.
(e)    Assemble all contract documents into bid packages for approval by the Construction
Manager.
(f)    Prepare bid notices.
(g)    Assist the PIU in preparing a list of national and regional contractors who will be invited
to submit bids for national competitive bidding (NCB) of works and goods contracts.
(h)    Assist the PIUJ in establishing the minimum requirements for contractors to qualify for
NCB.
(i)    Assist the PIU in selecting the construction manager and supervision engineer (evaluation
of tender documents), quality control, supervision and training services for the project.
This part of the assignment will take place between July 10 and 31, 2000.
120



8.    Qualifications And Experience. The candidate must hold at least a BSc degree in Civil
Engineering with at least twenty years experience as a road construction supervisor or experience as a
contractor in the road construction industry. The candidate must demonstrate relevant experience in
working in French-speaking environments similar to Djibouti of at least five years. The candidate must
also have experience in preparation of detailed cost estimates based on productivities and actual project
conditions, and experience in preparing bid packages for road projects.
D.    GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE ASSIGNMENT
9.    During the currency of the assignment the consultant shall:
(a)    perform the assignment in offices provided at no cost by the PITU and shall keep
the PIU Director informed of the progress on the assignment;
(b)    be responsible for local transport, accommodation, computers, local and
international calls, photocopying and printing; and
(c)    be able to communicate with the PIU staff in French.
E.    OUTPUTS OF THE ASSIGNMENT
10.   Interim Report: One month after the commencement of the assignment, the consultant shall
furnish the PIU with an interim report, indicating a proposed program for execution of the number of
works and goods contracts as appropriate, with appropriate preliminary estimates of costs.
11.   The interim report will, in effect, be a status report of the interim conclusions of the assignment
and is intended as a status report for the information of the PIU. It is anticipated that the Roads
Department will provide comments leading to approval of this report within 4 days of receipt from the
consultant.
12.   The interim report will be produced on computer diskette in both English and French. Five hard
copies will be produced in French for the PIU and two copies in English to be sent to the World Bank.
13.   Final Report: Within two months after the commencement of the assignment, the consultant
shall furnish the PIU with a final report. It will include final conclusions and recommendations for all
issues covered in the interim report.
14.   The final report will be produced on diskette in French and English. In addition, five hard copies
will be produced in French and two in English for distribution as under para 12. Typical bidding
documents, drawings and plans will be provided in electronic or hard copy format for bidding purposes.
F.    BID DOCUMENTS
15.   Along with the final report, the consultant shall furnish typical bid documents conforming to
World Bank procurement guidelines for the goods and works contracts prepared by the consultants. The
standardized bid documents will be produced on diskette in French and English. In addition, one hard
copy of each set of bid documents will be produced in French and one copy in English.
121



G.    PAYMENTS
16.   This assignment is funded by the Japanese Government through a PHRD grant to be made
available to Djibouti and to be administered by the World Bank. The World Bank has been authorized by
the Djibouti Government to act as the implementing agency for this assignment to speed up the execution
of services and, consequently, the selection process, contract negotiation and award. Contractual
payments will be the responsibility of the World Bank. However, the firm or agency selected for this
assignment has to carry out the services in close collaboration with the Roads Department staff as the
actual client of the services.
17.   The lump sum contract amount will be paid as follows:
* 20% down payment upon contract signature
* 30% payment upon submittal of interim reports
* 30% payment upon submittal of the final report and documents
* 20% payment upon approval of final reports and documents the Roads Department.
H.  COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
18.   The assignment will commence around June 15, 2000 and will have a duration of no more than
6- 8 weeks.
122



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREPARA TION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS FOR SPARE PARTS
Terms of Reference
1.    The World Bank is preparing an emergency national road repair project for Djibouti and is
considering the use of Ministry owned equipment in the implementation of part of the project. As a
consequence, the Bank must know the cost to repair that part of the equipment fleet that is in good
condition, or can be made operable without complete overhaul or replacing all major systems. The
consultant will perform the consultancy in two phases:
2.    Prior to coming to Djibouti, the equipment specialist will review the list of Ministry owned
equipment in his home office and furnish the Government and the World Bank with an itemization of
repairs, and budget cost of repairs of usable equipment. With the exception of a few pieces, personnel
vehicles will not be included under this consultancy. The specialist's conclusions shall be furnished, in the
English and French language, to the Bank appraisal mission in Djibouti no later than May 31, 2000.
3.    The second phase will require the specialist to spend about three weeks in Djibouti. The
equipment specialist shall be on site approximately June 15, 2000, but in any event no later than fifteen
days after the commencement of the activities of the pavement and contracts specialists . The equipment
specialist shall liaise with these specialists, who will identify the equipment needed to complete parts of
the project on a force account basis.
4.    The equipment specialist next will inspect the fleet of equipment and select the best pieces for use
on the project. The specialist shall prepare an updated list of repairs and parts required to bring that, and
all the usable equipment, up to a level of good operating condition, and shall provide an updated cost
estimate. The specialist next shall prepare international shopping packages by category of parts, and/or
likely vendors of groups of parts, for the equipment intended for use on the project.
5.    The equipment specialist shall prepare a list setting forth the estimated salvage value of the
remaining equipment. That equipment may disposed of, if agreed by the client and the World Bank.
6.    Prior to completing the assignment (approximately July 31, 2000), the specialist shall prepare a
report, in the English and French languages, outlining recommendations and conclusions with respect to
the Ministry owned equipment in Djibouti.
123



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF
TRADE RELA TEDSERVICES
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    The Port of Dj ibouti and the transport of goods from the port to its hinterland are, with the
possible exception of official development assistance, the mainstays of the economy of Djibouti. Its
strategic location on the Red Sea's international shipping routes, as well as in relation to its East African
neighbors, potentially make Djibouti an excellent entrepot for the region. For various reasons related to
geo-politics and infrastructure deficiencies, this potential has barely begun to be tapped. With
unemployment rates reportedly as high as 60 percent, development of the trade and transport sectors,
which could generate considerable employment in the local economy, is clearly a high priority for the
Government.
2.    Up until less than two years ago, the Port of Djibouti was the primary transshipment location for
international trade in the area. However, recent developments of new ports in the region have tended to
reduce Djibouti's role in the transshipment of international trade cargoes. In early 1998, the ports of Aden
in Yemen and Salalah in Oman opened large, modern, deepwater facilities, and major shipping lines are
now beginning to shift their transshipment business from Djibouti to those ports. Fortunately, this drop in
transshipment traffic was compensated by a shift of Ethiopian traffic in May 1998, from Assab Port in
Eritrea to Djibouti due to a further deterioration in relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
Simultaneously, officials at the Port of Djibouti recognized the future strategic importance of Djibouti as
a transit center for goods destined for countries in the Horn of Africa and the need to focus on the transit
rather than the transshipment market. As a result, traffic overall at Djibouti has increased significantly
from 1.7 million tons in 1997 to over 4 million tons in 1998. The new traffic mix being arguably more
lucrative for the country, since it is likely to provide greater employment opportunities for the local
population. While Ethiopia will look to diversify its trade links to the outside world, Djibouti is likely to
remain the predominant port for Ethiopian goods in the near future. For the Djibouti government to
protect that predominant market share, it will need to ensure the quality of the entire logistics system in
the long run, from dockside to the Ethiopian border.
3.    Transport Corridor Development. Long term options for the development of the Djibouti-
Addis corridor are currently under review by various assistance agencies, including the Agence Francaise
and the European Union. There are several corridor development strategies being considered. One is to
upgrade the existing rail connection, the Chemin de Fer Djibouti - Ethiopian (CDE) between Djibouti
Port and Addis Ababa via the Ethiopian town of Dire Dawa. Since most of the traffic is either
containerizable (most already arrives at the port containerized) or is dry or liquid bulk traffic, and the
origin-destination is of a point-to-point nature (Port to Addis), rail seems to be a reasonable option. A
second option is to construct a high quality road link along the same route as the rail link -- via Ali Sabieh
in Djibouti and Dire Dawa. Finally, the existing route, via Dikhil and Galafi, could be substantially
upgraded and re-built. Whatever strategy is adopted, the corridor development program requires a clearly
specified and phased set of transport development actions. These should encompass both physical
infrastructure and institutional development spanning the port, road, trucking and rail sectors. The
program must be integrated with the transportation planning of all the affected countries in the region,
ensuring that important aspects of transport policy, such as regulations (e.g. axle load limnits, through bills
of lading, etc.) are harmonized. Presently, there is a joint committee established between Djibouti and
124



Ethiopia for this purpose, and it is critical that the Bank and other multi- and bi-lateral aid agencies
support this close cooperation with a coordinated strategy.
4.    The long-term development of a Djibouti-Addis corridor is an important component in the
development of the Djiboutian economy. It would provide Djiboutians with a sustainable development
path focussing on a wide range of employment opportunities from port and rail services, trucking and
freight forwarding, to banking, hotel and entertainment services. This ToR sets out the scope of work, to
be financed under an IDA Credit (the Djibouti - International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project), for
technical assistance to the Government of Djibouti (GD) in the area of trade related services.
B.    OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSIGNMENT
5.    This technical assistance is to prepare an Action Plan for the Development of Djibouti's Trade
Related Services covering the shipping, ship agency, trucking, freight-forwarding, banking, hotel and
entertainment industries in order to enhance the value added services provided to transit traffic between
the Port of Djibouti and its east-African neighbors, and thereby maximize local employment opportunities
related to this traffic.
C.  SCOPE OF WORK
6.    Specifically, the work to be carried out under this assignment will include the following:
(a)   review of the present industry structure, finances, quality/coverage of services, and
employment in the shipping, ship agency, freight-forwarding, trucking, banking, hotel
and entertainment industries;
(b)    analyze key components of transit traffic by commodity type, origin-destination,
ownership and parcel sizes, and assess the efficiency of transit with respect to
costs/delays to cargo within Djibouti;
(c)   identify critical constraints to improved services in each of the industries under
consideration and recommend a program of actions covering regulatory reforms, training
of personnel, and development of necessary institutional arrangements; and
(d)    examine key constraints to private sector investment and expansion in each of the
industries under consideration and recommend on needed incentives/relief which the
Government may provide to stimulate private participation in the transit industry.
125



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
A UDIT OF PROJECT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,
SPECIAL ACCOUNT AND ACCOMPANYING SOEs
Terms of Reference
A.    OBJECTIVE
1.    The objective of the audit of the Project Financial Statement (PFS) is to enable the auditor to
express a professional opinion on the financial position of the International Road Corridor Rehabilitation
Project at the end of each fiscal year, and of the funds received and expenditures for each accounting
period as reported by the PFS, as well as an opinion on the Statement of Expenditures.
2.    The project accounts (books of account) provide the basis for preparation of the PFS and are
established to reflect the financial transactions in respect of the project, as maintained by the project
implementing agency.
B.    SCOPE
3.    The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing, and will
include such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. In conducting
the audit, special attention should be paid to the following:
(a)     All external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant
financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the
purposes for which the financing was provided. Relevant financing agreements are
detailed in the Project's Credit Agreement;
(b)     Counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for
which they were provided;
(c)     Goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant
financing agreement;
(d)     All necessary supporting documents, records, and accounts have been kept in respect of
all project ventures, including expenditures reported via SOEs or SAs. Clear linkages
should exist between the books of account and reports presented to the Bank;
(e)     Where Special Accounts have been used, they have been maintained in accordance with
the provisions of the relevant financing agreement; and
(f)     Project accounts have been prepared in accordance with consistently applied International
Accounting Standards and give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the
project at the end of each fiscal year, and of resources and expenditures for the year
ended on that date.
126



C.     PROJECT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4.    The Project Financial Statements should include:
(a)    a Summary of Funds received, showing the World Bank, project funds from other donors,
and counterpart funds separately;
(b)    a Summary of Expenditures shown under the main project headings and by main
categories of expenditures, both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; and
(c)    a Balance Sheet showing Accumulated Funds of the Project, bank balances, other assets
of the project, and liabilities, if any.
5.    As an annex to the Project Financial Statements, the auditor should prepare a reconciliation
between the amounts shown as "received by the project from the World Bank" and that shown as being
disbursed by the Bank. As part of that reconciliation, the auditor should indicate the mechanism for the
disbursement, i.e. Special Accounts, Statements of Expenditures, or direct reimbursement.
D.    STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURES
6.    In addition to the audit of the PFS, the auditor is required to audit all SOEs used as the basis for
the submission of withdrawal applications. The auditor should apply such tests and controls as the
auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. These expenditures should be carefully compared
for project eligibility with the relevant financing agreements, and with reference to the Project Appraisal
Document for guidance when considered necessary. Where ineligible expenditures are identified as
having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed against, these should be separately noted
by the auditor. Annexed to the Project Financial Statements should be a schedule listing individual SOE
withdrawal applications by specific reference number and amount. Total withdrawals under the SOE
procedure should be part of the overall reconciliation of Bank disbursements described above.
E.    SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
7.    In conjunction with the audit of the Project Financial Statements, the auditor is also required to
audit the activities of the Special Accounts associated with the Project. Special Accounts usually
comprise:
(a)    deposits and replenishments received from the Bank;
(b)    payments substantiated by withdrawal applications;
(c)   interest that may be earned from the balances and which belong to the borrower; and
(d)   the remaining balances at the end of each fiscal year.
8.    The auditor must form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Bank's procedures and
the balance of the Special Account at year-end. The audit should examine the eligibility and correctness
of financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at the end of such a period, the
operation and use of the SA in accordance with the financing agreement, and the adequacy of internal
controls for this type of disbursement mechanism.
127



F.   AUDIT OPINION
9.    Besides a primary opinion on the Project Financial Statements, the annual audit report of the
Project Accounts should also include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of
expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures, and the extent to which the Bank can rely on SOEs as a
basis for loan disbursement. The financial statements, including the audit report, should be received by
the Bank no later than six months after the end of the accounting period to which the audit refers. The
auditor should submit the report to the borrower's designated agent rather than to any staff member of the
project entity. The agent should then promptly forward two copies of the audited accounts and report to
the Bank.
G.  MANAGEMENT LETTER
10.   In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which the
auditor will:
(a)    Give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that
were examined during the course of the audit;
(b)    Identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and controls and make
recommendations for their improvement;
(c)    Report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
agreement and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such
compliance;
(d)    Communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a
significant impact on project implementation; and
(e)    Bring to the borrower's attention any other matters that the auditor considers pertinent.
Due to accelerated expenditures in the project's first year, the auditor will submit a management
letter regarding the P1U' s operations no later than six months after Credit Effectiveness. This will help to
ensure that the PIU's internal controls and operating procedures are satisfactory.
H.    GENERAL
11.   The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also
be obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Bank. Bank Task Managers can assist in
obtaining these confirmations.
12.   It is highly desirable that the auditor become familiar with a copy of the Bank's Guidelines on
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank, which summarizes the Banks
financial reporting and auditing requirements. The auditor should also be familiar with the Bank's
Disbursement Manual. Both documents will be provided by the Task Manager.
128



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTABLISHING A FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND PROCEDURES AT THE PIU
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    Djibouti currently serves as the primary transit port for landlocked Ethiopia following the
outbreak of armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1998. Assab, on the Eritrean coast, formerly
assumed this role, but with the sudden shift in 1998 of traffic from Assab to Djibouti Port, the 20-year old
road connection between Djibouti Port and the Addis-Assab Road (via Dikhil and Galafi) was suddenly
required to carry a level of heavy-vehicle traffic it was neither designed for nor in condition to carry.
Portions of the road are presently disintegrating, posing a risk to complete failure on long sections.
2.    The Government of Djibouti (GD) has requested assistance from the International Development
Association (IDA) for a program of emergency road repair of some sections of the national road to
Ethiopia. The objective of this rehabilitation project is to secure unhampered and continued road access
between Djibouti Port and Ethiopia for the next five years. During this five-year period, an Addis Ababa-
Djibouti City long-term corridor improvement scheme is being developed, assessed, and implemented by
the Ethiopian and Djibouti governments with assistance forn the European Union, which is expected to
provide long-term improvements to the corridor.
3.    The IDA project will be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which will be
established within the Ministry of Equipment and Transport. In addition to managing the Project, this
Unit will be in charge of project financial management, including management of all financial
transactions, accounting and reporting activities. The Unit will also manage a Special Account. The PIU
will include financial staff headed by a Accountant reporting to the PITJ's Director General. The
Accountant will launch, with the help of an external consultant, project financial management systems
and procedures which will ensure compliance with Bank guidelines and the timely production of reliable
accounting information on project-related expenditures.
B.    OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSIGNMENT
4.    The objective of the assignment is to design and assist the PIU in establishing a financial control
and accounting system which are in accordance with IDA guidelines (see OP/BP10.02). The system
should reliably record the project's financial operations and activities, produce financial statements and
reports in a timely fashion, and safeguard project assets and resources.
C.  SCOPE OF WORK
5.    The Consultant will work with PIU personnel to develop and implement a project financial
management system on a fast track basis so that the system is operational no later than Credit
Effectiveness (July 31, 2000). As an interim measure, and to avoid delaying Credit Effectiveness, the
project will utilize a manual accounting system, internal control mechanisms and documented operational
policies and procedures as detailed in the following sections. The Consultant must be fluent in French,
and be willing to spend up to one month (continuous) in Djibouti. It is preferable, but not required, that
the Consultant also speaks English.
129



Internal Controls
Internal controls should start with clearly written administrative, accounting and operational
procedures that define levels of authority and responsibilities, ensure an orderly and efficient payment and
procurement process, and properly record and safeguard project-related assets and resources. Specific
attention should be given to establishing:
*  a process to identify and track sources of project financing, including the flow
of funds and the timing of such flows (whether direct to the project or through
government entities);
*  a suitable authorization process for award of contracts and purchase of
equipment and supplies, including documentation procedures;
*  an appropriate segregation of duties and responsibilities, including invoice
processing, accounting duties, and payment functions;
i  design and help implement the use of standard forms for recording and
controlling all transactions;
*  produce an accounting policies and procedures manual in French which
addresses all aspects of financial management, including staffing arrangements
and responsibilities, the flow of funds, internal control procedures, the
accounting system, reporting formats and procedures, and storage of financial
documents; and
*  arrangements for storing project documents and restricting access to authorized
personnel only.
The PIU Director will review and approve all payments before sending the payment request to be
signed by the Minister of Finance or the Secretary General of the MOF. In additional, the PIU will
directly manage a Special Account to be opened at the Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie in US
dollars and will be maintained in US dollars only. Procedures to manage and sign on a Special Account
would be communicated and agreed with the Borrower in a disbursement letter to be issued by the Loan
Department.
Accounting System
The accounting system developed for the PIU should reflect project needs and be designed to
provide financial information to all interested parties, including the PIU, the Bank, cofinanciers and
oversight agencies. There should be a linkage between the cost categories used by the accounting
system and the inputs needed to carry out the project. As an interim measure, a manual accounting
system will be utilized until a computerized system is developed and operational, which is expected
about five months after Credit Effectiveness (December 31, 2000). The PIU' s Accountant will be
responsible for establishing the computerized system. The manual system will serve as the foundation
for developing the computerized system, and should:
provide information which is compatible with agreed accounting standards;
130



* permit the establishment of a Chart of Accounts which has a logical structure
for recording accounting transactions, is based on the project's budget, and has
the capacity to classify and sub-classify accounting data;
* facilitate the development of a budgeting system, including planned allocation
of resources, which would be coordinated with the financial accounts in order
to reconcile budget variances with financial figures;
.  summarize accounting balances by source (World Bank or counterpart),
category (works, goods or services), and project component;
* record individual transactions by vendor;
* allow for transfers and adjustments between accounts;
* assist the user to process and maintain Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); and
 provide financial data to measure project performance and create audit trails.
Accounting Standards
In the absence of superior national standards, the accounting standards used by the PIU should be
based on International Accounting Standards (LAS). The use of IAS standards helps to ensure consistent
recording of financial data and presentation of financial statements, and greatly facilitates interpretation of
the information presented.
Records Management
Generally, the management of records should provide a paper trail on which the accounting system
is based, and verification of financial transactions. For each financial transaction, an individual record
should be created. Records management should include:
* clearly defined procedures for creating and maintaining records;
* adequate backup procedures;
* the storage of physical financial records under lock and key and safe from
environmental risks (fire and water damage); and
* easy access for authorized personnel only.
Reporting
The financial management system should be capable of producing a full array of financial
statements and reports, including:
balance sheets, sources and uses of funds, cash flow statements, and notes to
the financial statements; and
131



quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) as defined under the Cash
Model (see Annex 7, Project Financial Management Manual).
D.  SCHEDULE
6.    The PIU plans to appoint a project accountant no later than June 30, 2000. Once on board, the
accountant would work closely with the Consultant to develop and implement a financial management
system for the project according to the work plan on the following page. Prior to the accountant's
appointment, it is envisaged that the Consultant will begin developing the foundation of the financial
management system before traveling to Djibouti. The Consultant must be willing to spend up to one
month (continuous) in Djibouti beginning on or about June 30, 2000.
132



Work Plan for Establishing a Financial Management System and Procedures at the PIU
FMS Category j                  Action                               By                       Date
Staffing        1. Identify and appoint Consultant to begin   1. IDA                      June 10, 2000
establishing FMS with PIU Director.
2. Identify and appoint Accountant.    2. Project Director, PIU          June 30, 2000
Intemal         1. Establish internal control mechanisms  1. PIUAccountant/Consultant     July 31, 2000
Controls           and policies/procedures (flow of funds,
approval process, segregation of duties,
SA procedures).                      2. PIU Accountant/Consultant      July 31, 2000
2. Develop manual of accounting policies
and procedures.
Manual          1. Establish COA.                        1. PIU Accountant/Consultant      July 15, 2000
Accounting      2. Establish manual accounting system.  2. PIU Accountant/Consultant       July 31, 2000
System          3. Format for financial reporting       3. PIU Accountant                August 31, 2000
established.
Computerized    1. Select and implement accounting      1. PIU Accountant                October 31, 2000
System and         software and purchase dedicated
Accounting         computer.
Software        2. Design COA to fit computerized       2. PIU Accountant               November 30, 2000
accounting system.
3. Enter data from manual system to    3. PIU Accountant               December 31, 2000
computerized system and test.
Auditing         1. Identify firms to undertake auditing  1. PIU Accountant/Consultant     July 1, 2000
Arrangements       function.
2. Appoint auditor.                    2. PIU Accountant/Consultant       July 31, 2000
Records          1. Designate and equip location for storing   1. PIU Accountant           July 31, 2000
Management         records.
2. Adequate backup procedures for       2. PIU Accountant              December 31,2000
computerized records. 
Reporting        1. Transitional PMRs (Cash Model - IA,  1. PIU Accountant               October 31, 2000
3A, 3B, 3C, 3D).
==_____________  2. Full PMRs (Cash Model).           2. PIU Accountant               December 31, 2001
133



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR THE ROAD SECTOR
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Djibouti (GD) has requested assistance from the World Bank, International
Development Association (IDA), to undertake the rehabilitation of the international road corridor between
Djibouti and Ethiopia. This Project (International Road Corridor Rehabilitation Project) includes a
number of components, one of which addresses various policy, institutional and human resource issues
related to the long-term sustainability of the roads sector.
2.    GD is aware of the need to improve the way in which the roads sector is managed and financed.
A Road Fund was set up in February 2000 but is not yet fully operational and various measures are still
required to be put in place for its effective functioning. In the meanwhile, virtually no maintenance is
being carried out by the Ministry of Equipment and Transport due to lack of funds and inadequate
institutional capacity.
3.    Whilst there is a recognition of the need to improve the way in which the roads sector is managed
and financed, the way forward needs to be carefully considered due to the particular characteristics of the
country which include:
*     a relatively small road network of less than 1200 km;
*     a small population base of less than half a million people;
*     a scarcity of skilled manpower;
*     a very high unemployment rate of about 40 percent; and
*     a largely undeveloped local road contracting industry.
4.    In view of the particular characteristics of the country, traditional approaches to improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of the roads sector as adopted in other countries may not be appropriate in the
Djibouti context. Careful consideration should therefore be given to the manner in which the road sector
is managed. To this end, consultancy services are required to undertake a review of the way the Djibouti
roads sector is organized and managed as a basis for defining its future direction, including the
introduction of effective institutional arrangements and mechanisms for achieving sustainable financing
of the sector.
B.    OBJECTIVES
5.    Based on a thorough analysis of the prevailing institutional and financial arrangements in the
roads sector in Djibouti, the overall objectives of this technical assistance are to:
134



(a)   recommend to GD the most suitable format for undertaking the overall management of
the national road network, considering the existing institutional framework as well as
alternative institutional arrangements with different types and levels of autonomy;
(b)   recommend an appropriate financing mechanism which ensures that maintenance of all
roads is adequately funded, and that sufficient funds are available for rehabilitation,
improvements, new construction and for the administration costs of all road activities;
(c)    prepare an Implementation Plan for putting in place the institutional framework and
financing mechanisms best suited for Djibouti together with an estimate of financial
implications. Such a plan shall be flexible enough to allow a phased introduction of
proposed changes.
C.  SCOPE OF WORK
6.    The TA will propose the establishment of an institutional framework and financing mechanism
best suited for the management of the Djibouti road network in line with the objectives set out in
paragraph 5 above. The study work will focus on two related areas:
*     institutional and related issues - comprised of structures, physical resources,
legislation, powers and policies which together manifest the GD' s responsibilities in this
field; and
financial and cost recovery related issues - embracing the various elements of budgets,
financial planning, sources of revenue and financial management applicable in
Government's resourcing of current and planned road infrastructure commitments,
covering both maintenance and new investments.
Phasing of Work
7.    The Consultant will be required to carry out the assignment in two separate and distinct phases.
*     Phase I will be carried out during the first 12 months of the Project to facilitate a process
of defining the institutional changes necessary and actions required to achieve financial
sustainability of the roads sector with specific recommendations and a time bound
program for their implementation. The proposed changes and the implementation
program will be discussed and agreed with the Government at the Early Implementation
Assessment of the Project to take place at the end of Phase I.
*     Phase II will be carried out during the remaining 3 years of the Project and would
involve (a gradual) introduction of effective institutional and financial arrangements with
the aim of putting in place mechanisms that will achieve full off-budget financing of the
roads sector within a 3 year period.
135



Phase I Activities
Institutional Issues
8.     So that the study may properly address the question of institutional development and change,
consideration must be given to a number of issues which will include but not necessarily be restricted to
the following:
(a)    the adequacy of the current arrangements for managing the road network and the factors
underlying the poor performance of the institutions presently involved in road
management.
(b)    the character, technical and administrative functions of the institutional framework best
suited to undertake overall control of management of the network or any subdivisions of
the network, paying particular attention to various available options including: -
* Reform of the existing institutions
* Creation of an autonomous agency or agencies
* Any other institutional arrangements
9.     For the recommended institutional framework, the study will define: -
*  The specific responsibilities of the institutions;
  The relationship between the institution(s) and the ministries responsible for the
road sector;
*  The mechanism for policy formulation (such as Board of Directors, Advisory
Boards, etc.);
*  Method of selection to ensure the widest representation of stakeholders on the
policy formulation body;
*  Remuneration packages that will enable the recommended institution to attract
and retain the services of suitably qualified professional, technical and skilled
personnel;
*  The administration and allocation of finances available for road related activities
including budget development, management systems, financial accounting
systems, internal auditing, etc.;
*  Human resource development packages which will address the problems
currently faced by the Ministry of Transport in this area, with a view to:
-      improving human resource management
-      improving manpower planning, utilization and career development
-      identifying training needs to enhance on the job skills and capacity
* Define External Audit procedures both financial and technical.
136



Financial Issues
10.   The Consultant will consider all options available for financing roads and make recommendations
for their introduction. Financing options may include but not necessarily be limited to Road Tolls, fuel
levies, road vehicle license fees, overload fines, annual budgetary allocations and other alternative road
financing such as Private / Public partnership. Due account will be taken of the existing Road Fund and
its role in any future arrangements for road financing.
11.   The Consultant will also define the powers to be granted to the body(ies) responsible for
managing the Fund as well as specifying the mechanisms to be used in its collection and disbursement.
12.   The Consultant will demonstrate how the Fund will eventually provide sufficient resources to
cover the costs of Development and/or Maintenance of the entire public road network. In order that the
study can recommend sufficient and equitable sources of finance, the following matters will, inter alia,'be
addressed: -
*  The present and future level and structures of costs of a desirable development
and maintenance program for the road system.
*  The cost imposed by different classes of road users on different types of road.
*  The level of use of automotive fuels by road users.
  The revenue required and appropriate levels of contribution to the fund, and
criteria for distribution of the revenue to different categories of roads.
*  The present funding mechanism: the revenue from each source, the mechanisms
and efficiency of collection and whether funds are dedicated to general revenue
or not.
*  Realistic projection of future revenue levels under the present arrangements and
any expected shortfall of financing.
*  Potential sources of additional financing and their means of collection.
*  The advisability of providing a transition period between the present and
proposed revenue levels, including the possibility of using external donor finance
to cover remaining shortfall during this period.
13.   The study will consider the fund management's structures and its functions, addressing the
following issues amongst any others which may be appropriate:
*  Co-ordination between the Fund Management and those Ministries and other
public and private sector organizations, which are involved in the road sector.
*  The location, composition and method of appointment of the Fund management
body, bearing in mind its relationship with the new institutional framework
proposed under paragraph 4.1 above.
137



* The control of revenue collection and disbursement from the Fund.
* The need to ensure proper transparency through internal and external audit
procedures, together with any measures to prevent fraud and irregularities.
*  The sources of revenue making up the Fund and the means by which they may be
collected and deposited in the Fund.
Statutory Instruments
14.   The proposed institutional framework to manage the national road network and setting up of a
revenue base may require a number of amendments to existing legislation and the introduction of new
statutes. The study will indicate and subsequently draft the necessary amendments to current laws,
including any new statutes that need to be introduced.
Phase II Activities
15.   The Consultant will organize the Early Implementation Assessment workshop and make
necessary presentations and participate in the discussions to clarify issues, options and
proposals/recommendations. Phase II activities will focus on the implementation of the various Phase I
recommendations agreed with GD at the EIA workshop. Such implementation will be carried out during
the remaining 3 years of the Project.
16.   During the EIA workshop, the Consultant will propose an appropriate management system for the
transition process itself, utilizing any resources that may be available locally.
17.   The Consultant will set out a timetable mapping the transitional stages during which the existing
management arrangements for the road network will be transformed into the new institutional framework.
Proper account will be taken of the lead times likely to prevail in filling key staff positions and the delays,
which can sometimes take place during the legislative process.
18.   The Consultant will identify elements of the proposed reforms, which can be implemented in the
short term within the current institutional arrangements in advance of the full implementation of the
agreed recommendations emanating from the EIA.
Conduct of the Study Work
19.   The study work will be conducted as a fully participatory exercise. The Government will appoint
a Reference Group that will guide the Consultants and ensure that the study in its analyses and
recommendations is aiming at sector reforms and future institutional frameworks, which are compatible
with Government policy.
20.   The study will establish and maintain the closest possible consultations with the key Government
Ministries, Departments and agencies concerned in the matter, local Government organizations, and the
organizations representing the main stakeholders in the private sector, and will ensure appropriate liaison
with representatives of the donor community currently supporting road sector activities.
21.   During the execution of the study phases, ample time will be allowed for discussions,
consolidation of findings, and planning of the next steps. The consultations are to be facilitated by a
liberal distribution of the study progress reports, after each phase.
138



22.   The study will review the experience of other countries in Africa and elsewhere, in particular for
countries which share similar historical and developmental backgrounds and which may have embarked
on the same kind of exercise with regard to reform of management and financing of their road networks.
The Consultants will prepare an overview of developments and experience elsewhere as part of the Phase
I tasks, and prepare a study tour for key policy makers as part of the Phase I activities.
23.   It is expected that the Consultant will establish a project office in Djibouti for the duration of the
Study, and that all report preparations will be made through this office.
Study Team Composition
General
24.   The study team should incorporate individuals with a wide range of proven professional
experience in a number of disciplines including but not limited to those listed below:
Institutional Reform and Management
25.   The expert(s) will ideally have a background of senior position(s) in public and/or private
enterprises, experience from institutional and management reforms, and the introduction and gainful use
of modern management systems and tools. The expert(s) will have good academic qualifications in
business administration or equivalent, and proven experience in dealing with human resource
development and staff rationalization.
Road Sector Planning and Works Programming and Execution
26.   The expert(s) will have extensive experience of planning, programming and execution of road
maintenance and rehabilitation in developing countries, including use of road agencies own resources and
Consultants / contractors, and from use of equipment as well as labor based technologies. The expert(s)
will be familiar with the issues associated with government held stocks of plant and equipment, and have
an understanding of the economics of highway related activities and the use of computer based highway
investment and maintenance management models.
Financing Systems Design and Operation
27.   The expert(s) will have experience from banking and/or the financial echelons of public or private
corporations, and a clear appreciation of technical and financial audit methods and procedures. The
expert(s) will have relevant academic and professional qualifications and be famniliar with financial issues
and problems in developing countries.
Djibouti Law and Legal Systems
28.   The expert(s) will be completely familiar with the parliamentary and legal system in Djibouti and
of the legal implications and opportunities of public sector reformns including decentralization and
privatization services.
Study Management
29.   The study team leader will be responsible for the overall management of the study progress, of
the study resources, for liaison and co-operation with the Steering Committee, and the necessary
139



communication with senior personnel in government ministries and public and private organizations. The
team leader should have the capacity to motivate both the study team itself and the Steering Comrnmittee,
and to engage the sector organizations to be affected by the implementation of reform proposals in a
fruitful dialogue. This will call for a considerable degree of diplomacy coupled with a consistent
advocacy of the study objectives.
30.   It is stressed that the above guidelines outline required professional competence and experience
and not specific team positions. Individual experts may provide part of the requirements within a
discipline, or may cover parts of or the totality of several disciplines.
31.   It is expected that the study team will include two or more senior experts including the team
leader, who will stay with the study for its duration. It is further expected that the study team will include
a number of experts who have good knowledge of Djibouti socio-economic conditions and culture, and of
the structures and characteristics of the Djibouti public and private sectors.
2. OBLIGATIONS OF THE CLIENT
General
32.    The client Ministry shall be Ministry of Equipment and Transport which will be represented by
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The Consultant will report to the Director of the PIU or his
representative.
Information Availability
33.    The client will make available to the Consultant any documentation that is currently obtainable
from organizations and has relevance to the study. Otherwise the Consultant will be required to obtain all
relevant information or reports related to the study.
34.    Relatively little up-to-date information is available on the road network in terms of quantitative road
conditions, traffic flows, maintenance costs, etc. As a result, the Consultant will be required to verify
existing data and to obtain new data pertinent to the requirements of the $tudy.
35.    Some documentation is available which relates to institutional, management and organization
arrangements including proposals for a number of potential alterations to existing arrangements. This will
serve as a starting point, but thereafter, the Consultants appointed will need to consider this information in
the broader context of the requirements of the objectives of the Study given in paragraph 3.
36.    The Consultant will make an inventory of any documents received and will return these to the
Client not later than the time of delivery of the final report.
Reference Group
37.    A reference group will be set up by the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, with
representatives from various stakeholder organizations, to monitor progress of the Consultants and
resolve questions that arise during the course of the study.
Liaison Officer
38.    A liaison Officer will be appointed by the Ministry of Equipment Transport to Liaise with the
Consultant on all matters related to the execution of the study. The liaison Officer will advise and
facilitate contacts with other relevant organizations for the Consultant in necessary.
140



Financing & Taxation
39.   The obligations regarding financial and taxation arrangements are set out in the proposed form of
contract.
Counterpart Staff
40.   The Client may provide counterpart staff, when available for the purpose of training and to
participate in the Study work.
OBLIGATIONS OF CONSULTANT
Qualifications of Staff
41.   The personnel proposed by the Consultant will require a sound background on institution
building. The candidates to be deployed for the various inputs for the study shall be of the caliber as
required under section seven of this terms of reference.
Other Obligations
42.   The Consultant will be responsible for providing all the required office accommodation, offices,
equipment, housing and transport for his personnel.
43.   The Consultant will be responsible for all the printing, copying and binding of reports and other
documents necessary for the satisfactory execution of the study.
44.   The Consultant shall generally assist the client with the development of commitment to the need
for reform. To this end, the Consultant should expect to be required to make a formal presentation of any
major report to a substantial audience, so that salient issues and recommendation are properly
communicated to the staff of organizations involved and interested parties are identified by the reference
group. The client will defray the costs of the venue and presentation equipment will be made available by
the Consultant on such occasions.
45.   The Consultant shall maintain close liaison with the Government, in order that the emphasis and
direction of the study be continuously monitored.
WORK PROGRAM AND REPORTING.
General
46.   The Consultants will prepare and submit the following reports to Roads at the dates and with the
number of copies as indicated below.
Reports
47.   Inception report (20 copies):
To be submitted 8 weeks from the start of work and will include:
141



review, problem analysis and initial findings regarding the current institutional and funding arrangements
for road development and maintenance, including any proposed changes in carrying out the services.
detailed plan for the continued work during Phase I, including a description of the proposed methodology
and any proposed amendments.
43.   Interim Report (20 copies):
To be submitted 24 weeks from the start of the work an will including:
(a)    discussion of the feasibility, advantages and disadvantages with alternative institutional
structures and funding mechanisms leading to a recommended institutional structure and
funding arrangements;
(b)    outline format of the recommended institutional structure and relationships with other
Government agencies;
(c)    outline evaluation of the financial viability of the recommended structure, on what terms
and in what time perspective; and
(d)    proposed work program for Phase II.
49.   The Interim Report (2) will be reviewed by Government and the result of that review may affect
the program for Phase II. However, it is expected that some work during the second phase can proceed in
parallel without loss of time.
50.   Final Report (40 copies):
51.   To be submitted 40 weeks from the start of the work and will include:
(a)    Review of the findings of the Interim Report, based on conmments received and on
subsequent results;
(b)    detailed analysis and recommendations for the possible implementation of the
recommended organization for road development and maintenance, including financing,
management and relationships with other Government agencies;
(c)    proposed action plan and time plan for the implementation of the recommendations; and
(d)    proposed work program for Phase II
52.   In addition to the number of reports specified above, the Consultant will also submit 2 copies of
all reports direct to the IDA Office, Att. Terje Wolden, World Bank, 1818 H Street, NW, Washington, DC
20433, USA. All communications, documents and instructions prepared by the Consultants shall be in
both French and English.
53.   The Consultant will commence the study within four weeks of the date on which the instruction is
given to proceed.
54.   The Consultant's resource requirements for Phase II will be decided at the end of Phase I in
relation to the defined and approved scope of work for that phase.
142



Outline Manning and Time Schedule:
55.   An indicative manning and time schedule are shown below merely to indicate the Client's
perception of the scope of the Study. This Figure is meant to guide the Consultants in the preparation of
their offers and the Consultant will be free to propose any alternative program/manpower staffing they
consider necessary to fulfill the objectives and the Terms of Reference of the Technical Assistance.
Suggested Staffing
56.   Without prejudice to the liberty of short-listed firms to make alternative suggestions it is
estimated that total technical manpower input to the Study by the Consultants should not exceed
20 man months:
Institutional Dev. Expert and Team Leader                               8 months
Transport Economist (Cost recovery & performance measures)              3 months
Highway Maintenance Engineer and Roadwork's Management Specialist       2 months
HRD training (and assistance with job descriptions)                     2 months
Legal/Financial Expert                                                  2 months
Management Systems Adviser                                              1 month
Construction industry specialist                                        1 months
Plant Management Expert                                                 1 month
143



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
HIVIAIDS STUDY TO DEVELOP A WARENESS AND AN OUTREACH PROGRAM
Terms of Reference
The consultants shall carry out the following reviews and analyses:
(a)   Identify groups which are vulnerable to HIV/AIDS infection along the Djibouti-Galafi
corridor.
(b)    Review existing HIV/AIDS activities in Djibouti, including activities implemented and/or
programmed by the Ministry of Health under financing from the World Health
Organization. Identify funding or other resource gaps, particularly for activities
impacting the Djibouti-Galafi road corridor.
(c)    Supplement existing HIV/AIDS education programs in Djibouti (for example, those
supported by the WHO) by identifying specific interventions applicable to the transport
sector in general, and the Djibouti-Addis corridor in particular, if these have not been
identified previously. Where particular obstacles to such programs are evident, such as
language barriers, propose targeted activities to address such obstacles. Identify
supplemental educational activities for emergency services personnel, and first aid
training of police and highway personnel. The proposed interventions would be
implemented during Phase II of project implementation (years 2 to 5).
(d)    Working with WHO and the Ministry of Health, identify the principal gaps in knowledge
about HIV infection in Djibouti, particularly along the Djibouti-Galafi corridor. Identify
the steps that would be necessary to rectify such a gap, and develop appropriate sample
Terms of Reference for such a study.
(e)    Assist in identifying co-financing for an HIV/AIDS-related intervention during Phase II
of the Djibouti-rehabilitation of international road corridor project, as well as co-
financing to undertake all or part of the study identified in 0.
(f)    Define action that would mitigate the risk of HIV/AIDS for transport sector workers,
partners, and affected communities and help care for those persons already with AIDS.
(g)    Assist the Ethiopian trucking associations to develop comprehensive HIV/AIDS
prevention and control programs for truck drivers and their families. These programs
might consist of information dissemination, education, training, counseling, peer
education, condom distribution, diagnosis and treatment of STIs and the opportunistic
infections associated with AIDS, as well as medical and social care for infected
employees. Identify what types of facilities along the roadway and at the Port might
assist in the development of these programs.
144



DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD SAFETY AUDIT FOR NATIONAL ROAD NO. I IN DJIBOUTI
Terms of Reference
The consultants shall carry out the following reviews and analyses:
(a)    Carry out a detailed review of accident black spots, identifying and prioritizing these
according potential accident reduction and cost-effectiveness of possible interventions.
Identify which of these (if any) can be addressed quickly and inexpensively under the
IDA-financed project, and which are more appropriate to be dealt with under the EU-
financed project. This task should be accomplished early in the contract.
(b)    Describe existing traffic safety conditions, as quantitatively as available data allow,
inventory safety-related laws, regulations and institutions in both Ethiopia and Djibouti,
and identify key problems and issues.
(c)    Propose modifications of existing Djibouti laws and regulations concerning traffic and
vehicle safety, vehicle registration and inspection, and driver licensing to achieve greater
uniformiity with international regulations like the Vienna Convention or the North-
American Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA), and identify what changes to
Ethiopian laws might be necessary to ensure compatibility between the two countries.
(d)    Work with representatives of the Port of Djibouti, the various Ethiopian trucking
associations and the Roads Directorate, to help develop an emergency-response brigade
along the corridor which can quickly respond to traffic accidents along the corridor, in
terms of providing medical assistance to accident victims, traffic re-stabilization
measures, and clean-up assistance in the case of hazardous materials spills.
(e)    Review current data collection practices and design a consistent national traffic accident
data collection system. Define the approach for systematic data analysis (including
identification of black spots) and reporting; select (from among existing packages) a
Road Accident Analysis System and define its gradual implementation on a nation-wide
basis. Propose viable methods of financing such a system. [PERHAPS USE THE
TERM "CORRIDOR" INSTEAD OF "NATIONAL"]
(f)    Develop a detailed action plan to implement, within a 1-2 year period, such a data
collection and analysis system for the road network under the responsibility of the Roads
Directorate.
(g)    Review the current system of vehicle inspections and safety controls, and arrangements
being made for monitoring of axle loading in conjunction with the various Ethiopian
Trucking Associations. Make appropriate recommendations to combine these activities to
develop and efficient, self-regulating system to reduce risk of traffic accidents while
reducing damage to roadways.
(h)    Review the current system of licensing drivers and monitoring their record infractions in
both Ethiopia and Djibouti, including cooperative arrangements between the two
countries. Make appropriate recommendations to make these systems more effective in
reducing traffic accidents.
(i)    Define a strategy to improve traffic safety education along the Djibouti - Galafi corridor.
145



Annex 14: Implementation Schedule
DJIBOUTI: INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Activit                                      Start         Finish
Specialists (PHRD funding)
Invitation and Proposal preparation          4.18.00       5.31.00
Select Materials and Pavement Spec. (2)      4.25.00       5.01.00
Select Equipment Specialist                  4.19.00       5.01.00
Force Account Equipment Evaluation           6.01.00       6.30.00
Select Contracts Specialist                  5.12.00       5.31.00
Select Financial Specialist                  5.22.00       5.31.00
Preliminary Reports (specialist)             5.31.00       6.30.00
Final Report/Typical Designs/Bid Documents.  6.30.00       7.31.00
Liaise with Construction Manager.            7.31.00       8.15.00
Construction Manager
Invitation and Proposals                     5.01.00       5.31.00
Evaluation and Selection                     7.10.00       7.31.00
Manage Project                               7.31.00        10.31.01
Offices, Vehicles, Equip.                    7.31.00       8.31.00
Spare Parts                                  8.01.00        10.01.00
Supervising Engineer
Invitation and Proposals                     5.01.00       5.31.00
Evaluation and Selection                     7.11.00       7.31.00
Intermittent services                        7.31.00       9.15.00
Supervise Project                            9.15.00       7.31.01
Board Approval                               6.22.00       6.22.00
Project Effectiveness                        7.31.00       7.31.00
6.01.00   ~7.3 1.00
Set up PIU and Accounts                      6.01.00
Force Account Unit
Establish                                    7.31.00       9.01.00
Project Materials Production                 8.01.00        1.31.01
Project Works Execution                      9.01.00       7.31.01
146



Implementation Schedule (cont.)
Activity                                    Start          Finish
NCBs Works
Bid Preparation by Regional Contractors     8.31.00        9.30.00
Evaluation and Award                        9.30.00        10.31.00
Implementation Period (Works- Subst. Compl.)  10.31.00     6.30.01
Final Completion                            6.30.01        10.30.01
Warranty Period                             6.30.01        6.30.01
NCBs Materials
Bid Preparation by Local Contractors        8.15.00        8.31.00
Evaluation and Award                        8.31.00        9.15.00
Furnish Materials                           9.30.00        2.28.01
Institutional Development Consultants
Invitation and Proposals Preparation        9.01.00        10.31.00
Evaluations and Award of Contract           11.01.00       11.30.00
Implementation                              01.01.00       10.01.01
Axle Load Control Stations
Procurement of Civil Works                  4.01.01        7.01.01
Procurement of Equipment                    5.01.01        7.01.01
Installation of Equipment and Training      7.02.01        10.01.01
Road Maintenance
Bid, Evaluation and Award                   5.01.01        11.30.01
Maintenance (3 year contract, extendable
on an annual basis thereafter)   7.01.02       6.30.05
Project Complete                                           6.30.04
Credit Closing Date                                        12.31.04
147



Annex 15: Review of the Construction Industry in Djibouti
DJIBOUTI:- INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    The significant part of the construction industry in Djibouti comprises about six contractors, two
of whom are large foreign contractors, but with a small presence in Djibouti. There was no significant
road work ongoing at the time of the appraisal mission. One contractor, COLAS, had just completed
repair of a part of the international corridor between the Arta turnoff to Dikhil using a French grant; but
the allocated funds were insufficient to repair the entire section. The only significant future road work, in
addition to the Bank's repair of the international corridor, is the reconstruction and possible re-alignment
of the international road by European Union (EU). The project is in the embryonic phase, since the EU
feasibility study team had just mobilized in Djibouti at the same time as the Bank's appraisal mission
arrived. In a recent development, the World Food Programme has proposed infusion of up to $ 4.2
million in funds to perform emergency grading operations on the international corridor. One of the
options being considered is the use of the Roads Department equipment to perform the work.
2.    Because of the paucity of road work in Djibouti, there are no purely dedicated road contractors.
The industry is composed of general contractors, who perform road work; process materials work for the
Port of Djibouti; and work as contractors for developers, performing site work and building work. The
road Djibouti to Galafi was constructed by the French Government in 1976, by COLAS. The French
Government recently expended $2.8 million to use the COLAS firm to repair part of the Arta - Dikhil
road. The reality is that the contractors, currently working in Djibouti, do not have recent experience in
performing work on large projects ( such as the emergency repair of the international corridor) nor does
any one have the resources in the country to execute a large project.
3.    The same condition applies to the Roads Department. There is no recent experience and expertise
in managing large road rehabilitation projects. Most of the recent works have been done under grant
programs, and there are signs of deterioration of recently placed work, suggesting possible deficiencies in
construction, construction supervision, or other areas. In any event, the Roads Department has no current
staff available for supervision or supervisory work. The Roads Department has done no recent
maintenance, probably due to lack of funds. Roads Department personnel were paid their December, 1999
salaries in late April, 2000. However, the department's maintenance unit from Parc/Atelier is building a
parking lot for Djibouti Port trucks at km 12 of the international road.
B.    CONTRACTORS
COLAS: COLAS is a large French company with a presence in fifty countries. The Djibouti
headquarters and equipment yard is located together. In addition to trucks, dozers and rollers, the yard
holds concrete and other equipment needed for building construction. There is one mobile crushing plant
in Djibouti with a capacity of 40 t/hr. That is one-fourth of the capacity needed for the Bank's project. If
required, COLAS would import additional equipment from Madagascar. This would require two months.
COLAS built the international corridor in 1976 and indicated there were two quarries used: one in
Yaboki; and one between Yaboki and Galafi. Plenty of water is available along the road; but wells should
be drilled since 70 cu.m. per day is required to build the road. Water is available in Dikhil and Galafi.
With respect to labor, the cost is high. COLAS imports foremen, operators for the graders, crushing plant
and finishing machines, as well as surveyors. COLAS has a permanent staff of fifty people in Djibouti.
148



COLAS works in partnership with COSMEZZ on some ventures in the country.
COSMEZZ: COSMEZZ has its headquarters in Rome, and is currently constructing the Dry Port
project for the Port of Djibouti. COSMEZZ has a fixed crushing plant in Djibouti with a 350 cu.m. per
day capacity. The plant can be broken down and transferred to another site. The whole relocation and re-
erection process will take two months. COSMEZZ' opinion was that the entire project could be built by
them in 11 months, including two months mobilization and an extra month to bring in equipment from
overseas. The two months initial period is to pursue the contractor's risk of finding the stone and the
water, COSMEZZ thought the work could be placed in six months. COSMEZZ will accept a contract to
furnish aggregates and materials to others, but will not accept materials furnished by others. They too
believed a detour must be allowed in order to complete on time.
COSMEZZ indicated that crushed stone base at the crusher in Djibouti City cost about $12/cu.m. Skilled
workers are paid $3.60 to $4 per hour, and unskilled workers $0.80 to $0.90 per hour. 19.5% must be
added for taxes. A hidden cost is that different workers must be used in different regions, or tribal limits.
The Dikhil - Galafi road crosses three such regions.
CONCORDE: CONCORDE is a local Djibouti company started in 1979, and specializes in the
construction of roads. They are currently working in joint venture with COSMEZZ and are working with
COLAS on the international corridor. Concorde is completing bridge construction for the French army
and is now starting a port job. They do buildings as well. Equipment owned includes graders, vibratory
and rubber tired rollers, a bitumen distributor and a Belgian rock crusher rated at 300 to 400 cu.m./day.
Internal rental rates are charged for company owned equipment.
Concorde has perforned crushed stone base work in the past. In Djibouti City, crushed stone base costs
4500 DF ($25.42)/cu.m. delivered, and 5000DF ($28.25) /cu.m. outside for a 15 km haul. Truck drivers
earn 100,000 to 110,000 DF per month (approximately $650). There are local social charges. Labor costs
are much cheaper in Ethiopia, but there is a national preference for Djiboutians.
In the past Concorde has developed wells between Galafi and Djibouti. Water is eight meters below the
surface. Concorde estimates nine months to build the Bank's project, including mobilization. As a sole
venture their limit of production is 40,000 cu.m. in six months. However, they can work in joint venture.
Concorde has contracts with Salini, an Italian contractor working in Ethiopia and is in a joint venture with
an Iranian company, Cysus for bulk bitumen. Concorde imports spare parts, fuel and bitumen.
VERZI: VERZI started in Ethiopia in 1973 and has been based in Djibouti since 1980. Current work
includes building a 3000 sq.m. workshop at the airport for military equipment and site work. Current
work is 100% private sector, thirty percent of which is site work. Unlike some countries, a foreign
contractor is not obliged to have a local partner in Djibouti.
Verzi's equipment includes:
Concrete batch plant - 100 cu.m. /hr.
Transit mix trucks - 4 @ 8 cu.m.
Concrete pump - 90 cu.m./hr.
Graders - 2
Wheel loaders - 5
Compressors - 6
Dozers - 2 (CAT D8 and D7)
Steel rollers - 3
Excavators 2 (CAT)
149



Hydraulic Backhoe (428)
Dump trucks (16 to 20 cm)- 10
Small spreader for surface treatment
Verzi has no crusher but can mobilize one in 1.5 months. Verzi collaborates with an Italian contractor.
With respect to the Bank project, Verzi is interested in part of the rock crushing and transport. A two
month lead time is required: one month to get the equipment; and one month for erection. With a 150 t/hr.
plant, Verzi could produce 20,000 cu.m. per month. Verzi also could apply surface treatment at the rate of
1 to 1.5 km per day.
Verzi has pipeline experience in the Dikhil - Galafi area. He opined that the biggest problem in Djibouti is
the lack of qualified personnel. Most contractors use Thais and Filipinos.
With respect to Government work, it normally takes the Government three months to award a contract.
Verzi thinks this could be cut to one month with a consultant's help.
FIAN BADEN: FIAN BADEN is a local road contractor whose business includes earthwork, sewage,
building site work and rental of equipment to other contractors. Precast concrete work is also done.
Typical operated equipment rental rates up to 15 days range from 15000 to 20000 DF per hour (177 DF =
1 USD) . Typical rates are: grader - 16000 DF/hour; 950C loader - 15000 to 20000 DF per hour; rollers
and compactors at 10000 to 15000 DF per hour.
Other equipment includes 2 Poclain excavators, including one with a hyrda hammer, (same price as
grader) and trucks.
Production capabilities include foundation installation at 100 cu.m./day; and stone base at 50 to 75cu.m.
per day within 8 km of the plant up to 15 km.
CHIRDON: CHIRDON were not available for an interview but did provide a list of equipment similar
to Fian Baden's.
150



Annex 16: Review of Road Management and Finance in Djibouti
DJIBOUTI:- INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
The strategic importance of Djibouti as a transit center for goods destined for countries in the Horn of
Africa is dependent on an effective transport sector including a good quality road system. Unfortunately,
due to inadequate funding of road maintenance, coupled with increased traffic volumes and axle loads,
many roads have deteriorated prematurely and transport costs are rising. There is therefore an urgent need
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the road transport system in order to safeguard the role of
the Djibouti port and the transit corridor in the national economy.
The Government of Djibouti is aware of the need to improve the way in which the roads sector is
managed and financed. A Road Fund was set up in February 1999 but is not yet fully operational and
various measures are still required to be put in place for its effective functioning. In the meanwhile,
virtually no maintenance is being carried out by the Roads Department due to lack of funds and
inadequate institutional capacity.
Whilst there is a recognition of the need to improve the way in which the roads sector is managed and
financed, the way forward needs to be carefully considered due to the particular characteristics of the
country including:
* a relatively small road network of less than 1200 kms;
*  a small population base of less than half a million people;
* a scarcity of skilled manpower;
* a very high unemployment of about 40 percent;
* a largely undeveloped local contracting industry.
Thus, traditional approaches to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the roads sector as adopted
in other countries may not be appropriate in the Djibouti context. Careful consideration should therefore
be given to the manner in which the road sector is restructured.
2.    DJIBOUTI'S MAIN ROAD NEWTORK
2.1 Network Size and Pavement Type
The total length of Djibouti's national road network is 1171.5 kilometres made up as follows:
[Ra rTpe: (kmn)
[Pve                   _l               ITra*       -       :  Totalr_v-:-c
331.93 (28.3%)      309.4 (26.4%)        530.2 (45.3%)      l 1171.5 (100.0%)
The volume of road upgrading to bituminous standard during the past decade has been limited. Currently,
approximately 28 per cent of the total road length is paved and recently some sections have reverted to
unpaved (e.g. the 102 km section between Dikhil and Galafi) due to a significant increase in traffic
loading coupled with complete lack of maintenance.
151



In addition, there are also some 200 km of urban roads of which 115 km (57.5%) are paved, mostly in and
around Djibouti, and the remaining 85 km (42.5%) are gravel.
2.2 Road Conditions
No current statistics are available on road conditions in Djibouti. However, through donor assistance, a
number of regional (transit) routes have been, or are in the process of being, rehabilitated due to complete
lack of maintenance in the past. This includes approximately 188 km of National Route #1 running
between Arta turnoff through Dikhil to Galafi at the Ethiopian border.
A number of roads have recently been rehabilitated, including the first 33 km from Djibouti towards
Oueah (Arta Turnoff) under an Italian bilateral aid project and a 12 km section between Al Sabieh and the
Ethiopian border at Guelile funded by the Islamic Development Bank. These roads are still in good
condition but, unless they are adequately maintained in future, they will suffer premature deterioration
and require to be upgraded as before (a vicious cycle of construct-no maintenance-reconstruct).
2.3  Road Traffic
Long-distance traffic is heaviest on the route from Djibouti to Ethiopia via Galafi which is currently
carrying some 400 - 500, 5-6 axle commercial vehicles per day in one direction at the Galafi end. Almost
all this traffic emanates from the port of Djibouti which currently serves as the entry point for imports to
Ethiopia. This traffic is expected to increase significantly in the short to medium term due to famine relief
operations for Ethiopia.
Traffic on the most heavily loaded links in Djibouti city is currently averaging over 15,000 vpd, but these
volumes drop considerably outside of the city.
3.  MANAGEMENT OF THE ROAD NETWORK
3.1    Organization and Responsibilities
In the past, management of the national road network was the responsibility of the Public Works arm of
the Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban Development, which was adequately staffed with a
clear mandate. Since the transfer of the road function of the Public Works Department to the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport in 1999, there has been a considerable reduction in qualified staff, the manager
of the department has been appointed on a temporary basis for more than a year, and the role and mandate
of the department has become unclear. Five engineers and two technicians have been transferred from the
Roads Department to other ministries within Government. This loss of staff has significantly weakened
the institutional capacity of the department to operate in a satisfactory manner.
The staffing of the Roads Department is currently as follows:
2000:       1999:
No. of Engineers                                                       3         8
No. of technical advisors (French)                                     1         1
No. of Technicians                                                     5         7
No. of administrative, accounting, clerical, etc staff               281       420?
152



There is also a force account unit comprising some 300 personnel and an equipment fleet stock of about
160 pieces of all types of road construction and maintenance equipment. This unit falls under the Roads
Department and its main function is to carry out public works within Government. It is often directed in
its operations by the Ministry of Equipment and Transport. A government owned soils testing laboratory
for buildings and public works, the LBTP, also falls under the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, is
staffed with civil servants, and provides services on a commercial basis to both the public and private
sector.
3.2    Road Maintenance Funding
The available road budget and that actually utilized on salaries and road works during the past 5 years is
summarized in the following table:
i SW         Alude  Aloauo  ofBuaetfM Fu        Utilioi fl d 
Y-&r --ow    .a.re                  War;;;           ______._a >.. .
_________  .  -. :t   .           Ai ,ot      %    Ampni:-    __ -X._._A_o  _
1995   343 223 000  168 773 000  49   174 450 000  51   153 747 921  91   13 578 224   8    167 326 145  49
1996   245 724 000  142 974 000  58   102 250 000  42   126 622 369  89   11 ll 871   11   137 734 240  56
1997   225 224 000  134 474 000  60   88 750 000   40   134 165 005  100  22 974 790   26   157 139 795  70
1998   212 058 000   87 608 000  41   63 450 000   59   53 133 853   61   15 484 000   24   68 617 853   32
1999   161 500000   61 250000  38   44281 549   62   53191 014   87   18574550   42   71 765564   44
2000           _
FY 2000: 1 US$ = 170 DJF; FY 1995: 1 US$ = 178 DJF
As is apparent from the above table, the amount budgeted to the Roads Department over the past 5 years
has declined substantially by about 53%. Between 1996 and 1998, approximately 75% of the budget
made available to the department has been utilized for paying staff salaries, a figure which reduced to
58% in 1999. In 1998 and 1999 the funding received was insufficient to fully pay staff salaries, while up
to March 2000 no salaries have yet been paid since November 1999. Not surprisingly, staff morale is low
and, due to lack of funding, practically no maintenance is being carried out on the main road network,
resulting in deteriorating road conditions.
3.3 Impediments to Effective Road Management
The impediments to effective road management in Djibouti are numerous and include the following:
(a)    inadequate skills and capacities in the road administration;
(b)    lack of a clear organizational structure and responsibilities;
(c)    insufficient funds for all aspects of road management including maintenance and
rehabilitation;
(d)    inadequate planning, programming and budgeting of road works;
(e)    lack of adherence to agreed budgets and little accountability for performance;
(f)    inadequate systems for the effective monitoring and auditing of expenditure and
payments; and
(g)    weakness in procedures for the disbursement of funds.
Under the present arrangements, there seems to be little likelihood that the above impediments will be
redressed.
153



4.   ATTEMPTS AT ROAD SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
Government's recognition of the need to reform the roads sector has led to the establishment of a Road
Fund for off budget funding of road maintenance. There are also plans for re-organizing and
strengthening the Roads Department, introducing a better system for road planning and budgeting, and
introducing axle load control measures.
4.1   Establishment of a Road Fund
By Decree No. 1440 dated 15' August 1999, a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) was created on 1st
February 2000 to finance the maintenance of the national road network, with priority to be given to the
regional (transit) routes. The funding sources will subsequently be expanded to cover maintenance
funding of the entire national road network.
The RMF currently has a staff complement of 16 people and has recently established its own offices,
accounting system, etc. The monthly revenue is currently of the order FDB 15 - 20 million. The
Management Committee (5 member Board with majority from private sector) is scheduled to meet every
3 months but is yet to have its first meeting.
The main concerns center on the way in which the Road Fund is currently constituted, in that there is no
provision for separate planning, programming and budgeting by the MOET/Roads Department to provide
a rational basis on which the road fund can disburse funds, and determine the level of charges needed to
fully fund maintenance of the road network. Given this shortcoming, there is a significant risk that the
RMF would develop these functions in house, in which case there could be inadequate controls and
conflict of interest if the oversight function of the Board is weak. Alternatively, there is a risk that the
funds could be diverted for purposes other than road maintenance.
The main features of the fund are given in Attachment A.
4.2 Proposed Strengthening of the Roads Department
Proposals have been prepared recently by the Ministry of Equipment and Transport as well as the Roads
Department to restructure and reorganize the Roads Department. The proposals envisage that:
(a)   there will be a separation of the planning and management functions of the Roads
Department from the force account operations which previously constituted the bulk of
the department's activities;
(b)   the Roads Department's primary responsibilities in future would focus on road planning,
programmning and budgeting whilst execution of works would be undertaken by
competitive bidding in the private sector;
(c)   in fulfilling its new mandate, the Roads Department is planned to be strengthened and
subsequently or immediately transformed into an autonomous Road Authority; and
(d)   the force account unit would eventually be privatized and in the interim should operate
along commercialized lines.
4.3 Introduction of Road Management System
154



The French Government has agreed in principle to assist the Roads Department with the introduction of
an appropriate Road Management System for better planning, programming and budgeting activities
using an economic model such as the World Bank's HDM-III/IV. However, this initiative has been put on
hold pending the re-organization of the Roads Department and the establishment of a more sustainable
structure better able to make proper use of the Road Management System.
4.4 Introduction of Axle Load Control
Currently, there is no overload control in Djibouti. The result is that overloading is undoubtedly
occurring, the extent and consequence of which is likely be significant in terms of accelerated road
deterioration and increased maintenance needs.
Plans are underway to establish overload control facilities in the port area and eventually to deploy weigh-
bridges at strategic locations on the main road network. The introduction of these facilities needs to be
accelerated and appropriate, economically based fines introduced. Careful consideration should be given
to the management of the weigh-bridge operations with options including the use of the private sector on
a performance management basis or possibly under the Roads Department. Safety considerations also
need to be effectively addressed and closely monitored.
5.   ROAD MAINTENANCE
5.1 Funding: Requirements versus Appropriations
Maintenance of the road network has consistently fallen behind requirements and, since independence,
successive Governments have been unable to adequately fund road maintenance activities. Until very
recently with the establishment of the Road Fund, the sole source of funding for road maintenance has
been Government budgetary allocations. Based on updated estimates prepared by consultants, the annual
maintenance needs are estimated as follows:
* 203 million FDJ for urban roads
*  676 million FDJ for the national road network (about US$4 m), of which:
* 352 million FDJ for roads of regional (transit) importance,
- 324 million FDJ for the remainder of the road network.
From the above estimates, it is apparent that over the past five years at least, the funds released to the
Roads Department for maintaining national roads (average 16 million FDJ) was less than less 3 per cent
of the estimated annual requirement!
5.2 The Consequences of Inadequate Maintenance
As a result of past neglect, the paved road network has deteriorated badly and many sections have had to
be rehabilitated at a much higher cost than timely maintenance. An example is the urgent need to restore
the National Route #1 between Arta turnoff-Dikhil-Galafi, to a stable, maintainable state. This will
involve extensive upgrading and rehabilitation for which donor assistance has had to be sought. The
ultimate success of such assistance will depend on the country's ability to fully fund future road
maintenance on a sustainable basis and to manage the sector effectively.
Another consequence of inadequate maintenance is the higher vehicle operating costs incurred by the
transporters resulting in higher consumer prices.
155



5.3 Axle Load Limits
Djibouti' s axle load limits are similar to those of other Francophone countries. The single axle load limit
on the rear axle is 13 tonnes compared with 10 tonnes in most Anglophone countries, including Ethiopia.
Thus, as a result of the 4t power law which relates axle load to pavement damage, the damaging effect of
such axles is relatively very high. Djibouti needs to decide on what are appropriate axle load limits,
taking account of developments in the COMESA region, of which it is a member, as well as its bi-lateral
agreement with countries such as Ethiopia, Eritrea and Somalia.
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Against the above observations, and in the context of this emergency rehabilitation project, the following
are some conclusions that can be drawn regarding financing and management of roads in Djibouti:
(a)    The poor condition of the road network is seriously affecting the reliability of the road
corridor which in turn is jeopardizing the role of Djibouti as entry port for the region;
(b)    Past neglect of maintenance has resulted in loss of road assets, the restoration of which
will require substantial funding in the future;
(c)    Reliance on annual budgetary appropriations for road maintenance is unsatisfactory as
allocations in the past have been grossly inadequate;
(d)    The prevailing high axle load limits, high degree of overloading and lack of enforcement
of legal limits are compounding the adverse effects of lack of maintenance;
(e)    The introduction of a Road Fund has provided a good start in securing a sustainable
source of funding for road maintenance independent of the regular budget. Additional
funding is required to fund the maintenance of the entire road network, and should now
be given priority.
(f)    To manage the sector more efficiently and effectively the institutional arrangements
should now be reviewed urgently and an action plan agreed to achieve this objective as
soon as possible.
RECOMMENDED PLAN OF ACTION
(a)    An framework agreement to be reached between the GD and IDA on the future direction
of the road sector, including management and financing, as part of the preparation of this
project, with concrete steps and a time bound program;
(b)    Undertake agreed studies, workshops and other necessary actions during the first 12
months of the Project to facilitate a process of achieving institutional transformation and
financial sustainability of the road sector;
(c)    Agree with the GD at an Early Implementation Assessment of the Project on a three year
action program to introduce effective institutional arrangements and full off budget
financing of the road sector;
(d)   Implement this three year program as a component of the Project.
156



(e)    The future role of force account operations in the road sector should form part of the
studies, and be discussed and decided upon at the EIA.
Terms of Reference for the first year activities are given in Annex 13.
157



Attachment A
Review of Road Management and Finance in Djibouti
Main Features of the Djibouti Road Fund
(a)    Revenue is derived from charging all trucks using Djibouti's transit routes, as well as
those going to Lake Assal, a levy of US$ 0.5 per tonne up to a maximum of US$15;
(b)    The revenue is collected by the Fund accountant and deposited in an account at the
National Bank of Djibouti;
(c)    The receipts from the account are to be used to fund road maintenance only by
competitive bidding in the private sector. New construction will continue to be financed
under existing budgetary procedures;
(d)    The receipts, expenditures, accounting and management of the Fund must follow normal
budgetary and auditing rules and procedures; and
(e)    The Fund is to be administered by a management committee comprised of the following
five members:
(i)    A representative of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport;
(ii)   A representative of the Ministry of Finance;
(iii)   A representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry; and
(iv)   Two representatives from the transport industry (one each from Djibouti and
Ethiopia).
The committee will choose its president from among its members and will take decisions by simple
majority;
(a)    The administration of the fund will be carried out by an administrator who will be
charged with:
(i)   carrying out the decisions taken by the management committee;
(ii)   preparing and proposing the budget of the Fund; and
(iii)  representing the fund in legal matters.
(b)    A Fund accountant nominated by the Minister of Finance will be responsible for:
(i)   ensuring the procedures of the Fund are in conformity with public accounting
procedures;
(ii)   carrying all accounting and financial operations of the Fund; and
(iii)  producing periodic reports of the status of the Fund to the Treasury.
158



(c)    All maintenance programs and expenses must receive the prior approval of the
Management Committee
159



Attachment B
Review of Road Management and Finance in Djibouti
COMMERCIALIZATION OF THE ROAD SECTOR
Support for the Fee-for-Service Principle
There is a recognition in Government that alternative funding sources, other than relying on annual
budget appropriations, need to be developed and adopted. Indeed, the establishment of the Road Fund on
1S" February 2000 is a step in that direction. Moreover, proposals from the previous and current Minister
of Transport support the principle of road maintenance cost recovery from road users. However, the
approach appears to be a gradualist one, which has started with a Road Fund that initially focuses on
charges on transit traffic only. This principle is proposed to be extended to cover all roads and to possibly
have two road funds, one for urban roads and one for other national roads.
Realization and Implementation of Policy Proposals
Notwithstanding the proposals made in the past to restructure the management and financing of roads in
Djibouti, these proposals need to be transformed into practical achievement. This will require strict
adherence to the principles of effective governance in the operation of a system of road user charges. If
the problems of the past are to be redressed as regards lack of effective maintenance to preserve
substantial investments made mostly by donors in rehabilitating existing roads, then there must be an
assurance that sooner rather than later a comprehensive system of cost recovery in the roads sector is
established, together with the institutional mechanisms required to ensure the transparent and effective
management of the funds generated, and their guaranteed use on road maintenance programs.
Cost Recovery Options
Government needs to consider several different ways of recovering road maintenance costs from road
users, together with several levels of cost recovery. The choice will depend on practical considerations -
the respective roles of national and municipal authorities, the likely response of users, the reforms in road
management that are realistic - as much as the costs that are attributed to different road users and their
link with charging mechanisms.
In general, the system of road user charges that should be considered will aim:
(a)   to make road users face the economic consequences of their use of roads, with charges
reflecting the costs they cause to the network; and
(b)   to establish a source of finance that will allow road operations and maintenance to be
funded on a sustainable basis.
The Link Between User Charges and Better Roads
In designing the cost recovery system, the Government should endeavor to create a link between what
road users are willing to pay, what is spent on roads, and the quality of roads that results. By this way a
quasi-market would encourage users to demand value-for-money and impose budget discipline on the
road agency.
Other components of the system would be:
160



(a)    A more commercially-minded, customer-oriented road authority that is both responsive
and accountable to road users for the efficiency of its spending and the resulting quality
of the road network;
(b)    as much competition as possible among suppliers of road construction and maintenance
services inputs, to reduce their costs; and
(c)    a system of planning, supervision and monitoring which gives users and other
stakeholders - not just the road authority and Government - a role in influencing road
spending levels and priorities.
Existing Road user Charges, Fees and Taxes
Total Government receipts from road users for ownership and use of vehicles (import taxes on vehicles,
and parts, stamp duty, insurance tax, motor fuel and lubricants tax, etc) are estimated by the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport at 2 to 2.5 billion FDJ annually. Thus, road users already pay a substantial
amount of various taxes which significantly exceeds maintenance requirements. This raises important
practical questions about how revenue from road users should be raised in future - by imposing additional
levies or ring-fencing a portion of the various taxes for a dedicated road fund. In other countries where
road users contribute relatively little towards road maintenance funding, dedicated road funds have been
established. Where road users already contribute significantly to road maintenance funding, a portion of
the taxes paid can be ring-fenced for this purpose.
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF MAINTENANCE FINANCES
Ensuring Effective Road Maintenance
There should be mechanisms in place to ensure that revenue collected from road users result in an
efficient, optimal program of maintenance. Users will not be willing to incur cost-recovery charges. if
better roads do not result. This will require the establishment of a simple Road Management System,
which will allow a rational, needs-based maintenance plan to be produced. In addition, it will be
necessary to put in place the following:
(a)    cast-iron procedures for efficient management of funds collected from user charges, and
for protecting them from alternative budget claims;
(b)    an agreed, rational basis for allocating the proceeds among maintenance works, based on
a regularly updated annual maintenance plan which maximizes economic return from
expenditure;
(c)    a capable, efficient and fully accountable road authority which is able to draw on a
competitive contracting industry for cost-effective inputs;
(d)   systems and procedures for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of maintenance
operations in terms of their impacts not just on road conditions but also on user costs;
and, most importantly; and
(e)    a system of supervision and control which allows user representatives to have a say in
how much should be spent on road maintenance and the level of charges needed to
finance it.
161



Other measures to ensure the effective road maintenance include:
(a)    private sector participation in the management and auditing of the funds derived from
road user charges;
(b)    alternative arrangements for the delivery of road maintenance services, including
possibly the establishment of a commercialized road authority with greater responsibility
- and accountability - for the performance of the network; and
(c)    strict controls over the use of maintenance funds, including reporting requirements that
include information on the effectiveness of road maintenance in reducing user costs and
the value for money derived from road user charges.
162



EDS
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects In the IBRD/IDA
Lending Program
Country:                                       Project ID No.:
DJIBOUTI                                       P069930
Project Name:
INTERNATIONAL ROAD CORRIDOR
REHABILITATION
Appraisal Date:                                IBRD Amount (US$m):
April 15, 2000
Board Date:                                    IDA Amount (US$m):
June 22, 2000                                   15
Managing Division:                             Sector:
MNSID                                          TH - Highways; TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument:                            Status:
Specific Investment Loan (SIL)                 Preparation
Date for receipt of EA report by Bank:         Date Assigned:
03/08/2000                                     March 27, 2000
EA Category: B
Date data sheet prepared/updated:
05/23/2000
Major Project Components:
The project would include the following main activities:
(a) a low cost temporary improvement of National Road #1, between Dikhil and Galafi, and subsequent
maintenance of this section for 3-4 years;(b) repairs of National Road #1, between the turnoff to Arta and
Dikhil (88 kms), and routine maintenance for 3-4 years after improvements and repair works have been
undertaken; (c) procurement of equipment for axle load control and to make plant pool operational; and
(d) technical assistance. The TA component would facilitate development of trade related services in
Djibouti, assist the Roads Department in undertaking the project within a very short time frame and
include a road safety program. Project will include an HIV/AIDS education and outreach program. If
practical, the project would also implement agreed policy and institutional recommendations of an EU
financed study and undertake various other studies to be agreed upon.
Project Location: (besides geographic location, information about the key environmental characteristics of the
area likely to be affected by the project, and proximity of any protected areas or sites or critical natural habitats)
Major Environmental Issues: (identified or suspected in project)
No major environmental issues are anticipated for this project, since it represents rehabilitation of an
existing road only, with no changes in the alignment. There are some minor impacts associated with
repair and upgrading of the road, including: removal and disposal of waste materials from road bed and
disposal of containers of bitumen and other types of sealers; risk of localized pollution of land and soils
from disposal of tires, broken parts, waste fuel, and used lubricants for heavy machinery and trucks
engaged in construction; temporary aggravation of noise and dust levels during construction; and
potential damage to local vegetation by provision of temporary bypass roads during construction. It is not



2
EDS
anticipated that induced demand will be a significant short-term factor from an economic or
environmental perspective since the road has historically had very little passenger travel, and the freight
traffic between Djibouti and Addis (predominantly petroleum products, fertilizer, and food aid) is highly
inelastic to either travel time or cost.
Other Environmental Issues: (of lesser scope associated with project)
The proposed project does not include involuntary resettlement or land acquisition since all construction
will be within the existing road alignments and construction materials will be taken from previously
developed sites which are government owned. The project area does not include any protected areas or
areas of critical natural habitat. It is not anticipated that any archaeological, historical or sacred sites
would be affected by the proposed project.
Proposed Actions: (to mitigate environmental issues described above)
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared for the proposed project that includes
specific measures to mitigate potential construction and operation period impacts and to address road
safety issues. Key activities in the EMP would include: contract requirements for proper management of
construction waste; control measures for waste fuel, oil and lubricants; reduction of noise and dust levels;
and rehabilitation of areas used for bypass roads and construction materials. The plan includes measures
for improvement and monitoring of road safety. Provisions have also been made for use of "chance find
procedures" for buried or unrecorded archaeological and historical sites. The EMP has been prepared in
cooperation with the Ministry of Habitat, Urban Development, Environment and Territorial Planning
(MOE) and the Higher Institute for Scientific and Technical Studies and Research (ISERST) which is
responsible for cultural heritage.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (presents reasons for environmental category selected
and explanation of any changes from initial classification, including whether any changes relate to alternatives)
The environmental category is justified, since the project represents rehabilitation of an existing road
only, with no changes in the alignment. The potential impacts of project supported activities are well
known and can be effectively addressed through engineering design, low cost mitigation measures and
proper construction monitoring. Construction contracts will include specific environmental provisions
and contractors will receive a briefing concerning these requirements. An archaeologist from ISERST
will conduct on-site inspections during major earth moving and materials collection activities and will
monitor the use of archaeological "chance find" procedures by contractors.
Reporting Schedule: (Category A EA report: Start-up date, date for first draft, and current status. Category B: Is
there a separate environmental analysis? If yes,when is it due?)
Start-up date February 2000
Date for first draft April 2000
Current status May 2000 - Environmental Management Plan Completed
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted and,
where EA reports were made public locally, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA report, etc.)
A field based review was conducted by Bank environmental staff in February 2000 with the participation
of senior MOE representatives. Addidtional site visits were made by Bank and MOE staff in April and
May 2000. This included site visits to all areas proposed for improvements under the project. The visit



3
EDS
confirmed that the potential environmental impacts associated with the proposed road rehabilitation
activities would be limited in scope and duration. Consultations with stakeholders from national and
local government, embassies and international organizations, applied research institutes, private sector
and nongovernmental organizations have been conducted in Djibouti City and in the project area. The
Borrower has made the Environmental Management Plan available in English and French within Djibouti
and it has been made available through the InfoShop.
Signed by: George Tharakan    K   1k       (Sector Manager)
Signed by: ,^ean-Claude Vlli    Sect or Director)
Signed byAherif Arif, MNSRII y I'   (Head, Regional Environment Sectoral Unit)
by:I~herifArif, MNS



IBRD 30713
4200'                DJIBOUTI         4230'                                  43'00--
INTERNATIONAL ROAD
CORRIDOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
33 33  Road Improvements Under the Project                                      r
-     Paved Roads
12-30'     Improved Earth Roads
----Main Tracks (National)             /2022            ERITREA    C.J
* Other Tracks
Railroad                          j      ,                        ,.
4    International Airport            j       -=    .                 ddato    9
+   Airfields and Airstrips   j                                   /
Drinking Water
71287 Spot Elevations in Meters                            /OBLOC
o   Selected Villages and Towns,)
7    District Capitals       /
S9    National Capitals     j       .                     '
District Boundaries   " MI
International      /
Boundaries  r,;
-12.00                   /:
/                    /                                     7 -a v 131378
ETHIOPIA   /A1694,                            D      I ; S$,, A
A7388                   5,"
O /         kYo~~~ ~~~b6oki       ---            @                         B.
,   '   {        5   BDBBHS6<,,                            SS'     <                ' ./               a,g3,~~~~~,,,,,w 
\ f v>r < <l Hol - - / ~SOMALIA
H   - - -  +  0 5   \                   >>'$$    V  f    S,.B ,yj,><        .  /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ths mop -wo5 - poyedvth.d 
/    MopD -ng LI, o The \i t.fT ook-IdB./
n       t                        .Mouloud   /   & 781, Sableh  Ai C                        i          nhe bondgrnsenA cor-, donao-m,-a-s
"5- ;h  ''       / ,/hi amap do n    o- r heport of
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n n ETHIOPI                                        ,nan,io shown3s  anE;85
eh'f,                     33$$ /  oa19IOsoOytn 55fr
+                                                                       0 Al 20  30  4o*n-or,es
Dikhil 423$                                    300      Adi7287  fAddc    /
I'  As                                                                /
ETHIOPIA/ 
KILOMETERS 0    10     20     30      40     50
MILES 0         10         20          30                                               DOre
42~00'                                 42'~30'                                A43,n00o
JUNE 9('C



