Page  1
May 5, 2000
H.E. Yacin Elmi Bouh
Minister of Economy, Finance
  and Planning
Ministry of Economy, Finance
  and Planning
Djibouti, Republic of Djibouti
Re:
PHRD Grant for the Emergency Rehabilitation Project
Grant No. TF026323                                                      
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association 
(the Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator 
of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
five hundred two thousand United States dollars (US$502,000) (the Grant) to 
the Republic of Djibouti (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request 
that the Association carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter 
Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Director
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
By /s/ Yacin Elmi Bouh
Date:
10/05/2000                 
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
The objective of this proposed technical assistance program is to allow 
Page  2
a speedy preparation of the emergency rehabilitation project (the “Project”) 
and to facilitate early implementation of the civil works components. The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
carrying out technical studies of the road to be rehabilitated 
in order to determine costs and factors affecting the technical feasibility 
of the Project, including a Type B project environmental and social 
assessment according to the Association guidelines for emergency projects.  
Outputs: Preliminary Engineering Report and Environmental and Social 
Assessment Report, estimated to cost US$175,000;
(b)
evaluating the economic and financial feasibility of the road 
improvement, with particular attention to the distribution of benefits 
between Ethiopia and Djibouti, and ways to influence this distribution in 
favor of Djibouti (e.g. streamlining road cost recovery, port pricing and 
financing arrangements for the newly established road maintenance fund); the 
evaluation will also include employment creation linked to the international 
transit function and ascertain conditions under which this creation could be 
maximized; corresponding findings will explicitly be taken into account in 
the economic evaluation; shadow pricing techniques will be used in 
calculations.  Outputs:  Economic and Financial Feasibility Report and 
Facilitation of Trade-related Employment Generation Report, estimated to cost 
US$76,000;
(c)
analyzing conditions for successful implementation of a 
design-build and a design-build-maintain contracting in Djibouti; the 
consultants will carefully analyze technical and financial risks associated 
with this operation and prepare typical (model) tender documents, generalized 
contract forms and manuals for bid evaluation for projects in general terms, 
designed to minimize and distribute these risks between a contractor and a 
road’s department.  Particular attention will be paid to contract length, 
payment mechanisms, warranties, defects liability period, definition of road 
performance standards, ways to monitor them and penalty arrangements for 
non-conforming to performance targets.  Outputs: Report on design-build and 
design-build-maintain contracting, estimated to cost US$75,000;
(d)
preparing a program for technical assistance to strengthen the 
capacity of the Roads Department of the Ministry of Transport to manage the 
road network in particular routine road maintenance contracts.  This program 
would also include assistance to the Roads Department to consider the 
establishment of a more autonomous National Roads Authority, further develop 
systems and procedures related to the introduction of a Road Maintenance Fund 
and develop supplier–client arrangements between the Road Maintenance Fund, 
the Roads Authority and the contracting industry.  Outputs:  Institutional 
Development Report; Training Needs Assessment Study Report, estimated to cost 
US$50,000; and
(e)
identifying and defining the detailed contents of a core trade 
and transport facilitation program for implementation under the Project, 
including the review of performance of all service providers involved in 
moving international freight along the transport chain using relevant 
international comparators, prevailing customs and association practices will 
be analyzed and a training needs assessment will be carried out.  An action 
plan will then be worked out, including creation of incentives to improve 
performance, capacity building at weak links of the transport chain, training 
of professionals, development of the World Bank Institute techniques and 
related equipment and training.  The overall objectives of this component are 
to ease trade and transport, facilitate and improve traffic operations, and 
improve the institutional environment in which all service providers and 
government agencies perform. Part of this assignment would include 
preparation of Terms of Reference for technical assistance to strengthen the 
capacity of the Land Transport Department of the Ministry of Transport. 
Output:  Trade and Transport Facilitation Study Report, estimated to cost 
US$126,000.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for 
Page  3
the Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the 
Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent 
necessary to permit the Association to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient 
shall indemnify the Association against any costs or liabilities incurred by 
the Association as a result of claims against the Association in connection 
with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or 
willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than October 31, 2000 or 
such later date as the Association may establish by notice to the Recipient 
(the Closing Date).  Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the 
Grant shall be used to fund Activities after Association approval of 
financing for the Project, and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond 
the expected date of such approval.  After the Closing Date, the Association 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of the Association and shall be governed, except as 
otherwise decided by the Association, after consultation with the Recipient, 
by the provisions of the attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of the Republic of Djibouti, on the Consultants or 
any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to 
terminate the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Association may at any time suspend or, after consultation with 
the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds 
for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations 
under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Djibouti, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development 
credit agreement with the Association shall have been suspended. The 
Association may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds if: (a) the Association has decided, at any time after consultation 
with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Association’s assistance in the 
financing of the Project.
8.
The Association is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and 
shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the 
Association pursuant to this Agreement. 
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 
1997 (the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Attachment.
2.
Except as otherwise provided in Sections (3), (4), and (5) hereinafter, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the 
Administrative Manual, of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines applicable 
to Quality- and Cost-based Selection of Consultants.
Page  4
3.
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract 
for consulting firms, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the 
Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines (Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications and/or Least-Cost 
Selection).
4.
Services estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent, may be 
procured on a single-source basis, as permitted under paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which are 
consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
