Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2392-PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
December 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribufton and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Balboa (B/.1)
US$1   =    B/.1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins.
The U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
UNIT AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2        0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km )        0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (m ton)       =    1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
APN          Autoridad Portuaria Nacional
BLADEX       Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones, S.A.
(Latin American Export Bank)
BNP          Banco Nacional de Panama
CAT          Certificado de Abono Tributario
(Tax Rebate Certificate)
COFINA       Corporacion Financiera Nacional
IDAAN        Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IRHE         Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion
LIBOR        London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
NICI         Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MPEP         Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
OPIC         US Overseas Private Investment Corporation
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Corporacion Financiera Nacional (COFINA)
Guarantor;                   Republic of Panama
Amount-                      US$15 million equivalent
Terms:                       Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 7.35 percent per annum
Relending Terms:             COFINA would relend the proceeds of the proposed
loan on terms of up to 15 years, including a grace
period of up to three years. Subloans would carry
an interest rate of at least 10 percent per annum
with the exception of up to US$1 million which
would be relent to the Government at 7.35 percent
per annum.
Project Description         The proposed project would assist the Government in
its efforts to stimulate the recovery of private
investment and to promote the role of the financial
sector in the development of the country. The
project would finance the estimated foreign exchange
component of subloans and equity investments for
the acquisition of fixed assets and permanent
working capital by productive private and public
sector, enterprises in the manufacturing, service
and tourism sectors. COFINA would be permitted to
relend to the Government up to US$1 million to
support a small-scale industry lending program
after the Bank has reviewed and satisfied itself
on the scope of the program and the nature of the
on-lending arrangements. In addition, the project
would provide financing for a training program for
COFINA's staff.
The risks presented by the project are acceptable.
Although COFINA is a new institution with a rela-
tively inexperienced staff, the technical assistance
component of the proposed loan would assist COFINA
in improving its professional expertise. COFINA
already has sufficient subprojects at an advanced
stage in its pipeline to fully utilize the proceeds
of the proposed loan. The Bank would thoroughly
review the small scale industry program prior
to authorizing COFINA to on-lend for it.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Details of COFINA's projected finances are as
follows:
1978-1980          %
Resource Requirement:                    (US$ million)
Loan commitments                             36.0             81.0
Equity investments                            5.6             13.0
Liquidity                                     2.7              6.0
Total                                     44.3           100.0
Financing Plan:
New equity and internally
generated funds                             9.4            21.0
Government loan                               1.5              3.0
IBRD loan                                    15.0             34.0
Other borrowing                              18.4             42.0
Total                                     44.3           100.0
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Financial Results:               ------------- (us$'000) ------------
Income                            691   1,578   2,855   4,478   6,454
Expenses                          993   1,630   2,704   4,177   5,533
Net Income                        (302)    (52)    151       301     921
Financial Position:              ----------- (US$ million) ----------
Total assets                     13.7    24.9    40.2    57.1    73.4
Financed by:
Debt                        4.0    13.2    26.2    40.4    53.1
Capital and Reserves        9.7    11.7    14.0    16.7    20.3
debt/equity ratio (including
contingent liabilities)       1.4:1   2.3:1   3.2:1   3.5:1   3.7:1
Free Limit:       $500,000 for individual subloans;
$6 million aggregate free limit.
Debt Covenant:   Maximum debt/equity ratio of 5:1.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                                IBRD Fiscal Year
1979      1980       1981       1982
(US$ million)
Annual           4.0        6.5        3.1        1.4
Cumulative       4.0       10.5       13.6       15.0
Staff Appraisal Report:       2217-PAN, of November 15, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL (COFINA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
4   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (COFINA) with the guarantee of
the Republic of Panama for the equivalent of US$15 million to help finance
a Development Banking Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including a three-year grace period, with interest at 7.35 percent per annum.
COFINA would relend the proceeds of the proposed loan on terms of up to
15 years including a grace period of up to three years. Subloans would carry
an interest rate of at least 10 percent per annum with the exception of up to
US$1 million which would be relent to the Government at 7.35 percent to
finance a small-scale industry program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Panama (1066a-PAN) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 17, 1976. An economic mission visited the country
in June 1978, and is preparing its report. This report incorporates the pre-
liminary findings of that mission. Country data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.        Between 1955 and 1973 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at an average
annual rate of 7 percent. The leading sectors--services, manufacturing, and
construction--were stimulated by the buoyancy of world trade, the emergence of
Panama as a regional bankiLng center, and a strategy of industrial import substi-
tution. In contrast, the average annual rate of growth of GDP between 1973 and
1977 has been only marginally above 1 percent, implying a fall of 5.4 percent
in per capita GDP over the four-year period. Panama's open economy was seriously
affected by the sharp rise in petroleum prices after 1973 and by the recession
in world trade which followed in 1974-75. Agriculture suffered from severe
droughts in 1976 and 1977. The collapse of an urban building boom after 1973,
and the uncertainty cause,d by protracted Canal Treaty negotiations also retarded
growth. Finally, enforcement of a new Labor Code in 1972, which was perceived
by entrepreneurs to unduly limit their ability to manage, price controls and
direct government involvement in production were also partly responsible for
the severe retrenchment in private investment between 1973 and 1977.
4.        The Government increased public investment, both for its short-term
expansionary effect and with the longer term purpose of providing new opportuni-
ties for the private sector and to increase exports. But increased public
sector outlays unmatched by commensurate growth in revenues led to rapid growth
in public sector deficits and to a high level of external borrowing, mainly from
commercial banks. Notwithstanding the Government's efforts to stimulate the
economy, slow growth persisted and led to increased unemployment; unofficial
estimates of urban unemployment, which include workers who were not actively
searching for a job, suggest a figure of 16 percent in 1977. A temporary
US$20 million government emergency program has been put into effect to provide
employment to some 20,000 people.



- 2 -
5.        Before 1968, the public sector's role in the economy was relatively
small. The share of total public expenditure in GDP did not exceed 17 percent;
most outlays were in the traditional areas of education, health, and security;
and public programs emphasized urban areas. The situation changed drastically
when the Revolutionary Government assumed power in 1968. Its three main
concerns were the elimination of rural poverty, greater national control
over the economy, including the Panama Canal, and creation of new sources of
economic growth and exports. Social programs in health and education were
extended to most areas, and an agrarian reform program was initiated. Major
investments were undertaken in transportation, tourism, international commer-
cial infrastructure, water, sewerage, and power to provide support for new
private activities. Power and part of telecommunications were nationalized.
State ownership was extended into export crops such as sugar, citrus, and
bananas and into the cement and tourism industries. Self-sufficiency in basic
foodstuffs such as rice, corn, and beans was accorded high priority.
6.        While the Government's social programs had considerable success, its
production programs produced mixed results. The rural population with access
to potable water increased from 43 percent in 1970 to 63 percent in 1976.
One-third of the population was enrolled in schools of all types by 1978
compared to less than a quarter of the population in 1968. Infant mortality
declined by 20 percent between 1968 and 1976 and fertility rates fell from
131.3 per thousand in 1971 to 114.0 per thousand in 1975. On the other hand,
production programs in agriculture have led to self-sufficiency in rice, but
have had less impact on the output of corn, beans and beef. Similarly, the
Government's enterprises have served to increase output but in most cases
have operated unprofitably. Some of the internationally-oriented projects,
such as banking and the Free Zone, have been successful and others are still
being implemented.
7.        Since 1975, the Government has attributed increasing importance
to restoring the confidence of the private sector. Since 1976, it has empha-
sized measures to strengthen public finances. Public sector savings increased
from 0.1 percent of GDP in 1976 to 1.6 percent in 1977, partly as a result
of new taxes and partly due to a freeze of civil service salaries. New taxes
(including a 5 percent value added tax) raised the Central Government's
current revenues from 14 percent of GDP in 1976 to 15.7 percent in 1977.
Increases in utility rates were also introduced, and helped to hold the public
sector deficit to 13.9 percent of GDP in 1977 compared to over 16 percent in
1976. Over two thirds of US$600 million recently borrowed from commercial
banks was used to refinance outstanding loans. This has reduced service on
Central Government debt from a projected 36 percent of Central Government
revenues to a projected 29 percent in 1979, and has substantially improved the
government's debt profile. The public sector deficit may fall to 10 percent
of GDP in 1978. A second tranche standby agreement with the IMF was signed in
July 1978.
8.        The Government has sustained an active dialogue with businessmen and
has provided increased fiscal incentives for investment, employment, and non-
traditional exports. In addition, the Labor Code has been modified: labor
contracts in existence in 1977 were extended for two years, and strikes and
collective bargaining were suspended over the same period and replaced by
compulsory arbitration of labor conflicts. A policy of Government participa-
tion in productive enterprises was reversed in 1977. Also, the Government



has established a development finance company, the Corporacion Financiera
Nacional (COFINA), which will help to finance private industrial, tourism
and commercial projects. The restoration of confidence and the recovery of
private investment will depend on the response to these new policies as well
as on the impact of the new Canal Treaty.
9.        The new Canal Treaty was signed on September 7, 1977 and instruments
of ratification were exchanged on June 16, 1978. Formal implementation begins
October 1, 1979 and ends December 31, 1999 when the Canal and all ancillary
facilities revert to Panama. The immediate financial benefits to Panama
include net fiscal receipts of about US$60 million per year. The United
States has also pledged its best efforts to arrange up to US$200 million in
suppliers' credits; up to US$75 million in guarantees under a USAID housing
program; and a guarantee from the U.S. Overseas Private Investment Corporation
(OPIC) which will permit up to US$20 million in borrowings for development
finance in United States commercial markets. Assets reverting to Panama in
1979 include the three ports of Balboa, Cristobal, and Coco Solo, the railroad
from Balboa to Cristobal, two unused airfields, much valuable land, and most
service outlets of the PaLnama Canal Company's supply division.
10.       The outlook for recovery and future growth of the Panamanian economy
has been enhanced by these recent developments. The new Treaty, Panama's
expanded infrastructure and relatively skilled human resources will permit
Panama to both deepen and diversify economic activities that can successfully
exploit its unique geographical/transport advantages. Studies will be
made to determine how best to use Panama's locational advantage to expand
industrial and service extports by using the reverted Canal Zone area.
Efforts are being made to realize the potential for increased exports of
bananas, grass-fed beef, fresh fruit, cocoa, and coffee, and for replacing
imports of vegetable oils and dairy products by local production. In addition,
the Government is considering the exploitation of Panama's copper deposits.
Although the medium term outlook now seems more favorable, certain critical
issues such as the relative roles of the public and private sectors, the
climate for private investment, market risks in copper, and the rate of growth
of the external debt will continue to require the attention of policy makers.
11.       At the end of 1977, Panama's disbursed external public debt of
US$1,378 million was 61 percent of GDP. Loans from financial institutions and
suppliers' credits accounted for 68 percent; the remainder was almost evenly
divided between bilateral and multilateral loan sources. Debt due the World
Bank amounts to only 7.2 percent of the total. Despite the recent refinancing
operation (see paragraph 7) debt service on the public debt still absorbs
a substantial proportion of Central Government revenues. Preliminary
projections indicate that public sector capital outlays may have to be reduced
as a percent of GDP during the 1980's in order to avoid exacerbation of the
external public debt burden. The Government is still in the process of
considering what levels of public sector investment can be financed in the
1980's, the composition of a future investment program that includes the new
opportunities presented by the Canal Treaty, and the timing and financial
structure of a US$1.6 billion copper project of which the Government would be
the major shareholder. Likewise of crucial importance, will be the Government's



- 4 -
ability to prevent expectations aroused by the Canal Treaty from resulting
in inflationary wage increases. Such increases would reduce public sector
savings and adversely affect private investment.
12.       To date, the Government has taken steps to cope with the problems
facing the country, specially rural poverty, recession in private investment,
and the high level of external debt. However, the Bank will continue to
monitor closely the issues mentioned in the preceding paragraph which are
critical to the Government's efforts at strengthening the public finances and
stimulating private investment. The IMF second-tranche standby program, which
expires in December, will likely be renegotiated for the next year.  On the basis
of recent performance and of the more favorable outlook for growth, Panama can
be regarded as creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       The Bank has to date made sixteen loans to Panama totalling US$223.6
million. Of these, eight loans for US$83.4 million, are fully disbursed (two
for roads totalling US$13 million; one for an airport project for US$20 million;
three for agriculture totalling US$4.4 million, and two for power for US$46
million). Ongoing projects include two livestock credit projects; a power
transmission project and a power generation and transmission project; a fishing
port project; a water supply and sewerage project; a fisheries project; and a
highway maintenance project. Execution of Bank-financed projects has, on the
whole, been satisfactory, although delays and cost overruns occurred particu-
larly with respect to the Tocumen Airport and the Second Power Projects. The
causes of delay have been overcome and the overruns have been financed with
the assistance of long-term loans from the Venezuelan Investment Fund.
14.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a commitment
in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo
Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new
international hotel. This project was satisfactorily completed. The second
is a commitment approved by the Executive Directors in December 1977 to lend
US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios de Panama, S.A.,
the first glass container factory in Panama. The project is under construction
and should be completed in the first quarter of 1980. The third is a commit-
ment to acquire US$2.5 million in equity in the Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones (BLADEX), a regional export bank proposed and promoted by the
Government of Panama. BLADEX was incorporated in Panama in January 1978 and
IFC's participation as a shareholder was approved in July 1978. Central banks
and commercial banks in Latin America, as well as many of the largest inter-
national commercial banks are shareholders of BLADEX. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of October 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy (embodied in the 1976-80 National Development Plan)
particularly as regards the further development of Panama's service industries
and the diversification of production and exports. Specifically, the Bank



assists those sectors in which it can make a special contribution in terms of
(i) developing policies and institutions; (ii) removing infrastructure bottle-
necks, and (iii) better utilizing the country's natural resources. The project
now under consideration would result in an increasing role for Panama's finan-
cial market in the development process and would support the Government's
efforts to promote private investment in the productive sectors. Also under
consideration are a tropical tree crop development project which would streng-
then agrarian reform settlements and provide employment to small farmers
and rural labor and a power distribution project. We are currently working
with the Government on thLe identification of an urban project in Colon,
Panama's second largest city. In our future lending activities in Panama, we
hope to assist the Government to address the needs which will result from the
transfer to Panama of the areas adjacent to the Canal.
16.       The principal sources of official external financing to Panama in
the past are summarized below:
Table 1: External Assistance to Panama, 1953-77
(US$ million)
IBRD        IDB         USAID
Commitments 1953-68                              18.0 /1      37.2         72.2
Commitments 1969-78 (September)                 205.6        295.0        221.2
223.6       332.2        293.4
Total Commitments by Sector 1953-78
Power                                         118.0         98.0           -
Education and Health                             -          30.4         42.3
Agriculture, Fisheries, and Livestock          24.6         33.5         60.9
Industry                                         -           4.0          9.1
Water and Sewerage                             12.0         21.3         36.0
Housing                                          -          16.6         35.2
Transport                                      69.0         99.5         82.5 /2
Other                                            -          28.9         27.4
Total           223.6        332.2        293.4
/1   Excluding $0.5 million which was cancelled (Loan 86-PAN of 1953 for
agricultural machinery).
/2   Including a $60 million grant from the U.S. Government for
completion of the Darien Gap portion of the Pan-American Highway.
17.       Both the USAID and the IDB have lent heavily for agriculture and for
social services (including family planning in the case of USAID). Past lending
patterns are likely to persist, at least as regards the social services,
because the Government prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for those
sectors, while utilizing assistance received on harder terms for projects
which are expected to result in more immediate economic benefits. In addition
to agriculture and social services, the IDB is financing road construction and
tourism, and participated with the Bank in the financing of the Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project.



-6-
18.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 7.2 percent at the end of 1977 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service was 5 percent. These percentages are
expected to drop slightly in the 1980's.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
19.       Until some twenty years ago, the manufacturing sector in Panama
developed slowly. Non-agricultural economic activities consisted mainly of
commerce with the Canal Zone and that generated by the international traffic
flowing through the Canal. Subsequently, investors were attracted to the
sector by industrial incentives and a favorable investment climate. The
manufacturing sector grew at an average annual rate of over 10 percent in
1960-70. The sector experienced a slowdown in growth in the 1970's and a
decline after 1974, although signs of recovery are now becoming apparent.
The slowdown was due to a number of factors, including exhaustion of the first
phase of the import-substitution process, concern about government policies
toward the private sector, uncertain prospects of the Canal Treaty and the
collapse of a private construction boom. Furthermore, domestic demand was
dampened as Panama was hit by the successive external shocks of increased fuel
costs, world inflation, and recession.  The sector's share in GDP, which had
reached a high of 15.9 percent in 1970, declined to 14.9 percent in 1975. In
contrast, the service sector (commerce; transport; warehousing; and banking,
insurance and other financial services) continued to grow and to dominate the
economy, reaching a 49 percent share of GDP in 1975. Major elements in this
growth were the establishment of the Colon Free Zone in 1953 and the liberal
banking legislation approved in 1970. Tourism has also become increasingly
important in the seventies, partly spurred by the sharp increase in business-
men travelling to Panama. The Government has now begun some large investments
designed to promote resort tourism, and encourage business travellers to
extend their stay in Panama. To this end, it is rehabilitating the colonial
part of Panama city and building a convention center near the city.
20.       The structure of manufacturing in Panama has changed little since
1960. In 1975, consumer goods industries accounted for about two-thirds of
total output in manufacturing followed by construction materials with
23 percent.  Large industrial firms (100 or more employees) produced 58
percent of manufacturing output and accounted for 44 percent of industrial
employment. Manufacturing is concentrated in Panama City (62 percent of
industrial establishments), with smaller industrial centers located in Colon
and in the David/Chiriqui area in Western Panama.
21.       Investment in manufacturing increased steadily from 1960 to a peak
in 1974 of 5 percent of GDP (US$91.2 million), then declined to less than
3 percent of GDP during 1975-76 and probably declined further in 1977. Foreign
direct investment, which is one of the major components of private investment
in manufacturing, followed a similar pattern, declining sharply after reaching
a high in 1974 of US$37.3 million in net annual investment.



- 7 -
22.       During the 1960's, when manufacturing activity was growing, the
sector's share of total ,employment increased from 7.3 percent to 10.3 percent.
This growth in employment, added to even greater increases in the services
sector, offset a long-term downward trend in agricultural employment. With
the slowdown in manufacturing activity in the 1970's, growth in manufacturing
employment stagnated, while employment in the service and commerce sectors
continued to increase. A major objective in the government's current efforts
to promote the manufacturing sector is to reestablish its capacity to provide
significant additional eimployment opportunities.
23.       While industriies producing for the local market stagnated, exports
of manufactured products (excluding refined sugar) increased from US$3 million
in 1970 to US$29 million in 1976 and represented 13 percent of total exports
(as compared to less thaa 3 percent in 1970). The major manufactured exports
are food products and clothing, exported primarily to the United States and
Western Europe. Trade with the Central American Common Market countries under
bilateral agreements has grown significantly since 1970, and is expected to
continue growing. Exports from the Colon Free Zone, predominantly a ware-
housing and transshipment center, exceeded imports by US$100 million in 1977.
Incentives and Protection
24.       The Government has instituted a number of incentives to encourage
industrial production. These can be grouped in three categories. First,
selective import duty exemption on machinery, equipment, spare parts, and raw
materials, and in some cases, exemption from income tax for new import-
substitution and export industries; second, full exemption of import duties
for machinery, equipment and raw materials including fuel, and property
and income tax exemption for industries that locate in certain designated
areas; and third, an export subsidy in the form of a tax payment certificate
equivalent to 20 percent of the domestic value added of eligible non-
traditional exports. Further, modest subsidies have recently been extended
to plants that expand employment by increasing the number of shifts.
25.       Panama has traditionally been a low protection country.  In general,
tariff rates are relatively low except for a few selected categories and
exonerations from import duties under incentive laws have been widely used
(virtually all investments since the end of 1970 have qualified for exemptions).
Quantitative restrictions have become increasingly important in recent years,
but the openness of the economy and the difficulty of administering quotas
have prevented large differences between domestic prices and those prevailing
in international markets. The Government recognizes the need to rationalize
the existing incentive and protection legislation and its administration, and
to this end will undertake a study which would provide guidance in determining
the most effective government policies. The study would also identify areas
in the manufacturing and service industries in which Panama has a comparative
advantage and would include a review of the small-scale industry subsector.
The Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MPEP) and COFINA have indicated
that they would be prepared to finance and carry out such a study. The first
phase, which would involve a review and updating of existing studies to
establish priorities for further investigation, is expected to be completed by



- 8 -
December 31, 1979. The Bank would, in connection with the proposed project:
(i) help the Government prepare draft terms of reference for the survey; and
(ii) follow up closely on its preparation and implementation in connection
with the Bank's normal project, sector and economic work.
The Financial Sector
26.       Panama's monetary and financial system is unique in Latin America.
There is no Central Bank and the US dollar is the country's unit of exchange.
Money supply is directly related to Panama's balance of payments and its
ability to borrow externally. As of December 31, 1977, the banking system in
Panama comprised 83 banks with total assets of US$16.5 billion (more than 6
times GDP) reflecting the government s successful efforts to promote Panama as
a regional financial center. The system is predominantly oriented to inter-
national business with off-shore deposits and loans accounting for 92 percent
and 82 percent respectively, of the totals.
27.       The National Banking Commission, established in 1970, supervises two
government banks--the Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP), which engages primarily
in commercial banking operations, and the Caja de Ahorros, a savings bank; 47
private international and Panamanian commercial banks operating under a
general license which empowers them to do business both in and outside Panama;
25 international private banks operating under an off-shore license; and 9
representative offices of international private banks. In addition, there are
three government-owned specialized financial institutions: the Banco Hipotecario
Nacional, a mortgage bank, the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario, an agricultural
development bank, and COFINA, a development finance company. There are also
five private savings and loan banks and numerous small consumer finance
companies. Although no formal stock exchange exists, limited trading in
financial certificates, bonds and stocks is handled by independent brokers
authorized by the National Securities Commission.
28.       As the eurodollar market grew in the late 1960's, Panama's liberal
off-shore banking laws, its use of the US dollar and the absence of foreign
exchange controls attracted some international groups to set up offices
in Panama to handle banking transactions. In 1970, a new banking law was
enacted which created the above-referred Banking Commission, established
government licensing of banks and set minimum standards for operating a
Panamanian office. The new law helped foster the rapid development of Panama
as a regional banking center. Existing banks expanded and many major banks
from North America, Western Europe, Asia and Latin America established offices
or branches. Between 1971 and 1977, as total bank assets increased fourteen-
fold, financial sector employment grew to over 7,000 persons while the sector's
contribution to GDP reached 6.6 percent.
29.       International banking accounts for the main share of the expansion
of banking in Panama. Foreign deposits, including interbank deposits, rose
from US$603 million in 1971 to US$14,006 million in 1977. Although most of
these funds are also placed offshore, principally in loans and interbank
deposits, some are used to finance domestic lending, in part because no



- 9 -
foreign exchange risk is involved. At the end of 1977, domestic loans
(US$1,767 million) exceeded domestic deposits (US$1,195 million) by US$572
million, indicating that Panama has benefited greatly from its growth as a
financial center and ready accessibility to banks with surplus funds.
30.       The banking system has concentrated its domestic lending in the
commercial sector (representing 37 percent of total loans at the end of 1977),
which it prefers because maturities are relatively short and credit analysis
is uncomplicated, the public sector (23 percent of total loans), and the real
estate and construction sector (23 percent of total loans). Lending to manu-
facturing has remained ait about 9 percent of total loans since 1971. In
spite of the ready availability of commercial credit, there is a scarcity of
medium- to long-term credit, particularly for the manufacturing sector, as
banks are generally reluctant to provide term financing for industry. When
credit is available for industry it is given to large well-established enter-
prises. Most manufacturing investment is financed out of retained earnings,
private domestic savings and foreign investment.
31.       The openness of the Panamanian economy and banking system has
resulted in an interest rate structure for deposits and loans which is based
largely on the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for Euro-dollars.
Loans to companies with top credit ratings usually carry adjustable interest
rates, generally 2 percent over LIBOR. On loans to other companies, a fixed
rate of roughly 12-14 percent is normally charged for terms of up to two years.
Longer term loans, when available, usually carry adjustable interest rates
based on LIBOR.
Prospects and Project Implications
32.       The proposed project supports the government's effort to encourage
the development of the country's productive activities and its financial
sector. The strategic geographic location of Panama, the existence of a
relatively developed infrastructure in transportation, communications, and
services, the availability of human resources with potential for acquiring
skills and a growing agricultural base are important factors that favor the
development of the manufacturing sector in Panama and the continued expansion
of the service sector. These advantages suggest that the Government emphasize
the promotion of export-oriented industries, including agro-industries based
on local raw materials. With the growth of business travel to Panama, tourism
development also has potential. An important step the Government has taken
to encourage private investment was the establishment in late 1975 of COFINA,
which is becoming a major instrument in promoting new investment in manufactur-
ing. The project would assist the Government in achieving its objectives by
helping COFINA to implement institutional improvements and by providing
long-term resources. The absence of those resources has constituted a bottle-
neck to the development of manufacturing.
33.       Small-scale industry could play an important role in the Govern-
ment's efforts to strengthen and expand the manufacturing sector, primarily
to serve the domestic market. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MICI)
has a small-scale industrial credit program underway which it plans to expand.



- 10 -
Under the program, which was established in 1965, loans of up to US$15 thousand
are made to small-scale industrial firms to finance fixed assets and working
capital requirements. MICI resources have been provided from Government
budgetary allocations. Loans approved are divided nearly equally between new
enterprises (44 percent) and the expansion of existing ventures (56 percent).
Since the start of operations in June 1965, the default rate of the program
has been low; in mid-1978, only about 7 percent of the US$300 thousand in out-
standing loans were in arrears. The volume of MICI's operations has until
now been modest because of financial and staff constraints.  Under a USAID
urban development program, the MICI small-scale industry credit program will
be expanded and its portfolio widened to include small-scale commercial and
service enterprises.  According to MICI authorities, there is considerable
unsatisfied demand by eligible investors for the small-scale industry credits.
For example, requests are received at the rate of about US$150 thousand a year
in Panama City alone. Under the proposed loan, COFINA would be permitted to
relend to MICI up to US$1 million to help finance the small-scale industry
credit program after it has appraised the program and after receiving approval
of the Bank. The Bank would base its approval on a field evaluation to deter-
mine the adequacy of the program and the on-lending arrangements. In its
review, the Bank would focus, among other things, on the on-lending mechanism
and interest rate to sub-borrowers, on the adequacy of the technical assistance
arrangements under the program and on the criteria for eligibility of sub-
borrowers.
34.       Prospects are good for further enhancement of Panama's standing as
a financial center. The growth in the number of banks and in the volume
of their business confirms the attractiveness of Panama's financial system.
Further development of the system is being encouraged. As discussed in
paragraph 14, above, the Government promoted the creation of a regional
export bank which was incorporated in Panama as the Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones (BLADEX). In addition, the Government is revising its trustee-
ship laws to attract trust companies and also has plans for the creation of
a Latin American banking information clearing house.
35.       COFINA is becoming the principal source of term credit for the
manufacturing sector. The expansion of long-term resources available to
COFINA through the proposed loan will help it to meet unsatisfied demand
for term credit, particularly over the next few years when economic recovery
and resumption of industrial expansion are expected. Furthermore, the banking
sector appears to have potential as a supplier of medium-term funds for
industrial development, particularly for projects promoted and partially
financed by COFINA. The wide acceptance of adjustable interest rates in
the domestic market has fostered a certain willingness of banks to make
medium-term loans (5-7 years) from short-term resources, although only to
prime customers. COFINA has already demonstrated an ability to attract
medium-term lending from several banks through its cofinancing activities.
The magnitude of resources potentially available from the banking system
indicates that cofinancing should continue to be one of COFINA's primary
objectives. The proposed loan would help COFINA to act increasingly as a
catalyst in mobilizing resources through its cofinancing of subprojects mainly
with the international banks represented in Panama, and in the longer run,
through issuance of medium-term bonds.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Panama - Development Banking
Project" (No. 2217-PAN), dated November 15, 1978, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Basic data are given at the beginning
of this report. The project was appraised in May/June 1978 and negotiations
were held in Washington, from October 30 to November 1, 1978. The Borrower
and Guarantor were represented by a delegation led by Messrs. Pedro Rognoni,
General Manager of COFINA and Orlando Caicedo, Chief of Sectoral Planning of
MPEP.
Project Objectives and Descripti on
37.       The main objectives of the project are to:  (a) assist the Government
in building up COFINA as a strong development finance institution which could
effectively promote and finance productive, enterprises principally in manufac-
turing, but also in the tourism and service sectors; (b) help finance COFINA's
long-term development lending by filling about 34 percent of COFINA's total
resource requirements through 1980; (c) help COFINA act increasingly as a
catalyst in mobilizing resources through cofinancing of subprojects mainly
with international banks represented in Panama, and in the longer run, through
issuance of medium-term bonds; and (d) assist the Government in formulating
industrial development policies which would have a favorable impact on employ-
meent and income generation, and help COFINA devise a lending strategy to support
these government objectives.
38.       The proposed Bank loan to COFINA would be used to finance the
estimated foreign exchange component of subloans and equity investments for
the acquisition of fixed assets and permanent working capital by productive
private and public sector enterprises in the manufacturing, service and
tourism sectors. Up to US$100,000 would be available for COFINA to insti-
tute a comprehensive staff training program which would include training
abroad of COFINA's staff, and consulting services (see paragraph 41). COFINA
would also be permitted to relend to MICI up to US$1 million to support its
small-scale industry lending program. The Bank would review in detail the
appraisal of this component by COFINA and would provide assistance and guidance
in its supervision (Section 2.02(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement). The proposed
loan is expected to be committed by June 30, 1981, and disbursed by December 31,
1982.
COFINA
39.       COFINA was established in 1975 as an autonomous institution to
promote and help finance the development of public and private enterprises
in the industrial, tourism and service sectors in line with the priorities
established in the National Development Plan of 1976-80. Its operations began
slowly, constrained in part by the depressed economic climate in 1976-77.
COFINA initially emphasized promotional activities to help overcome the decline
that had taken place in domestic and foreign private investment. Although its
loan and investment portfolio is still quite small, it has become a well known
and respected institution in the local banking system.



- 12 -
Management and Organization
40.       The eight members of COFINA's board of directors include repre-
sentatives from both the public and private sectors. The General Manager,
COFINA's chief executive officer, is also a member of the Board. The Board,
which is appointed by the President of the Republic and is fairly strong and
independent, approves all investments and loan proposals exceeding US$150,000.
COFINA is well managed and its 25 professional staff are organized into four
divisions and two one-man regional offices. The Project Promotion and
Investment Division is responsible for promotional activities and the Credit
Division is responsible for appraisal and supervision. The Finance and
Administration Divisions support the General Manager within their respective
areas of responsibility.
41.       Most of COFINA's staff have appropriate academic qualifications,
but lack adequate experience in development banking and project appraisal.
In order to overcome this weakness, management is preparing a staff training
program which would include training abroad of COFINA staff and the hiring of
consultants. The program which would be partially financed by the proposed
Bank loan will be established and carried out in close coordination with the
Bank (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
Investment Policies
42.       COFINA's Board has approved a comprehensive Statement of Objectives
and Policies which covers, among other things, concentration of risks, equity
investments, portfolio quality, financial and investment limitations, interest
rates and management of special funds. The major financial and investment
limitations contained in the Statement are: (i) maximum total exposure for
any single client is limited to US$4 million equivalent through 1982 (i.e.,
20 percent of projected 1982 capital and reserves) and thereafter to 20 percent
of COFINA's capital and reserves; (ii) individual equity investments are
limited to 20 percent of COFINA's capital and reserves and aggregate equity
investments are limited to 75 percent of capital and reserves; (iii) maximum
project financing will generally not exceed 70 percent of total project costs
and in no case more than 80 percent; and (iv) maximum permissible total debt
is limited to five times capital and reserves. The Statement of Objectives
and Policies also includes COFINA's new policies regarding interest rates (see
paragraph 52) and loss provisions. A substantive change to the Statement of
Objectives and Policies without Bank approval would be an event of default of
the proposed loan (Section 5.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). The Government
would guarantee any financing by COFINA which exceeds its maximum exposure
limits (Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Operations
43.       From the start of its operations in 1976 to May 31, 1978, COFINA
had approved 36 loans amounting to US$7.8 million, issued four guarantees
totalling US$6 million and made nine equity investments amounting to US$1.5
million. As of May 31, 1978, COFINA had disbursed 64 percent of its loans
(US$5 million). COFINA'S lending has concentrated on the manufacturing sector
which accounts for 73 percent of its loans while the tourism sector received



- 13 -
14 percent and the transport sector 13 percent. Equity investments consist of
one large investment (US$1 million) in a petroleum transshipment facility and
six smaller investments, five in manufacturing and one in tourism.
44.       COFINA has actively promoted cofinancing with commercial banks
operating in Panama.  COFINA is a cofinancier and was a key promoter of the
glass factory project in wlaich IFC is participating (see paragraph 14). Of
the total cost of projects financed by COFINA through May 1978, COFINA has
financed approximately 14 percent and commercial banks about 58 percent.  Most
of these cases are parallel financing without any formal arrangements between
COFINA and the cofinancier. However, COFINA has on several occasions entered
*        into specific cofinancing agreements with commercial banks providing full or
partial guarantees or, alternatively, an option to take over the cofinanced
loan after a specified number of years. With adequate long-term resources
assured, COFINA would also consider assuming a larger proportion of the latter
maturities of cofinanced loans.
45.       COFINA's operations have had a significant economic impact.  The
total costs of the 37 projects receiving COFINA's financing are estimated
at about US$79 million. Of this amount, however, one project, an oil transship-
ment facility, accounts for US$45 million, and two other large projects, a
hotel and the above-referred glass factory, for a further US$20 million.
According to COFINA's appraisals, the approved projects are expected to create
about 1,500 new jobs at an average investment cost per job of US$52,000. If
the three largest and relatively atypical projects are excluded, however, the
investment cost per job is reduced to US$13,400.
46.       COFINA's project appraisal reports, although generally satisfactory,
can be improved. While attention is paid to employment generation, foreign
exchange earnings or savings, and project linkages, economic rates of return
have not normally been calculated. In this connection, COFINA has agreed to
calculate internal financial and economic rates of return for all subprojects
over US$500,000 (see paragraph 52). Financial analysis is good, although
appraisal reports are frequently inadequate in their coverage of markets,
prices or management. COFINA's management is aware of these shortcomings and
intends to make improvements, including the setting up of the staff training
program referred to in paragraph 41 above.
Financial Situation
47.       COFINA has been financing its operations almost entirely from its
own equity capital. It has an authorized capital of US$20 million of which
US$8.2 million had been subscribed and paid-in as of May 1978. New equity
contributions from the Government amounting to approximately US$2 million
annually are received by COFINA through the transfer of 0.56 percent of the
value of imports. In addition, COFINA will receive US$5.7 million from the
Government over 10 years in equal annual installments in the form of a 3
percent loan with a 30-year amortization schedule which represents the repay-
ments of a USAID loan made to a private development finance company. COFINA's
outstanding loans and investments amounted to US$6.4 million and accounted
for only 62 percent of assets in May 1978, but are expected to grow rapidly.



- 14 -
By 1982, loans and investments are projected to increase to US$67.6 million,
and account for 92 percent of assets. The Government provides annual subsidies
to support COFINA until it reaches a breakeven level of operations, which is
expected in 1980 as the volume of operations expands and COFINA adopts a new
interest rate policy (see paragraph 52). Through May 1978, COFINA had received
US$1.2 million in such subsidies. A special Government fund finances technical
assistance loans made by COFINA.
48.       COFINA's accounts are at present audited by the Controller General
of the Government of Panama. However, since COFINA is expected to play an
important catalytic role through cofinancing with commercial banks, it would
be essential for it to have an audit of its accounts by independent commercial
auditors. COFINA has agreed to have its accounts audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02(i) of the Loan Agreement).
Cost and Financing
49.       COFINA's pipeline for 1978-80 includes 24 projects with a total cost
of US$94 million. Of these projects, 21 are relatively small, with average
total costs of US$1.5 million. Ten of the 24 projects are joint ventures
between Panamanian and foreign enterprises, with the latter also providing
technology. COFINA plans to approve US$36 million in loans and US$5.6 million
in equity investments. These operations would be financed with the proposed
US$15 million Bank loan, the government loan mentioned in paragraph 47, a
US$20 million private placement of notes guaranteed by the US Overseas Private
Investment Corporation (OPIC), and the balance from equity and internal cash
generation. At present, COFINA plans to place the OPIC-guaranteed notes in
1980 when it expects market conditions to be favorable.
50.       Since the banking system in Panama operates in US dollars it would
be difficult for COFINA, particularly in the case of smaller borrowers, to
lend in the various currencies which are disbursed by the Bank. COFINA's
competitiveness would be significantly reduced if it had to pass on the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan to its borrowers. The Government
has therefore indicated its willingness to assume the foreign exchange risk
between the currencies of disbursement of the Bank loan, the US dollar and
the Balboa (Section 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement).
51.       The proposed loan would carry a fixed amortization schedule (level
principal payment) of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years. A fixed
schedule was requested by COFINA on the ground that this would enable it
to obtain and manage borrowing from other sources more effectively. Projected
cash flows show that COFINA would have adequate liquidity to meet its repay-
ments to the Bank and to other lenders. Subloan terms are expected to vary
from 8 to 13 years averaging about 9 years, including three years of grace.
There would be some rollover of funds, but this would not impose any foreign
exchange risk on COFINA as the Government assumes the full exchange risk. The
rollover funds would be used by COFINA for similar operations in line with its
Statement of Objectives and Policies. The Bank loan would account for only
about one third of COFINA's resource requirements over the next two years.
The availability of rollover funds would not affect COFINA's strategy to
mobilize domestic resources.



- 15 -
On-lending Terms and Conditions
52.       Subloans would be for up to 15 years--they are expected to average
9 years--including a reasonable grace period not to exceed 3 years (Section
2.08(b) of the Loan Agreement). Subloans would be denominated in US dollars.
COFINA's interest rates on all its loans (with the exception of the MICI
subloan and of loans for technical assistance) would be adjusted periodically
to ensure consistency with market rates and COFINA's need for an adequate
interest rate spread over the cost of its funds. The formula used to set
interest rates would be equal to the higher of LIBOR plus 2 percent or COFINA's
average cost of borrowed funds plus 3 percent. The interest rate charged on
subloans would be subject to a 10 percent floor (Section 3.06 of the Loan
Agreement). This formula would be reviewed and if necessary revised, at least
annually by the Bank and COFINA beginning not later than January 15, 1979. If
no agreement on interest rates were to be reached within 60 days from the start
of such review, COFINA would discontinue making further commitments under the
Bank loan until an agreement is reached between the Bank and COFINA (Section
3.07 of the Loan Agreement). COFINA would also charge an appraisal fee of up
to 1 percent and a commitment fee of 1 percent on undisbursed balances. Under
prevailing conditions, the interest rate formula would result in an efftctive
interest rate charged by COFINA of about 12-13 percent. Unless the Bank
otherwise agrees, the maximum amount of Bank funds that would be utilized for
any subproject would not exceed US$2 million. A free limit of US$500,000 for
individual subloans and an aggregate free limit of US$6 million have been
established which would permit the Bank to review about 80 percent of subloans
by amount and 50 percent by number. Internal financial and economic rates of
return would be calculated on all subprojects above the free limit (Sections
2.02(a)(i) and (b) and 2.03(a)(i) of the Loan Agreement).
53.       The increase inI the wholesale price index in Panama has dropped from
14 percent in 1974-75 to 7.8 percent in 1975-76 to 7.2 percent in 1976-77 and
is projected at 7.5 percent per annum in 1977-79 and 7 percent per annum there-
after. Given these projected rates of inflation, COFINA's interest rates are
expected to be positive. Interest rates in Panama are not regulated but set
by the market, which is 'Largely based on the eurodollar market. Consequently,
interest rates for medium-term industrial loans have ranged from about 9 to 14
percent over the past three years. COFINA's formula for setting its interest
rate (see preceding paragraph) will ensure that COFINA's interest rates would
be no lower than those charged by other financial institutions operating in
Panama.
54.       Up to US$1 milLion of the proposed Bank loan would be relent, subject
to Bank approval, to MICI, at 7.35 percent, the interest rate of the proposed
Bank loan, for its small-scale industry program. MICI's on-lending rate to
the beneficiaries would be subject to Bank approval (Section 2.02(a)(ii) of
the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Procurement would be in line with standard commercial practices.
COFINA would satisfy itsielf that the goods and services procured are suitable
to the investment projecit and are reasonably priced. The proceeds of the



- 16 -
proposed Bank loan would be utilized to reimburse COFINA for 100 percent of
amounts disbursed under subloans. COFINA's disbursements would not exceed 70
percent of documented total projects costs. The same reimbursement percentage
cost sharing limit would apply in the case of small-scale industry financing.
Project Benefits and Risks
56.       The proposed project would assist the Government in its effort to
stimulate private industrial investment and would create conditions for the
industrial sector to obtain long-term credit from off-shore banks. It would
help COFINA to achieve a number of important institutional improvements.
The risks presented by the project are acceptable. Although COFINA is a new
institution with a relatively inexperienced staff, the technical assistance
component of the proposed loan would assist COFINA in improving its professional
expertise. Demand for COFINA financing would be reduced from projected levels
should the Government be less successful than anticipated in its effort to
increase private investment in the industrial sector. However, COFINA already
has sufficient subprojects at an advanced stage in its pipeline to utilize
the proceeds of the proposed loan. The small-scale industry program will be
thoroughly reviewed by the Bank before it authorizes COFINA to on-lend for it.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(COFINA) and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Panama and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special features of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements are referred to in Section III of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 5, 1978



-17-                                               Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL IHDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. E1AQ                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             75.7                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       17.1                                 MCST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb EST71ATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  350.0        740.0    1220.0           1066.7      1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)      448.0       683.0      865.0            911.1      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          1.1          1.4       1.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41.5          47.6      49.6             57.9        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        14.0         19.0      24.0             25.6        27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICILTURAL LAND      75.0         85.0     105.0             77.6       116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.4         43.7      43.4             42.0        34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                          53.0        52.3       52.9             52.2        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6          3.5       3.7              3.7         5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (IPERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.9          3.1       3.1              2.7         1.6          2.9
URBAN                               4.3          4.6       3.9              4.3         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0         39.8      36.2             35.8        27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.9          8.7        7.1             9.1         9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8          2.8        2.5              2.6        1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..      15.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..            15.1        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              82.3        100.0      97.4            102.1       103.8        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0        116.0      98.0            103.9       110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           59.0         61.0      61.0             60.3        7787 89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0         31.0      30.0             26.7        22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIT'Y RATE      9.6          7.5        5.8              8.7        1.9
H0EALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    60.9          64.9      66.5             62.6        63.0         60.2
INFANT MORTALTTY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            58.0         41.0       33.0            56.9        38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERLCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        70.4      82.0             60.7        67.7         83.0
URBAN                                ..        100.0     100.0             78.0        83.5        100.0
RURAL                                ''         43.0      63.0             34.9        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         79.7      87.8             61.1        70.3         57.8
URBAN                                ..         92.5      97.1             80.3        90.7         99.3
RURAL                                ..         68.2       78.0            25.4        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2700.0       1550.0    1230.0            1899.3     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3460.0 /f   1420.0    1360.0             1220.1      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             250.0        288.0     266.0            422.3       275.4        325.8
URBAN                                ..        170.0      149.0           250.2       129.9        250.0
RURAL                                ..       1530.0    1240.0           2281.6       965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             -.        26.0       21.0             25.6       18.9         18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE S0ZE OF HOUSEHOLE
TOTAL                               4.7          4.9         ..              5.2        3.9
URBAN                                4.4          . .
RURAL                                4.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.4         2.2         ..              2.0        0.9
URBAN                                2.1         1.8         ..              2.1        0.8
RURAL                                2.6         2.5         ..              2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICIrTY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              44.0         52.0         ..             51.2       59.2
URBAN                              82.7         90.4         ..             77.3        78.0
RURAL                               11.0        16.0         ..             12.8        12.5



-18-                                          Annex I
Page 2 05f 5
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/A
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0        103.0      105.0            103.5         97.6        104.1
FE1ALE                94.0        100.0      103.0            102.9         87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  29.0         40.0       66.1             37.2        47.8          44.7
FIMALE                32.0         42.0       69.2             37.9         42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 28.0           32.0       30.0             14.7        22.7          18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         29.0       26.0             32.8        25.4          30.6
SECONDARY                           23.0         21.0       23.0             17.8        24.9          16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          78.3 A      82.2 IR      ..              74.9        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.0         32.0       39.0             26.9        32.3          53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         159.0        157.0      159.0            173.5       201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          10.0        107.0      112.0             69.4        97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         92.0       92.0              72.8        70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             4.8        ..               4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        330.0        430.0      490.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.2         26.8       28.3             21.4        17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               46.1         36.5       30.3             37.8        38.4          25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  13.7         16.9       17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.1         29.6       29.4             30.8        33.7          40.1
MALE                                   51.1         42.3      41.3              47.2        50.8         55.8
FEMALE                                 14.3         16.2      17.0              13.2        12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.5        1.4              1.7         1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.1 /h        22.2 /h   22.2 /h           28.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  55.3 /h        49.3 /h   47.4 /h           57.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0 /h         4.1 /h    4.6 /b            3.12        3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.4 /h        13.8 /h   15.2 /h           10.7        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..            251.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      266.0            200.6       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      381.0            403.1       448.8
RURAL                                  ..          .,      272.0            258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       17.0             24.8        23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       50.0             65.2        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1963;  /L  Aged 10 years and over;  /h  Income recipients.
September, 1978



-19-                                                          Annex I
Page 3 of 5
DEF:,NITIONS OPFSOCIALJINDIICATnPOS
iYto:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the nest
populated cou-try in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicaturs depends oe  availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of date,
group averages for Capitol Surplus Oil Exportera and indicators of acces- to wetar sed exereta disposal, leasing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geonetric neans without the eurluaion of extrene values,
LAND AREA (thouuaxd sq. k)                                                                Pooulatiun per hospital hbd - total. urban, and rtral - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area coeprising land area and inland waters,                         urh_, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bedu
Aericltrtul - Most recent estimate of agricaltoral area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and speciali-ed hospita1 ud te-
or permanently for crops, pa-t-oeo, netket and kitchen gardcns or to                     habilitation Centers.  Hospitals are establishments permasently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physcisn.  Eatabliahmoeotn providing principally rustodial
carz are net inclodd.  Rura-   ospitals, haweve , include health cod  ndi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estinates o.t current market prices,                  cal centere not permanently    iffed by a physician (but by a =edical as-
calculated by saro conversion method as World Bank Ati-n (1975-77 basis);                sietant, nurse, midwife, Ott  which offer in-patient accosrodsticc and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited  range of me: cal facilities.
A"1sieeiemper hoseital bad - Teal number of adioei... to or ciochargac
ENERiY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commerciel energy                     fre  hospitals divided by the numbr of bed..
(coal and lignite, pecroleu=, oatural gas and hydro-, -clest and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogrers of coal equivalest per capita.                     OUSUiD
Average ais  of household (nersona nor ho....hald) - total, urhen,a    rura-l-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A  hu ehold ooacs of 7           p of individu7al  who share living quarters
Total populetion, oid-year (millions) - As of Jely 1; if sot available,                    and their main meals   A boarder or lodger may or nay sot be included in
average ol tra  'nd-year estisates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                          the household for otatisiral purposes.  Stiotical defirttiocr  of house-
UrbE n population (percent of total) - Ratio of arban to total popula-                     hold vry.
tion; different definitiono of urban arece nay affect conparhbility                   Averas number of peraoos pee room - total, urbna, and rural - Average sn-
of data anong ccuotries.                                                                her of parsons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied c-oventiocal
Populotion densit;_                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude ric-permanent s  otto it ond
Per  sq. k. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)               ,    unocespied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Mcses to electricity  (eercent of dwellinga) - total, urban..    d cura] -
Per sq. k. agri ulture land - Co=puted as above for agricoltural land                     Convnotieaal dwellings with       . eletricity in living quartero ae percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, ssd rural dar1iigs tropectloely.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0)-14 yeara), working-age
(15-64 years). rd retired (65 years end over' as percentagex of mid-                EDUCATION
year population                                                                      Adlusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and obran -   ._ sand asnual                  Primr  school - total, nd female - Total and female enroll=ent of oll ages
growth ratos  of total and urban rid-year popouLtiuon  for 1950-60,                     at the pricy  level as perceanages of retyscrively primary sebonl-age
1960-70, and 19t0-75.                                                                   populatioss; nrelly includes children aged 6-11 years bht udjunced for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live bLrths per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for coontriec with utivorual edo--
mid-year popularion; ten-year urith=etic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment pay enceed 100 percent since soon pupils are below or
1970 and five-y-ea  averege ending Tn 1975 for most recent estimate                      bove the official sehool age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    gecondary school - total, and female - Computed as above:  -ec-dary educe-
year population; ten-yeer arithmetic averages ending in 1960 aud 1970                    tios  requires at least four years of approved primary iratrction;i pro-
and five-year overage eoding in 1975 for nost rocent ontinate                           vide_ geneal vocatinnal, or teacher training instruc tio.s  fo  pupils
Gross reproductioa rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usp lly of 12 to 17 years of age; -orrenpondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if ahe eper iences pro.en: age-                       saluded.
specific fertility rates; usually fiv-year averages esd-ag in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment foercent of aecondary) - Vocational institutions in-
19710, and 1975.                                                                        clude tachnical, industrial, or other programs which operate irdepeudertlo
Family plas.uig - acceptors, aInual (thousaads) - Annual nuber of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-_ontrol devices under auspic t     of natiotal family             Pupil-reacher ratio - primary, and oecondary - Total atudents -orc-led in
planning pro"ram                                                                        priry and serondary levels dividod by numbers of teachers in the corr-
Pacify planiog'- usera (Percent of earned w..o.) - Percetage of                            epsndisg levels.
caried  -oeeo o hild-buEeir     g age (15-44 years) who use birth-control            Adult litra"cy rate (percent) - Literate odults (able to resd snd write) an
devices o all married women in sane age group.                                           a perceontge of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AlD NCdTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTIOK
Index of food production per capita (197P0-10  - Index sacbet of per                   Paseenear cars (per thos`d pop. ation  - Passenger cars comprice rotoE cars
raiasuI prodctioe ofal  food coodit                                             ... seting lass than might parsons; anldes anhlancec, h-a--.i'                t
Per capita sueply of tsiories (percent of rea.iremento) - Computed from                 vehicles.
esorgy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio tecLvers (per theuagnd population) - All typos of receivers for radio
per day.  Available  upplies comprise dos-esti  peodaction, ixports less              broedcrats to general public ner thbss.ad of population; excludes  unlioonsed
exports, and changes in stok.  Net supplies osclude animal feed, seeds,               receivrs in countries and in years when registration of r-tio sets wo-  it
qauatities used in food processing, and loasos in distribution.   Re-                 effect; data for recent years my not be coeparable since runt couatccoc
quirements were eati=ated by FAO based en physiological needs for nor-                abolishad licennig.
=al ucnivity and health considering anriroemectal tsmpor..ur-, body                  TV reesivec   eer thousand popelafioi) - TV rnceivers for broeaet co genera
weights, age and sea distrihutions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; es-ludes unlicensed TO receivers in coon-
ecet for waate at hoaaehold level,                                                       tries and in years when regiatration of TV sets woo in effect
Per capita ssppiy of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circa)a-
rapita net supply of        pe                      offood is defined an                tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined asaperiodical-publ
above.  Requirome=ts for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarilv to recording general news   It is considerrd to
a mini=i         . allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams          be "daily" if it appears at least four times   seek.
of cni=al and pulse proteic, of whih 10 gra=s should be aninal pronci.               Cinem  anl attesdanc  per cap ito per year - Baed on the enher of ti,k -o
Theso standarda  are  lower than those of 75 grn=n of total protein and                 asid during the year, including admissions to drive-in cine=as and  ohbile
23 gra=s of anLmal protein as an average for tho world, proposed by                     units.
PAO in the Third World Food Survey
Per cagita protein aupply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food             EDPLOYNDgT
derived Pros animals and pulses in gra`s per day.                                    Total labor force (thous.ada) - Economically a-tiv- persons, including oroed
Child (ages 1-h) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoas-                  forces and unemployed but eaclading housewives,  tstdents, etc   Defini-
and in age group 1-4 ye-rs, to child-en in this age group.                              tione in various aountrie sre aot co-psrobl
Fele (percent) - Female labor frcee as percentagr of total labor force
HEALTh                                                                                  Mtir,slture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishlng
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
renamning at birth; usually fivf-year  averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) -   bahor force in mining, constr%ction, manafacturing end
and 1975.                                                                               elactricity, water and gaa as percentage  of total l-bor forct .
Infant rorrality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants ander                  Pseticipetion rate (Ceruest) - total  male, and ferrale - Total, male, and
one year of age per chousand live birhts.                                                emale labor force as per.ent.aes off  heir resp-ccivo populaic- ._
Access to safe uat-r (percent of population) - toial, urban, and rural -                   These ars ILO's adjusted participation rates refecting ace-see
N=uber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonahle access to                    strcture of the population, and Iong tine  reni.
safe cuter supply (includes treated  urEface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of popalation unde_   15 and 65. and coec t,
unconta=inater wotor suoh as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the lab-r forte in age group of 15-64 yeeru.
.nd .anitary sells) as percentagen of their respactivo populations
I. an urban area o public fountain or standpost located not sore                    INCOhE DISTRIBUTION
chun 200 netnas from a houpe may be considered as being within tea-                  Fercentaze of private income (both in cash and kird) received by richest 5
uonable acces  of that house.  Ia rural  reas reasonable aceas would                    percent, richest 20 per-ent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that thi housewife or ne.bers of the ho-sehold do sot hare to                     of households.
spend a diuprc,portionote part of the day in fetching thr family's
ter  eeds.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acceut to e-reta dipoosal fperecot of Population) - total, urban, and                  gatimated  bsolutE povertsy intome level (US' nor c" pita) - urbac aI     d rurul -
rural -  Nhmber of people (total, urban, and rursl) servod by  -creta                     Absolust poverty inco   level is that income level below which s mioicri
disposal as percentageu of their respective popalatoss.  Eicreta                        nutritiosally sdeqaste diet pls essential non-food requirements is not
disposal msy in-lude the collection and disposal, with or without                       affrdable.
treatme.t, of huan excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty incosm  level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural
or the -ue of pit privies and silar installstios.                                       Ral.tive poverty income level is that isrope level less than one-third
Population per phyviciun - Population divided by nuhber of precticing                      per capita peerseal incooe of the cnastry.
physcciams qualified from a nedical school at university level.                      Etisatd populatin below  poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nurisin  person - Population divided by somber of                           Percetn  of popalation (urban and rural) who are eiter "absolute poor" or
practicing nale and  .sele graduate surses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
ussistacot ncures.
Economic and Sioia1 Data Divisi-n
Economic Analysis rnd Projections Departmen



-20-
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
PANAMA - COL2TRY DATA
GROSS NATIONAL FRODUCT IN 1977                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROW1H (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.     ,                           196 3 -68          1968 -?3           1974-77
GNP at Market Prices          2215.4     100.0                            7.0                7.2              1.3
Gross Domestic Investment    490.2        22.1                           10.5               11.1              -7.0
Gross National Saving          290.9      13.4                           14.3                7.1               0
Current Account Balance       -199.3      -9.0
Exports of Goods, NFS          844.5       38.1                           8.2                4.5              -2.7
Imports of Goods, NFS          998.2      45.1                            6.5                7.5             -5.4
OUTPUJT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTImTY TTN 1976
Value Added                   Labor Forel/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      J                   Thou.
330.4      17.1                 158.7      31.0                 2082.0        55.1
Agricultury                     474.0      24.5                  83.5      16.3                 5677.0       150.3
SvIndsty                      1129.8       58.4                 261.1      51.0                 4327.0       114.5
Unallocated                                                       8.7       1.7                    -           -
Total/Average
1934.2     100.0                 512.0    5055                   3778t0       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government  2/                           Central Oovernment -
B/  Mn l0L;rJ- -%  f GDP                        (B.  Mln.)            of G W D
1_7          1977        1975-7                   1977       197         1______
Current Receipts                      -             -             -                   351*6       15.7            14.8
Current Expenditure                   -             -            _                    355.9       15.8            15.0
Current Surplus                      36.0           1.6          1.3                             -_0.1            -0.2
Capital Expenditures                350.0         15.5          17.2                 110.1         4.9             6.7
External Assistance (net)           243.9          10.8         12.7                  112.7         5.0             4.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1972         1973         1974         i9T5          1976        1977
(Million B/. outstanding end per7i-d
Money and Quasi Money  4                   440.4         506.4       596.4        622.1         732.3        791.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                16.3          6.1         71.4        219.0         313.0        315.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector              703.5        965.1       1229.3       1279.2        1301.8      1369.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           33.9          34.4        32.5         32.2          36.1         35.6
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           128.1         141.6       184.4        210.3         226.7        243.0
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index  (wholesale)             8.5          10.5        30.2         14.0           7.8          7.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                -4.0        -63.0       1070.0        207.0          42.9          0.6
Bank credit to Private Sector               33.1          37.2        27.4          4.1           1.8          5.2
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal Occupation.  "Unallocqat4d" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.  Excludes collective settlements and indigenous population.
2/ Excludes financial intermediaries. Includes Government owned enterprises.
3/ Cash basis.
/  Demand, time and savings deposits only.  The amount of US dollars in circulation is unknown.
Balboa issues are limited to coins.



-21-
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 197 5-77)
1974      1975      1976     1977                                       US $ Mln    %
(Million US$)               Bananas                           61.3     21.6
Exports of Goods, NFS ~-/~  751.5        851.5    804.2    844.5      Refined petroleum -               58.6      32.1
Exports of Gods  NS           ___        921Shrimp                                   eu   /27.2                    9.6
Imports of Goods, NFS        -918.4      992.1    961.0    sa8.2      Sugar                             31.9      11.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  -166.9    -140.6   -T-?8   -153.7         Coffee                            315        1.2
Interest Payments (net)       -55.0      -20.8    -33.3      39.0     All other commodities             68.7      24.2
Workers' Remittances              -         -         -        -
Other Factor Payments (net)      -          -         -        -
Net Transfers                   -4.2      -5.0      -4.5     -6.6
Balance on Current Account  -226.1    -166.4   -199.6   -199.3             Total                       238.5   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment      35.4       10.2      7.3       8.0  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              196.7      206.9    309.7    358.4                                               US $ Mln
Amortization               -93.1      -31.1    -74.2    -89.7
Subtotal                   103.6      175.8    235.5    27        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             1,378.4
Capital Grants                  9.9        6.o      6.5       5.0    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)       2/ -194.8    -155.5   -101.0   -104.9   Total outstanding & Disbursed                1,378.4
Increase in Reserves (-) -   272.0      129.9      46.3      22.4
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 -
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             19.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed             19.9
Imports                     277.4      330.7    265.0    254.2
of which:  Petrolem       271.1      324.2    258-4    247.6
Exports                     227.5      263.1    187.3    178.5
of which:  Petroleum      227.5      263.1    187.3    178.5
IBRD/IDA LENDING,(12/3111977) (Million US$)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD
Outstanding & Disbursed              99.1
US $ 1.OO   B/. 1.00                                            Undisbursed                         -92.9
B/.  1. 00   US $ 1. 00                                         Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        192.0
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services plus workers' remittances.
2/ Net foreign transactions of the banking system.
3/ Excludes sale of bunker oil.
T Includes earnings of Panamanians who work in the Canal Zone.
not available
not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
November



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of October 31, 1978)
US$ Million
Loan                                                             (less cancellations)
Number       Year         Borrower               Purpose          Amount   Undisbursed
8 loans    (1953-72)      Fully disbursed                          83.4           -
901-PAN      1973        BNP                Livestock              4.7           .8
948-PAN      1974        IRHE               Power                 30.0          2.5
1114-PAN      1975        APN                Fishing Port          24.0         11.1
1280-PAN      1976        IDAAN              Water Supply
and Sewerage       12.0         10.7
1397-PAN      1977        BNP                Livestock              8.0          7.9
1398-PAN      1977        BNP                Fisheries              7.5          7.5
1470-PAN      1977        IRHE               Power                 42.0         41.7
1565-PAN      1978        The Republic       Highway
of Panama          Maintenance        12.0         12.0
Total (less cancellations)                         223.6         94.2
of which has been repaid                          22.7
Total now outstanding                              200.9
Amount Sold                         9.2
of which has been repaid          3.9              5.3
Total now held by Bank                             195.6
Total undisbursed                                                94.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                      Loan    Equity   Total
1971        Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero              1.2     0.3       1.5
1978        Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                         2.4      1.4      3.8
1979        Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                             -      2.5      2.5
Total gross commitments                        3.6      4.2      7.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                        0.2      0.0      0.2
Total commitments now held by IFC              3.4      4.2      7.6
Total undisbursed                              2.1      0.9      3.0
1/   Not yet effective.



- 23 -
ANtM{ T
Page 2 of 4
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 901:       Livestock Development Project; US$4.7 Million Loan of
June 8, 197:3; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project finances cattle enterprises, including land reform
settlements involved in dairying, beef breeding and fattening, and technical
services. A study financed under the loan of the livestock potential in the
Atlantic Coast region has been completed. Commitments lagged behind appraisal
estimates, due mainly to intitial delays in organizing the project unit.  The
loan has now been fully committed and the project is expected to be completed
by mid-1980. Preliminary ianalysis of 17 project farms indicates a favorable
impact on technical coefficients of production and income.
Loan 948:       Third Power Project; US$30 Million Loan of December 4, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is designed to integrate three of the four isolated
major regional electricity systems into a national grid. Main project
items -- the 28 MW diesels, 230 kV lines and substations have been completed.
The only pending items -- some of the subtransmission lines and substations --
are expected to be completed in 1979, about 12 months behind the original
schedule, largely because of initial delays in engineering, bidding and procure-
ment. Project costs are currently estimated at 26 percent above appraisal
estimates in large part due to inflation. The project still yields a satis-
factory economic rate of return.
Loan 1114:       Fishing Port Project; US$24 Million Loan of May 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
The project consists of construction of a new fishing port at Punta
Vacamonte on the Pacific. Construction is proceeding on schedule, with marine
works expected to be completed in December and land works in the first quarter
of 1979. The port is expected to begin operations on schedule in April 1979.
Project costs are estimated at 20 percent above appraisal estimates, but the
project still yields a satisfactory economic rate of return.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1280:      Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project finances improvements to water supply systems in Panama
City, Colon, Chorrera and Arraijan and a water supply system for the new
fishing port of Vacamonte. It also finances the purchase of water meters.
Funds are included in the loan to improve the organization of the water supply
company and to install new commercial and accounting systems. Project
execution has been slower than estimated at appraisal due in part to a change
in management of the institution in 1976. Engineering design is well advanced,
but about one-year behind schedule because of underestimation of design time
and the Borrower's initial reluctance to hire consultants. Physical work
on subprojects has now begun. First delivery of a purchase of 30,000 water
meters was received in July 1978 and installation will take about a year.
The institutional reforms contemplated in the project have been started
and the installation of new accounting procedures is now scheduled to begin
early next year.
Loan 1397:      Second Livestock Project; US$8 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982.
The project includes financing for small and medium scale milk
producers; for the Integrated Development Program of Rio Hato, a state farm
which serves as a production and training center for farmers, and technical
assistance. The project started slowly due in part to changes required in
milk legislation and staff changes in the project unit. The legislation has
now been modified. The Rio Hato subproject has been delayed because legisla-
tion relating to its organization has not been approved. However, it is
expected that such legislation will be approved early next year. Loan commit-
ments for the small and medium scale milk producers, the most important
component of the project, have accelerated.
Loan 1398:      Second Fisheries Prolect; US$7.5 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project includes the construction of ten new purse seiners, the
replacement of five obsolete shrimp trawlers by five new boats, the rehabilita-
tion of ten wooden shrimp trawlers; the relocation of six shrimp processing
plants to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte; the development of fresh
water fish and oyster farms, and technical assistance. The contract for the
purchase of the purse seiners has been awarded, and operational agreements
required to disburse for the fresh water fish and oyster farming components
have been signed. Improvement of facilities of the national fresh water fish
farming station is underway. The project is proceeding on schedule.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1470:       Fourth Power (Fortuna Hydroelectric) Project:  US$42 million
of July 1, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of the 255 MW Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project, and associated transmission as well as technical
assistance for organizatiLonal improvement and a training program for the
Borrower. The project is co-financed with the Inter-American Development
Bank and suppliers. The underground civil works, which are being financed
by the IDB, are proceeding on schedule. The contract for the main generating
equipment, which is being financed with credits from suppliers, has been
awarded and procurement ior the dam and diversion works, which will be financed
by the Bank, is proceeding on schedule.  The organization and training programs,
being financed by the Bank, have started.
Loan 1565:       Highway laintenance Project:  US$12 million loan of June 30,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project finances equipment, spare parts and technical assistance
required to implement a Eour-year maintenance program which would strengthen
the maintenance capability of the Ministry of Public Works. The process of
selection of consultants has begun, as has the procurement for some of the
equipment.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1) Initial request for Bank financing: September 1977
(2) First Bank mission to consider project: November 1977
(b) Appraisal Mission Departure: June 1978
(c) Negotiations Completed: November 1978
(d) Loan Effectiveness Planned: April 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III. Special Conditions
(a) COFINA to operate in accordance with its Stateiment of Objectives
and Policies (paragraph 42);
(b) COFINA co charge interest rates in accordance with an agreed-
upon formula, and to charge no less than 10 percent for sub-
loans financed with Bank funds, with the exception of the MICI
subloan which would be relent to MICI at the interest rate of the
proposed Bank loan. COFINA's interest rate policy would be reviewed
and if necessary revised at least annually, beginning no later than
January 15, 1979. If no agreement on interest rates were to be
reached within 60 days from the start of such review, COFINA would
discontinue making further commitments under the Bank loan until
an agreement is reached between the Bank and COFINA (paragraph 52);
(c) the free limit for COFINA's subprojects would be US$500,000 with an
aggregate free limit of US$6 million. The maximum subloan amount
would be US$2 million. Internal financial and economic rates
of return would be calculated for all subprojects over the free
limit (paragraph 52);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) COFINA authorized to lend to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce
up to US$1 mil]Lion at the same interest rate as that of the proposed
Bank loan after Bank review of the program (paragraphs 33, 38 and 54);
(e)  COFINA to be audited by independent auditors (paragraph 48);
(f) the Government would bear the exchange risk between the currencies
of disbursement and the US dollar and the Balboa (paragraph 50); and
(g)  the Government to guarantee any financing which exceeds the maximum
exposure limits permitted under COFINA's Statement of Objectives and
Policies (paragraph 42).






IBRD 2732R2
C    A   R   I                     8             A   N                    $    E   A
Fine zone       .0.I.CLON              I         I -SLAS DE SAN aLAS
FU.                                                                                                                                1     -.  Mod-a
f\IN                                      -6                                                                                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 'Nd
<-  COLONToun -PuroL PDJT-                                                                                         N
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- duo En-oerhd.r
gO ),.~~~~.                                                                        /   N               Anraijon       PANAMA          -         PANAMA             N        -~~~~~~~~~~~~   \\NAMAatatopac
*  '             0 ~~B C A S   D L  TOR 0                                                                                                                                                           N  aia Pet  art
Verona    Volar    ooapieeB   C'U"P                                                                           S PANAMA*C LabEgTN                                                                                           N N
~~0000    Cunonpoor  Gunmen                                       --- S~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~~~~i Cop6  ha.Pna  om                                                    RNI   E   N
PoorsoO       * oovis   ~~~C H I R I 0 U I                            '.            La Yaguada .aaar 
k-lain  Chriquf                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AnCHIPELAGo                                            P a
I Tuildo  pedrogni  SAbolo                                             GolAn *       San CA-las                 SE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAS PERLAS-*                                                          s
*   del Rio          tuna~~~S61,0n V ERAGUAS
otu                                                                                                                     N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
non   a,0anWO,oCo.oak5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oaa.O.'a~~~~~~~~  UyL'1   PonAd hilAtsm0l,
U141TEO JITAMS 10 ~ ~           ~                                                                   b aofoing                        PANAMA
.50?R! ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                              Pida-PlaO-d -onS, Inton-Amorloa Higtn,y*
dt(DA   ~    ~    ~     I I ~ALA                             K Ptla             LO SATSP-adornii -oantlaen road
AMA                                                                        *-Pndasi                *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airfields on laNgle strips  Joi
OSAO BOSS    NA                 .                                                                                                       ftdt aonaCaa
Intontiongl banindarna
1  OICARAS                                         I                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cana Zone b.uandanino
P      A      C      /     F      I     C               0      C      E     A      N                      o        00      O 
or                       00'                             ouoasooeo~~~~~- Tt.



