Document of
FILE          COPY              The World Bank
,FILE     COpy        ~F'OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2111-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF.INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
May 31, 1977
This document has a restricted dWbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1          = Rp 415
1 Rp          = $0.0024
1 million Rp = $2,410
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
ABRI       - Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia
BAPPENAS   - National Development Planning Agency
BUPATI     - Chief Executive of a Kabupaten
INPRES     - Presidential Instruction
IPPA       -  Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association
IUD        -  Intrauterine Device
KABUPATEN  - Administrative subdivision of a province
KECAMATAN  - Administrative subdistrict
LKBN       - National Family Planning Institute
LURAH      - Village Headman
MCH/FP     - Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOH        - Ministry of Health
NFPCB      - National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PIU        -  Project Impiementation Unit
PKK        -  Community Health Nurse
PTC        - Provincial Training Center
PUSKESMAS  - Public Health Center
STC        -  Subprovincial Training Center
TFR        - Total Fertility Rate
UNESCO     - United Nations Education, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
UNFPA      - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF     - 'United Nations Children's Fund
USAID      - United States Agency for International Development
VCDC       - Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO        - World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:         $24.5 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:          20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at
8.20% per annum.
Project
Description:  Major components of the project are:
(a) provision of equipped vehicles to enable family planning
staff to offer services to population groups who cannot
easily avail themselves of services provided by static
service outlets;
(b)  construction and equipment of facilities for the NFPCB's
Bureau of Education and Training in Jakarta, and Provin-
cial training centers and offices in ten provinces
outside Java and Bali; and
(c) research studies aimed at (i) introduction of a pilot
community incentive scheme to promote family planning in
economically underdeveloped kecamatans; and (ii) the
feasibility of providing raw materials for local contra-
ceptive production using botanical material available in
Indonesia.
In addition, the proposed project makes provision for tech-
nical assistance, fellowships, special equipment and other
support for: (i) integration of population education into
formal school curricula and non-formal education programs;
(ii) the national training program; (iii) maintenance and
operation of vehicles, equipment and civil works financed
under the project; and (iv) the two research studies included
in the project.
This decument has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients on is the performance
of their official duties. Hs contents -may not otherwise be disclosed without Worl Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs: The table below summarizes the cost of the project:
% of
Foreign
Local    Foreign     Total    Exchange
------ ($ million) ------
NFPCB's Bureau of Education
and Training                           1.0       1.1       2.1        52.3
PTCs                                     3.3       1.3        4.6       28.4
NFPCB Provincial Offices                 1.5       0.7        2.2       31.6
Mobile Family Planning Services          0.2       3.4        3.6       95.0
Population Education                     1.5       0.5        2.0       25.2
Community Incentive Scheme               2.0       0.4        2.4       18.5
Contraceptive Study                       -        0.7        0.7       96.0
Subtotal                        9.5       8.1      17.9       46.3
Site Development                         3.9        -         3.9         -
Incremental Operating Costs             22.8        -        22.8         -
Base Cost                      36.2       8.1      44.3        18.4
Contingencies                           13.2       2.5       15.7       15.9
Total Project Cost             49.4      10.6      60.0        13.6
Financing Plan:  The proposed loan of $24.5 million would finance the total
foreign exchange cost of the project and $13.9 million of
local costs.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       1978   1979  1980  1981  1982  1983    Total
Annual         1.0    8.9  10.3   1.5   1.3   1.5     24.5
Cumulative     1.0    9.9  20.2  21.7  23.0  24.5
Consultants:       Consultants would be retained under the project to provide
support in the survey and evaluation of the community
incentive scheme; assist in the development of the oral
contraceptive study; give general support to the expansion
and continuation of population education; and supply
expertise in family planning training, management and
training research, and curricula development.
Appraisal Report:  No. 1534a-IND, dated May 31, 1977.
Population Projects Department.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $24.5 million to help
finance a Second Population Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.20% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:    Recent
Developments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND)
described the recovery of the economy from the world recession and the
financial troubles of Pertamina, the state oil company, and examined some
of the important development issues which the country faces in the next few
years.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-1973/74)/I,
the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed. Transport,
power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after years of
neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural output expan-
ded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and foundations of modern industry -
fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period, the annual rate
of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and investment also rose
rapidly. With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not only
a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. The first two years of the Plan were dominated by the developments
in the oil sector - the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's
serious financial difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's under-
taking of a large and diversified investment program without arranging
satisfactory financing. With the onset of the world recession, bank credit
became much more restrictive. Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-
term debt and failed to meet the financial obligations which were falling
due. In the event, the Government stepped in and undertook to honor the oil
company's obligations. The repayment of these obligations, along with the
fall in export earnings as a result of the recession, necessitated large
foreign commercial borrowing, seriously strained the Government's budgetary
resources and Indonesia's balance of payments, and led to a sharp decline in
the foreign exchange reserves.
/1 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



-2-
4.        During 1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly following
improvements in the world economy, and rose to a level higher than expected
earlier. Imports continued to increase rapidly, but the rate of price
increase slowed down and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. Most of
Pertamina's short-term debt had been repaid by the end of 1975/76, and
disbursements on foreign borrowing continued to be high in 1976/77. As a
result, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves rose to a more comfortable
level, i.e. $1.2 billion at the end of 1976 (and even higher levels in recent
months) corresponding to about two months of imports.
5.        The Government's budgetary position was also much better in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also rose over and above
the amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of Government efforts to curb
smuggling and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional
revenues together with continued restraint in increasing current expenditures
enabled the Government not only to increase development expenditures substan-
tially but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. The rate of
inflation over the year decreased, from a high of 17% in the first quarter to
only a modest increase in the last two quarters of 1976/77, giving an average
increase of less than 15% for the year as a whole.
6.        In 1976, the domestic economy recovered in other respects also.
The available indicators suggest that industrial output and private invest-
ment rose faster than in the previous two years. The output and prices of
tree crops rose with foreign demand, thus raising the incomes of the producers.
This provided a welcome relief to the small producers, who had suffered from
the declining foreign prices of their produce combined with rising domestic
prices of consumer goods. However, the production of food crops slackened
and rice output failed to rise appreciably for the second year in succession.
The domestic price of rice was kept stable by means of very substantial
imports, which reached 1.6 million tons (about 10% of domestic consumption)
in 1976/77. Early in the year floods, and later on drought, affected both
the wet season and dry season harvests. More importantly, a pest infesta-
tion afflicted large areas in Java, particularly those planted with the high
yielding varieties of rice, and the area under BIMAS and INMAS (the two
credit extension schemes for rice growers) remained fairly constant over the
last three years following a rapid increase during the First Development
Plan period. Rice output also failed to increase because the use of fertil-
izer did not rise despite ample availability. The Government has now relaxed
controls on the distribution of fertilizer and set its fertilizer/rice
price ratio at a level that should encourage fertilizer use.
7.          The large increase in the oil revenues over the past three years
has been invested, not consumed. Government development expenditures more
than quadrupled over this period and in 1976/77 amounted to Rp 2 trillion
(or about $5 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation
development expenditures rose in real terms by 35% a year. Rough estimates
indicate that at present more than 20% of GNP is being invested in Indonesia.



- 3 -
8.        The effect of the high level of investment expenditures, however,
cannot yet be seen in the growth of the Indonesian economy. In fact, the
economic growth in the first three years of Indonesia's Second Development
Plan, i.e. 1974/75 - 1976/77, has been somewhat slower than the observed
long-term trend rate of 7.5% a year. The world recession, uncertainties
following the Pertamina crisis and domestic inflation (which made certain
domestic industries uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on
the growth of the economy. Indonesia's growth rate also failed to accelerate
because the economic benefits from investments in recent years have been slow
in coming and because the growth in the private sector slackened. New
investment has been concentrated on relatively capital-intensive industrial
and infrastructure projects with long gestation periods; some projects, such
as Krakatau steel and the LNG, have been further delayed by slow implementa-
tion. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from investments in such
sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc. depends on the growth in
demand which in turn is determined by the growth of the rest of the economy,
which in Indonesia is mostly the private sector. Unfortunately, the private
sector seems to have failed to provide the necessary momentum of growth. The
indications are that investments in this sector, because of the Government's
attempts to control domestic inflation or because of the world recession,
rose only modestly in the first two years of the Plan.
9.        The orientation of the public sector investments was partly affected
by the Government's takeover of Pertamina's projects in the non-oil sector,
but was also a result of its attempt to raise investment rapidly in response
to the sharply rising oil revenues. It was easier and quicker to develop
capital-intensive projects; plans for several of them in fact existed even
before the improvement in public finances. On the other hand, new projects
in such sectors as rural development, transmigration, health and education
generally required not only innovation but also setting up new institutions.
Nevertheless, the Government views the orientation of its investment program
with some concern. As part of its efforts to rescue Pertamina from bankruptcy,
it initiated a careful review of all public sector investment proposals and
strengthened its control over the direction of investments. Where practicable,
the Government rejected or scaled down costly proposals. The budget for
1977/78 provides for a larger share of development expenditures in such
sectors as agriculture, health, family planning, education and regional
development.
10.      Reliable data on the recent trends in employment are not available.
The labor force has been increasing at a rate of more than one million
persons a year, but the current level of unemployment and the extent of
underemployment are not known. While considerable investment activity and
general economic prosperity is in evidence in urban and rural areas of
Indonesia, there is no indication that the labor market has tightened or that
the wages of unskilled workers have more than kept pace with domestic infla-
tion. However, the Government's efforts at family planning appear to have
yielded impressive results. Preliminary estimates from an inter-censal
survey in 1976 indicate that since 1971 the birth rate in Java and Bali has
significantly declined.



- 4 -
11.        The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and burdensome unfinished investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in the last two years has raised the level of
debt service, which is now expected to reach $1.87 billion by 1980 or close
to 17% of the projected export earnings compared to 13% in 1976. This does
not take account of the contingent liabilities incurred with regard to the
hire-purchase of tankers, the exact amount of which is subject to litigation.
12.       The prospects for Indonesia's export are generally good; the
principal constraint is expected to be quantities available for export rather
than foreign demand. Indonesia's export earnings, at least over the next
five years, are expected to rise rapidly and it should not be difficult to
meet the debt service obligations and still to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods. However, to maintain the pace of
development, Indonesia will continue to need a substantial inflow of foreign
assistance on concessional terms. As in the past, some local currency finan-
cing will also continue to be justified in connection with a few projects pro-
posed for Bank assistance in the social sectors. Projects in these sectors
tend to have a relatively low foreign exchange component and the inclusion of
some local cost financing in the Bank loan is important in enabling the Bank
to play a more significant role in their formulation and implementation. In
order to keep the debt service burden manageable, resort to commercial borrow-
ing in the next few years will have to be kept to a minimum. It is estimated
that Indonesia will need $2.1 billion in new external financing commitments
in 1977, and about the same amount next year, of which no more than one-third
should be on commercial terms. At the meeting of the Inter-Governmental
Group on Indonesia (IGGI) in April 1977, aid pledges of over $500 million
from bilateral sources were made. The likely commitments from those IGGI
donor countries which did not pledge, from the multilateral agencies and from
OPEC and East European countries should raise the total of official development
assistance to $1.5 billion.
13.       The heavy foreign debt service requirements will also reduce the
public sector resources available for investment. The net resource transfers
from abroad are expected to decline from $1.56 billion in 1976/77 to about
$640 million in 1980/81, or from about 5% to 1% of GNP. In order to maintain
the high rate of domestic investment already reached, the Government would
need to raise substantial additional revenue over the next few years, the
bulk of which would have to come from non-oil sources. The additional
revenue raising effort is also necessary to keep inflation under control.
The Government has already taken steps in this direction; income tax proced-
ures have been simplified and import duties are being more strictly enforced.
These measures as well as some additional ones need to be vigorously pursued.
14.       The medium-term outlook of the Indonesian economy is good.  Over
the last eight years, GNP rose at an average rate of 7.5% a year, and food
production expanded in step. This rate of growth could be maintained in
future if the rate of investment continues to be high and the orientation of
investments is shifted to less capital-intensive forms. Thus the Government's
efforts in mobilising domestic resources and careful investment planning
would be crucial in maintaining the relatively high rate of economic growth
and creation of employment opportunities. The Government would also need to
pay special attention to the production of rice, and food crops generally, so
that the recent setbacks remain a temporary pheonomenon.



-5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for
a development program which provides productive work opportunities (with
resultant increased incomes) for Indonesia's presently underemployed and
growing labor force. Major efforts are needed to increase labor-intensive
employment and programs directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and
their living standards. To assist the Government in attaining its goals, the
Bank is planning to increase its commitments to Indonesia and in particular to
support projects designed to: improve agricultural credit; rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems; assist transmigration and other land development
outside Java and Bali for and by smallholders; increase nonagricultural employ-
ment in the rural areas and small towns through the establishment of small-
scale industries, rural credit schemes as well as vocational and nonformal
education programs; develop the electric power system; construct urgently
needed water supply and transport facilities; and expand the national family
planning program.
16.       As of April 30, 1977, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits totaling
$561.8 million and 23 Bank loans amounting to $1,155.5 million /1. At that
date, IFC investments totaled $59.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total external debt (disbursed) outstanding at the end of 1976
was about 6% and the share of debt service was less than 1%. By 1978 these
ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively. A summary
statement of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as of April 30, 1977,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are contained in
Annex II.
17.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
nine Bank loans and IDA credits for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
irrigation systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds production, beef
cattle, sugar, smallholder tea, smallholder rubber, agriculture research,
food crop extension services, transmigration and nutrition development. The
Operations and Evaluation Department of the Bank is undertaking a study of
Bank Group lending in the agricultural sector. In the industrial sector, the
Bank has assisted in four projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production
and distribution capacity, four for development finance companies (Government-
owned and private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of indus-
trial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial estate. Loans and
credits have also been extended to the education (including technical and
agicultural education, teacher training, textbook production, vocational and
civil service training), telecommunications, tourism, power generation and
distribution, transportation (including highways, inter-island shipping, rail-
roads and ports), population, urban and water supply sectors. A loan was
also extended for a national resource survey and mapping project and four
credits for technical assistance to aid the Government in preparing and
formulating its development programs and projects.
/1 Four additional Bank loans (totaling $157 million) were approved by the
Executive Directors in May and signed on June 6, 1977.



18.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation; lending on Bank terms began in June 1974. Dis-
bursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels. The
Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the cost to the
country of the delays in project execution caused by cumbersome procedures
and of the need to establish an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the
National Development Planning Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank
arranged in 1974 for assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit
(Credit 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring and control system. It is hoped
that the system, which is due to commence operation shortly, will lead to
better project administration.
19.       The proposed loan is the eleventh presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia this year to $440.0
million. Projects for nucleus estates and smallholder development, small enter-
prise credit, rural credit and non-formal education are expected to be ready
for presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
Size and Distribution
20.       According to the most recent decennial census (September 1971), the
population of Indonesia was 119.2 million, making it the fifth most populous
country in the world. At that date, population density was 63 persons/sq km;
however, the population is extremely unevenly distributed, with Java accounting
for less than 7% of the land area and 64% of the population, giving a density
of 565 persons/sq km. By contrast, Kalimantan comprises some 27% of the land
area and only 4% of the population (a ratio of nine persons/sq km) and in
West Irian the ratio is two persons/sq km (Map No. 12696). In Indonesia as a
whole, 17% of the population live in urban areas. There is heavy pressure on
agricultural land resources in Java due to high population densities and a
relatively low (18%) urbanization rate.
Sex and Age Composition
21.       The 1971 census recorded a ratio of females to males (1,000:957) in
Java, with the sexes more evenly balanced (1,000:998) in the rest of the
country. The population also contains a high percentage in the younger age
groups, 44% being aged 14 years and below. This is indicative of the high
level of childbearing and a relatively low expectation of life at birth in
previous decades.
Mortality, Fertility and Population Growth
22.       Given that Indonesia currently has no national system for the record-
ing of vital events, it is not possible to be precise in providing information
on levels and trends in birth and death rates. Such information has been
derived primarily from analyses of the 1961 and 1971 censuses, and from data



- 7 -
provided by the 1973-Fertility Mortality Survey/I. Based on this information,
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births) in the later 1960s was about 144 in
rural and 115 in urban Indonesia, with an overall level of around 140 for the
country as a whole, indicating a substantial (50%) and continuous decline of
the rates applying some 20 years earlier (1945-49). In 1976, the overall
crude death rate is estimated to have been about 18/1,000 persons.
23.       In Indonesia as a whole, the pattern of fertility can be described
as one of "early marriage, high fertility"; it is not uncommon for a woman's
childbearing period to be spread over a span of 20 years or longer, resulting
in high fertility rates at the ages of 15-19 and 25-35 years. There are,
however, considerable variations between regions. During the 1960s, a fall
in fertility rates at ages 15-19 was evident and clearly related to a trend
towards later marriage. The total fertility rate (TFR) in Java and Bali was
estimated to be 5.8 in the period 1965-70 and dropped to 5.1 in 1975. Over
the same period, the crude birth rate in Java and Bali is estimated to have
fallen from 44.0 to 38.3 per 1,000 persons.
24.       Population growth is primarily determined by births and deaths
within the country. Between 1961 and 1971, the annual growth rate was 2.1%,
an increase of 0.6% over that recorded during 1930-61. In 1976 it was
estimated to be in the order of 2.2% per annum. The rising growth rate is
due to substantial declines in mortality without any significant change in
fertility prior to 1970. Given the probability of a considerable and
continuing lowering in mortality rates, it is inevitable that the rate of
population growth will increase unless fertility declines. Current demo-
graphic aralyses show that, even under the most optimistic assumptions
(a lowering of the crude birth rate to 24.3, the crude death rate to 10.5,
and annual population growth rate to 1.4%), the total population of Indonesia
would be about 209 million in the year 2000. With a less rapid decline in
fertility, the population might be as high as 258 million in that year.
Family Planning Program and Services
Background
25.       Family planning in Indonesia was started some 20 years ago by the
Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association (IPPA), a private voluntary
organization whose work was significantly enlarged in 1967 after President
Suharto signed the Declaration of World Leaders on Population. In October
1968, recognizing the need for positive action, the Government set up a
semi-autonomous institute (LKBN) to coordinate family planning activities
being carried out by various private and official agencies. In 1969 the
Government invited a joint UN-WHO-IBRD mission to visit Indonesia and assist
in developing a comprehensive national family planning program.
I A one-round sample survey covering the topics of marriage, divorce,
fertility, mortality and knowledge, attitude and contraceptive practice
in Java (excluding Jakarta) Sumatera, Sulawesi and Bali.



- 8 -
On the basis of the joint mission's report, President Suharto directed that a
five-year operational plan be prepared for Java (including Madura) and Bali,
with the objective of recruiting six million new family planning acceptors by
1976./1
26.       In order to carry out this national plan, the LKBN was dissolved
and, by a 1970 Presidential Decree, the National Family Planning Coordinating
Board (NFPCB) was established, with responsibility for coordinating the
national family planning program (including foreign aid), generating policy
and drawing up implementation guidelines. The President is personally
responsible for the program and on policy matters is advised by a Ministerial
Council, chaired by the State Minister for People's Welfare, with the Chairman
of the NFPCB as its Secretary.
Organization
27.       In addition to a Chairman, the NFPCB has three deputy chairmen,
a Secretariat to control administrative and financial affairs, and nine
bureaus to handle various technical functions. Responsibility for implemen-
tation of the program's activities lies with the various implementing units,
which include the Ministries of Health, of Information, of Education and of
the Interior, as well as the Armed Forces, private doctors, and voluntary
organizations such as the IPPA, the Indonesian Council of Churches, and the
Muslim Muhammadiyah.
28.       In each of the 16 provinces currently covered by the national
program /2 the NFPCB has an office, headed by a provincial chairman, with a
secretary, three division chiefs (concerned with planning, supervision, and
research and evaluation respectively), and several project leaders responsible
for various operational aspects of the program. Directives on operational
matters are given to the provincial chairmen by their respective Governors,
and by the Chairman of the NFPCB on all administrative, financial and technical
matters. At the kabupaten (provincial subdivision) level, the NFPCB has a
chairman and a fieldworkers' supervisor with supporting staff. The kabupaten
chairman, directed in operational matters by the Bupati (Chief Executive) and
responsible to the Chairman of the NFPCB on technical matters, works closely
with representatives of the implementing units in the kabupaten, coordinating
program activities and exercising supervisory powers within his jurisdiction.
Educational information and service activities at the kecamatan (subdistrict)
level are organized and provided by various representatives of the implementing
/1 This plan was subsequently modified in 1974 to fit the development pattern
of the Second Five-Year Plan (Repelita II) and, in the same year, the
program was extended to 10 selected provinces outside Java and Bali.
/2  Java/Bali:      Jakarta; DI Yogyakarta; East, West and Central Java; and
(6)          Bali.
Other Islands:  Aceh; North, West and South Sumatra; Lampung; West and
(10)         South Kalimantan; North and South Sulawesi; and West
Nusatenggara.



- 9 -
units and by nonmedical NFPCB workers. At the village level, recruiting
acceptors and sustaining their practice of contraception is the responsibil-
ity of the Lurah (village headman), the NFPCB nonmedical fieldworkers, and
the midwife from the Ministry of Health (MOH), assisted by voluntary family
planning workers from the village.
Service Delivery, Supply and Reporting
29.       As of March 1977, there was a total of 3,620 outlets providing
family planning services in the six provinces of Java.and Bali (2,719) and
the 10 provinces in the other islands (901).    Located in hospitals, public
health centers and clinics, some 80% of the outlets are operated by the MOH,
8.5% by the Armed Forces (ABRI) Health Services (which are open to and serve
the civilian population), and the remainder by other Government agencies
and private doctors. In addition, the NFPCB is providing financial support
to some 1,600 mobile teams of health and family planning workers in order to
take services into rural areas where access to clinics is difficult. Since
1974, vigorous steps have been taken to ensure that the resupply of oral
contraceptives and condoms to users is as convenient as possible. To this
end, village contraceptive distribution centers (VCDCs) have been widely
established in Java (28,000) and Bali (about 3,300) and, as supply points,
outnumber clinics 9 to 1. In Java, VCDCs are operated by a variety of indi-
viduals, including satisfied acceptors, staff of the Lurah, and members of
village organizations set up by the Ministry of the Interior. In Bali,
contraceptive resupply has been integrated into the traditional and unique
banjar (hamlet) administrative system, a monthly meeting of all family
heads to discuss various matters, including promotion of family planning
activities.
30.       The NFPCB's Bureau of Logistics is responsible for procuring contra-
ceptives and for maintaining a steady supply line to all outlets. In 1971
(with substantial support from USAID) a comprehensive, standardized reporting
system was introduced to provide service data and feedback. Data on monthly
activities relating to new acceptors, supplies, revisits, contraceptive use
and achievements in terms of targets, are received from an average of 95% of
all static service outlets in Java and Bali and 84% in the provinces of the
other islands, in time to be processed and published by the 25th of each
succeeding month with a speed, accuracy and completeness that is unique in
major national family planning programs.
Community Education and Information
31.       In Java and Bali, community education in family planning is primar-
ily carried out by nonmedical fieldworkers. The overall program is planned,
directed and supervised at the national level by a special bureau of the
NFPCB, with provincial coordinators doing detailed planning, providing
implementation guidance and supervising performance of the provincial pro-
grams. At each kabupaten a supervisor, working through a group leader and
field workers attached to public health centers (PUSKESMAS), is in charge of
overall operations. In addition to the NFPCB's input, family planning is
included in the health education programs of the MOH clinics. Information
officers attached to the Ministries of Religious Affairs and of Information,



- 10 -
who are largely face-to-face communication workers, offer community education
at the kecamatan level in all provinces covered by the national program.
This face-to-face communication includes orientation of community leaders,
youth groups and special teams to carry out informational and educational
activities at the kecamatan and village levels. Community education in
family planning is also provided by paramedical staff of the PUSKESMAS as
part of their health education activities.
32.       Public information on family planning is handled through a variety
of sources, including the setting up and maintaining of provincial information
offices and centers, use of audio-visual aids and films at organized meetings,
coverage in radio and television programs, and the publication and distribu-
tion of leaflets, posters, bulletins and magazines. A number of communica-
tions personnel involved in the program have participated in training programs
in the United States, India, Japan and the Philippines; others have gone on
study tours of neighboring Asian countries, and some on conducted tours to
program sites in Indonesia.
Staff Training
33.       In the period 1968-71, the IPPA established a National Training and
Research Center in Jakarta as well as provincial and subprovincial training
centers (PTCs/STCs) in the six provinces of Java and Bali. These institutions
trained volunteers, staff and field personnel of the IPPA, doctors, nurses,
social workers and staff from the MOH and other Government agencies. With
the establishment in 1970 of the national program, training needs greatly
increased. The NFPCB set up a Bureau of Education and Training and appointed
project leaders to the provincial offices. Training was carried out by the
IPPA and MOH, with the NFPCB meeting costs.
34.       During the period 1969/70-1973/74, almost 41,000 persons, including
physicians, paramedical staff, field workers, midwives, information officers,
social workers and logistics personnel, were trained; in addition, workshops
and seminars were conducted for curricula development and special subject
areas. In 1976, concerned with variations in training concepts, methods
and standards resulting from having two different institutions (IPPA and MOH)
handling staff training, the NFPCB decided to create a national training
system under its administrative control.
Program Accomplishments
35.       In each year since 1972/73 the program has achieved its target and
from its inception (in 1969/70) to the end of March 1977, some 9.0 million new
acceptors had been recruited. In Java and Bali, where the program has progres-
sively been recruiting younger and less well-educated women whose husbands are
most likely to be farmers or fishermen, figures for 1975/76 show that 67% of
new acceptors were in the 15-29 year age group, an equal percentage had three
or fewer children, and 93% had received less than a primary education. In the



- II -
provinces outside Java and Bali, where the program was started in 1974, a
"typical" acceptor is a 29-year old woman, with about four living children,
whose husband is a tradesman or Government official. In terms of methods
selected by new acceptors in Java and Bali, use of oral contraceptives has
increased dramatically from around 28% of all methods selected in 1969/70 to
about 67% in 1976/77; on the other hand, the IUD declined from a high of about
55% in 1969/70 to a low of about 12% in 1975/76, but had increased in the
1976/77 program year to over 18%. Acceptance of the condom has fluctuated from
about 18% of all methods in the first year of the program, down to around 5%
in 1971/72, back up to about 19% in 1975/76, and down once more to about 13%
in 1976/77.   Other methods, including injectables and sterilization, are
insignificant components of the contraceptive mix. The pattern of acceptance
in the provinces of the other islands does not differ to any great degree from
that of Java and Bali.
36.       In addition to the program's success in recruiting large numbers of
new acceptors, there has been a continual increase in the number of current
users. As of March 1977, it was estimated that in Java and Bali some 24.1%
of married women in the reproductive age group (15-44 years), and about 6.2%
in the 10 provinces of the other islands, were currently practicing contracep-
tion. Taking the population of Indonesia as a whole, the March 1977 rate was
17.7%.
Joint IDA/UNFPA-Assisted Project
Background
37.       At the request of the Government, a project was appraised in June
1971 by a joint Bank/UNFPA mission, and resulted in the granting of an IDA
Credit (300-IND) of $13.2 million and a UNFPA Grant of an equal amount. The
Credit/Grant became effective on November 2, 1972, with IDA acting as execut-
ing agency. As of April 30, 1977, some 50% of the joint funds had been
disbursed.
38.       The objective of the IDA/UNFPA-assisted project is to assist the
Government in developing and strengthening its efforts in the field of family
planning. The project's components cover a wide range of activities, includ-
ing: construction and equipment of paramedical training schools, maternal
child health/family planning (MCH/FP) centers, provincial and subprovincial
training centers (PTCs and-STCs), and one central and six provincial NFPCB
administrative centers; salary support for nonmedical field workers; provision
of mobile information units and transport for MCH/FP staff workers; support
for a population education program, an extension of the hospital postpartum
program, and for research and evaluation activities; and technical asistance
and fellowship support for program management and project implementation.
Implemementation
39.       Because of its inadequate management experience, the NFPCB estab-
lished a project implementation unit (PIU) to handle construction, accounting,
procurement and project management functions. As the NFPCB's management cap-
ability improved, the PIU functions (with the exception of the construction



- 12 -
unit which is at the point of being assimilated into the NFPCB Secretariat)
have been absorbed by the appropriate bureaus. Under the project, foreign
management consultants were contracted to assist the PIU in its implementation,
and various other agencies, including UNICEF, UNESCO, WHO and the Population
Council, provided technical assistance in the field of training, demonstration
and vehicle procurement and maintenance.
Progress under the Project
40.       Funds provided under the project are being well utilized to assist
in the recruitment and training of nonmedical field workers, the strengthen-
ing of the evaluation and research capability of the NFPCB, support for a
population education program, extension of the hospital postpartum program,
and technical assistance and fellowship support for information/communication
activities and for program management and project implementation. As a result
of workshops and seminars designed to assist in the process of rationalizing
the 28 classes of paramedical staff employed by the MOH, the concept of the
community health nurse (PKK) has been finalized and the MOH plans to have
31,500 PKKs trained by 1980. In the field of evaluation and research, funds
have been used to conduct studies for providing data and evaluating ongoing
activities, the postpartum program has been extended to a total of 86 hospi-
tals, and over 8,000 field workers and supervisory staff have been trained.
The objective of the population education component was to assist the Govern-
ment in introducing this subject into school curricula. To this end, tech-
nical assistance was provided and resulted in the introduction of population
education into schools in a pilot area. Evaluation of the pilot program
has shown that it was well received by teachers, pupils and the community,
and the Government now intends to work towards including population education
as part of the national education programs of the Ministry of Education.
41.       Under the project the NFPCB (with UNICEF assistance) has procured
four-wheel drive vehicles, minibuses, motorcycles and bicycles to provide the
program with much needed mobility; for the information program, mobile units
have been procured and are in use in the Java and Bali kabupatens. The NFPCB
has established systems and procedures to cover the operation and maintenance
of its vehicles, including those provided by other donors and procured from
local resources.
42.       Due in part to the inexperience of the NFPCB in a program of this
size, construction got off to a slow start. With the NFPCB's staff becoming
increasingly familiar with Indonesian construction requirements and the
establishment of effective tendering procedures, a unit of the NFPCB has
evolved that is capable of managing a large and diverse construction program.
To date, 45 MCCH/FP centers, five PTCs and 10 STCs have been completed, the
central NFPCB office building and 50 MCH/FP centers are under construction,
and tenders for all remaining civil works under the project are scheduled
to be let in the next few months. Due to a change in the paramedical staffing
pattern subsequent to the start of the project, one nurse-midwifery school is
no longer needed and has been deleted from the construction program. In
addition, since the Government, through its INPRES program, has built or
rehabilitated a total of 3,675 public health/family planning centers (45% in



- 13 -
Java and Bali) and the national program is moving towards a service system
based to a lesser extent on static service outlets than was envisaged at
conception of the project, there appeared to be no need to use project
funds for construction of 223 MCH/FP centers in Java and Bali. A formal
proposal to curtail the civil works program was put forward by the Govern-
ment and has been approved by the Bank and the UNFPA. Funds released will
be used to cover cost increases (due to inflation) of the remaining civil
works.
43.       Since the Bank Group's first association with the national program
(1969), the NFPCB's budget has grown 12 times and the number of new acceptors
recruited has increased from about 53,000 to almost 2 million. The Government
has provided increasing financial support to the program. Estimated expendi-
tures have risen from $2.1 million in 1968/69 to $25.5 million in 1975/76; in
the same period, foreign donor support (primarily from USAID and the joint
IDA/ UNFPA-assisted project) has risen from $2.0 million to $13.0 million.
In comparison with other national programs of similar size, the Indonesian
program's achievements are impressive. The success of the program is in
no small measure due to the way in which the Government has made use of
indigenous administrative and social systems to expand family planning
activities and in its capability and willingness to learn from experience
and make necessary changes.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.       The proposed project is based on the medium-term plans of the NFPCB
which, in the context of its long-term goal of reducing fertility levels by
50% in the period 1976-2000, has developed a program strategy through the end
of the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1983-84). In this period, the pro-
gram's objective is to reduce the birth rate to 34 per 1,000 population from
about 44 per 1,000 in 1970. In program terms, this reduction in fertility
will be achieved by raising the percentage of current users to at least 35%
in Java and Bali, 25% for the 10 provinces in the other islands, and 15% for
the remaining provinces where the program will start in 1979. To attain these
targets the program will need to recruit about 20.3 million new acceptors in
the next seven years; improve continuation rates; and transfer to the community
and individuals the sense of urgent commitment to family planning that now
exists at the higher levels of Government, and incorporate in all Government
development programs the concept of fertility moderation.
45.       To this end, the NFPCB proposes to improve delivery services, expand
service outlets, increase the number of VCDCs, develop local oral contraceptive
production, improve support services in the fields of training, education,
program management and research and evaluation, intensify the involvement of
provincal and community authorities, and, through more intensive information,
education and community activities, instill a greater awareness among indivi-
duals and community institutions of the small family norm and its social and
economic benefits.



- 14 -
46.       Appraised in October 1976, the proposed project was negotiated in
Washington from May 9 to May 12, 1977; the Government delegation was led by
Dr. Suwardjono Surjaningrat (Chairman of the NFPCB). The Appraisal Report,
No. 1534a-IND, dated May 31,1977 is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately; a supplementary data sheet is contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Components
47.       Designed to support the national family planning program in Java,
Bali and the 10 provinces in the other islands towards the achievement of the
NFPCB's medium-term plans, the proposed project's specific objectives are to:
(a) enhance the mobility of family planning staff by enabling them to
offer services to population groups who cannot now easily avail
themselves of services provided by static outlets;
(b) assist in widening and strengthening the national program's
education and motivation activities aimed at providing widespread
acceptance of the small family norm and contraceptive practice;
and
(c) support the administration of the national program by providing
facilities and technical assistance for its plan of achieving a
national contraceptive production capability.
48.       The proposed project consists of the following components:
(i) provision of four-wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles and small
motorboats, as well as IUD and public health nurse kits for users
of the motorcycles financed under the project as well as those now
in use without kits;
(ii) construction and equipment of facilities for the NFPCB's Bureau
of Education and Training in Jakarta, and one PTC and NFPCB office
building (to be constructed in conjunction with and on the same
sites as the PTCs) in each of the 10 provinces outside Java and
Bali; and
(iii) research studies aimed at (a) introduction of a pilot community
incentive scheme to promote family planning in economically under-
developed kecamatans; and (b) the feasibility of providing raw
materials for local contraceptive production using botanical
material available in Indonesia.
In addition, the proposed project makes provision for technical assistance,
fellowships, special equipment and other support for the national training
program; integration of population education into formal school curricula
and non-formal education programs; maintenance and operation of vehicles,
equipment and civil works financed under the project; and the two research
studies included in the project.



- 15 -
Detailed Project Features
49.       Mobile Family Planning Services:   In order to reach kabupaten
residents who, because of distance or difficult terrain, cannot easily avail
themselves of the services offered by the static centers, provision is made
for the supply of about 274 four-wheel drive vehicles and eight small motorboats,
together with service (IUD insertion kits, etc.) and motivation (cassette
tape recorders, etc.) equipment. For midwives working from public health
centers at the kecamatan level, the project will provide about 1,661 motorcycles,
equipped with IUD and public health nurse kits. In addition, kits will also
be provided for 1,405 nursing teams which currently have unequipped transport.
All the motorboats, plus 172 four-wheel drive and 1,378 two-wheel vehicles,
will be operated by the MOH, and the balance by ABRI,/1 the two primary
implementing units of the NFPCB. Distribution of these vehicles among
provinces has been determined on the basis of area remoteness and nonavaila-
bility of reliable transport. All vehicles will be identifiable by color,
marking and registration as being owned by the NFPCB, which will be respons-
ible for their maintenance, and all drivers of the four-wheel drive vehicles
will be civilian personnel. Under the IDA/UNFPA-assisted project, tech-
nical assistance was provided to assist the NFPCB in organizing, managing
and maintaining its vehicle fleet, and comprehensive instructions covering
these aspects were issued in 1975. Assurances have been obtained from the
Government that arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, will be made to
monitor from time to time the operation and maintenance of vehicles provided
under the proposed project (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement).
50.       Training:  In order to establish a cohesive national training
system which would provide unified technical guidance to trainers, ensure
standardized curricula based on program needs, and carry out routine evalua-
tions of training activities, the NFPCB plans to develop and expand its Bureau
of Education and Training in Jakarta; prepare a system to cover organization,
administration, strategy and evaluation; transfer to its supervision the train-
ing institutions and staff presently under the direction and responsibility of
the IPPA; and establish PTCs and NFPCB offices in each of the 10 provinces
outside Java and Bali covered by the second phase of the program.
51.       Under the proposed project funds are provided for the construction,
equipment and establishment of the expanded Bureau of Education and Training
(which is headed by a Chief, administratively responsible to the NFPCB's
Deputy Chairman for Program Development) and of the 10 PTCs and provincial
offices, as well as support for provision of specialized equipment, transport,
educational material, technical assistance, fellowships, audio-visual material
production, and salaries and operating costs. The PTCs will be responsible
/1 The ABRI health services, available to civilians as well as military
personnel, are an integral part of the national family planning program
and in 1975/76 were responsible for recruiting almost 75,000 new acceptors,
of whom about 40% were civilians.



- 16 -
for training in the provinces in which they are situated; each will be
staffed by a Director, a deputy, an administrative coordinator and five
trainers. Administrative control of the PTCs will rest with the respective
provincial NFPCB chairmen. Until such time as the new PTC facilities are
completed (around mid-1979), the IPPA will continue to be responsible for
training in the provinces outside Java and Bali. The provincial offices, to
be built on the same sites as the PTCs, will be used to house administrative
staff and provide information on family planning to program personnel as well
as the general public. Assurances have been obtained from the Government
that it would submit to the Bank, for approval, proposals for the locations
of the PTCs and provincial offices (Section 3.08(b) of the Loan Agreement).
52.       Population Education:   Under the IDA/UNFPA-assisted project, funds
were provided to assist the Government in introducing population education
into school curricula and non-formal community education programs. Financing
is included under the proposed project to continue and extend these activities
by providing support for teacher training, production of teaching materials,
technical assistance, research and evaluation of the program, and fellowships
for overseas training of staff of the Ministry of Education.
53.       Research Studies
(i) Community Incentive Scheme: Such evidence as is available points
to the conclusion that the sustained practice of family planning depends to
a large degree on improvements in socio-economic conditions. A comparison
made between the average cumulative acceptors per 1,000 married women in the
reproductive age group (15-44 years) in the poorest and most densely populated
kecamatans /1 and other kecamatans in Java and Bali indicates that, except
for Central Java, there is a distinct relationship between socio-economic
conditions and family planning program outputs. The primary objective of
the study is to see whether the promotion and acceptance of the small family
norm by the individuals and the communities can be fostered through the appli-
cation of rewards for pre-defined community achievements in family planning.
To this end, 14 of the poorest and most densely populated kecamatans in Java,
Bali, North Sumatera and South Sulawesi will be selected, of which seven will
have above average and seven below average family planning performance. The
15 or so villages in each kecamatan will be given specific fertility reduction
targets to achieve; these targets will be connected to the NFPCB's national
long-term targets as applied to the provinces in which the kecamatans are
situated. A simple linear decline indicates that, if the national target is
to be achieved, each community would need to reduce its fertility by at least
1.7% per year. An amount of Rp 10 million (about $24,000) in incentive funds
will be made available to each kecamatan, and villages that exceed their fertil-
ity reduction target will be rewarded by a proportionate allocation of these
funds, to be used for development activity projects pre-selected by the
community. Projects might include construction of a community hall, school
/1 Average population densities between 1,000 and 4,000/sq km and a value of
production per capita/year of less than Rp 21,000 ($50.60) in 1973 prices.



- 17 -
classroom, roads, additional MCH/FP facilities, or capital for the develop-
ment of alternative economic opportunities. At present, INPRES development
funds in these villages average Rp 300,000 (about $720) annually; if necessary,
the allocation of incentive funds will be adjusted to take into account the
absorptive capacity of the community. As an essential part of the scheme,
communities will be required to promote family planning activities through
existing or specially created community organizations, such as the VCDCs.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that, within four months
of the end of each fiscal year, it would submit to the Bank, for review, a
detailed report on the progress of the study, and consultations would be held
on the scope and form of the scheme (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
(ii) Oral Contraceptive Raw Materials Feasibility Study: Estimates made
in March 1977 show that the chosen method of some 62% of all continuing
family planning acceptors was oral contraceptives, and that about 30 million
cycles were consumed in 1976/77. This figure is expected to increase to
about 56 million by 1983/84. Up to September 1976, some 99% of the national
program's supplies were provided free of charge by USAID (the remainder by
other donors, with limited additional purchases by the Government). Since
that date, USAID supplies have been provided on a loan basis ($7.5 million
loan for this purpose given in US FY76/77). To reduce its dependence on
foreign supplies and establish its own oral contraceptive production cap-
ability, an agreement was reached in early 1976 between the NFPCB and Kimia
Pharma (a Government-controlled pharmaceutical manufacturer) whereby the
latter would establish a production capacity of 18 million cycles per annum
in its Bandung factory. The plant is scheduled to commence production by the
end of 1977, and by 1980 the Government plans to establish a plant in Jakarta
capable of producing 50 million cyles per annum using imported raw materials.
The Government now proposes to initiate a study to determine the possibility
of using locally grown botanical materials for production of the necessary
raw materials. The study, for which the proposed project provides equipment,
operating costs, and support for a fellowship program of 18 man-months of
overseas training in pharmaceutical work related to oral contraceptive produc-
tion and 21 man-months of technical assistance, will be the responsibility of
a project coordinator (appointed by the NFPCB), advised by a Committee whose
members will include, among others, representatives of the MOH, Forestry
Department, and Bogor Agricultural University. Assurances have been obtained
from the Government that, within 20 months after the commencement, and within
three months after completion of the study, it would submit to the Bank for
review a detailed report on the progress of the study and the oral contraceptive
needs and sources of supply for the program, and consult the Bank on the tech-
nical and economic desirability of continuing the study (Section 3.05 of the
Loan Agreement).
Implementation
54.       The NFPCB, through its own organization and those of its imple-
menting units, will have overall responsibility for project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation. The NFPCB Secretariat, reinforced by staff currently
working on the IDA/ UNFPA-assisted project, would have immediate responsibility
for implementation of the civil works component. Assurances have been obtained



- 18 -
from the Government that, by October 31, 1977, (a) all sites required for
the facilities to be constructed under the project will have been acquired;
and (b) an adequate number of full-time, qualified and experienced officers
will have been appointed to assist the NFPCB in implementing the construc-
tion program (Sections 3.08 and 3.10 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The estimated project cost is $60.0 million, of which $10.6 million
(17.7%) would be in foreign exchange. Cost estimates include physical
contingencies of about 10% of base civil works costs and price contingencies
averaging 32.3% of base costs and physical contingencies. Provisions against
price increases due to inflation amount to $14.7 million, or 24.5% of total
project cost. Costs for overseas training and study tours are based on
billing rates of about $1,100/man-month, and for foreign advisors billing
rates used are about $6,000/man-month.
56.       The proposed loan of $24.5 million would finance 40.8% of total
project costs, made up of the total foreign exchange cost of the project and
$13.9 million of local costs. Some local currency financing is justified in
social sector projects such as this for reasons discussed earlier (para. 12).
The loan would have a repayment term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of
grace. The Government would provide the NFPCB with the remaining $35.5 mil-
lion, which includes all incremental operating costs of $22.8 million and
site development costs of $3.9 million, out of annual budget appropriations.
Procurement
57.       Vehicles (estimated to cost $3.2 million) would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. For
purposes' of bid evaluation, a preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods, or the level of actual customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to qualified domestic manufacturers of these goods. Items
of furniture, office and training equipment, materials and supplies are di-
verse and specialized and cannot be packaged in lots suitable for international
competitive bidding. Accordingly, they would be purchased through locally
advertised contracts following usual Government procedures, which have been
reviewed under previous Bank-assisted projects and are acceptable. Contracts
in excess of $50,000 in value would be submitted to the Bank for review
before bidding and award. Small off-the-shelf items of furniture, equipment,
supplies and materials, in packages costing less than $10,000 each and
limited to an aggregate total of $200,000, would be purchased through normal
Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. There are sufficient
suppliers of these goods to ensure adequate competition.
58.       Civil works (estimated to cost $5.4 million) would be tendered on
the basis of 11 separate contracts - one for the NFPCB's Bureau of Education
and Training in Jakarta and one for each of the 10 provincial family planning
centers (comprising a PTC and provincial NFPCB office). Since construction



- 19 -
sites are scattered over a wide area and contracts (estimated to range from
$300,000 to $670,000 each) will be small, they would be of little interest to
international contractors. Contracts for civil works would, therefore, be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with normal
Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign contractors
would not be excluded from bidding. All civil works contracts would be
submitted to the Bank for review prior to award.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursements of the proposed loan would cover:
(a) 100% of total costs for civil works;
(b) 100% of total costs of studies, surveys, workshops, seminars, and
preparation and production of training aids;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for professional fees, consultants and
overseas fellowships;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles, furni-
ture, materials and equipment; 95% of local ex-factory expenditures
for locally manufactured furniture, materials and equipment; 65% for
locally procured imported furniture and equipment; and 40% of local
expenditures for locally assembled vehicles.
The NFPCB will maintain a separate project account and be responsible for
submitting all reimbursement applications to the Bank. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that copies of audited project accounts will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
60.       By providing support for the strengthening and expansion of the
national family planning training program, the proposed project will enable
the NFPCB to ensure improved program management and supervision, enhanced
professional and technical skills, an expanded number of trained VCDC volun-
teer workers, and greater awareness among community officials and leaders of
the need for commitment to the concept of family planning. Provision of
equipped vehicles to staff of the implementing units will not only lead to an
extension of services to population groups who cannot easily avail themselves
of services provided by the present static service outlets, but will promote
cooperation between family planning staff and the communities they serve and,
in time, facilitate a better appreciation of the economic and social benefits
of the small family norm and acceptance of contraceptive practice. In addi-
tion, linking maternal and child health services with family planning activi-
ties will contribute to a reduction in infant mortality which, in the long
run, should result in a decline in fertility.



- 20 -
61.       The proposed project's support for the population education program
will result in greater awareness of population issues among young people and
this awareness should, in tlh i.nger term, facilitate a more ready response to
family planning motivation work. By providing data and information on the
possible linkages between improved socio-economic conditions and fertility,
results obtained from the pilot community incentive scheme will be of great
value to the program's planning staff. These results should provide insights
into the ways and means of achieving the strategy objectives of transferring
to the community and individuals the sense of urgent commitment to family
planning that now exists at the higher levels of Government, and of incor-
porating the concept of fertility moderation in all Government development
programs. The oral contraceptive raw materials study will not only provide
the Government with the information it needs to support its policy of estab-
lishing a local manufacturing capability, but will also directly benefit the
national program by providing a core of professionals with training in
pharmaceutical work related to oral contraceptive research and production,
which at present is totally lacking in Indonesia.
62.       The contribution of the proposed project towards a reduction in the
rate of growth of the population will assist the Government's efforts to
alleviate pressures on agricultural land, particularly in Java and Bali, and
will also eventually enable a reallocation of resources from the social
sectors (health, education and housing) to those productive investments
needed to improve national economic performance. Given that entrants into
the labor force for the next 15 years or so have already been born, fertility
trends are unlikely to have any major impact on the size of the labor force
before the year 2000, and even a sharp decline in fertility would not signifi-
cantly contribute to alleviating the employment problem. However, the anti-
cipated pace of fertility decline should affect the proportion of the labor
force to the total population by more than 10%, thereby causing a significant
decline in the dependency burden. Project risks are no greater than can
normally be expected with operations of this type.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III of this Report.



- 21 -
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 31, 1977
Washington, D.C.






AM1EXI I
TABLE 3A                                        Page 1 of Jo pages
INDONESIA. SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KMM......
.........                                            IOF7kEKVE'C                                   CJO1T0IES (jq7lu)
TOTAL         28003.8                        1 960       19 70    FSTImATE            BAGLAOESH         1401A            PM ILI VOI NE?
*NP PER CAPITA rUSS)                            72, 11.0               10-090--------40.
POOPULA-TION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PClPULATIoN C7yD.YR.     MILLI7N)            95. 0       IIb.3      1 31 ,6                70,A         5 4 7,6       3h,6
PO.PULATTI)N DENSITY
PER SGLAR     c.50,0                                   61 0        690                  090          167.0         1 2 3
PER SO. AM, AGRICULTIIRAL LAND            3 50        ol          030620                             300           2 7 9,0
VITAL STATISYTCS
;RUDE SIRTWO RATE C/IHOU, AV)              06,0        0 5,9       02, 9                 5n,3          41.0         002
CRUDE-DEATH RATE (/TA40U,AV)               25.0        20.6        16,9                  22.9          19.0         13.2
XNPANT MORTALITY RATE f/THOU)            125 . 0La,, b   .            ,.100,                                        d(0.0
LIFE ExPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             Jo7.5          .         o.O                  o3. 3        " 7 .2        bS.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     ?*0L        3,2         3.1                   3,1           2,9          3.3
POPULA.TION GRoWTH RATE 10
TOTA L                                      2,1         2.          2.5/a                 2.   /        2. 3         3,0
URBaAN                                       ..         I7 /a       0.                      *.I         3 .?         4, 0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)                10.9        017,SA       1S,2                   6.4,        19,0         27.6
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENTi
STO jA YEARS                            U2,1 IA    i040          4s39 4b 6.i4 01.                           5.6    si
15TO 60 YEARS                            55.1 7a     5 3.5       3.:6                  1.0        55 .3         SI1. 6
65 YEARS AND OVER                           2 67a       2, 5        2.5 ~b                 2.6          3 .1         2.08
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                          0.R           .          0.9                   1.0          0,2          (,.q
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1.I.                    1.3 /c                1.6 /b       I . la         .5
FILMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                 .        259.l/3    6786.2 /d                 ..      1585 .0        35a ,0
USERS   (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 ,            ..                                ,,                       2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TTLLORFORCE (THOUSAND)             4 6 00,0          ,     U200.0 /             22300.0      2 1 00 00.0o  12300,0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)                75.0                    60'.~                 71,0         b9,0         5.(/
UNEMPLOYED (S OF'LAOOR FORCE)                 5,o           =..Ax                                           ,           .
INCOME. DISTRIBUTION
SOF PRIVATE yNCOOE REC'D 0Y.
HIGHEST    55 OF HOUSEHOLDS                  ,,,                   33,7                  1./          25.
II1I4EST ao5 OF: HOuSEHOLDS                  S,,                    2.0 /c.f             423   C      53,'1
LOWEST    201 OF' HOUSEHOLDS                 .*.                    6,89                    7 9-         .7
LOMEST    AlX OF'HOUSENOLDS                  .            ,        1 7,I~Cf              19.61         13 ,1
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND 7MNERSHIP
S OWNED BY TOP 105 OF DANERS      os~~~~j,.nL A  ,,                             30, 
I OWNED SY SMALLEST 103       T.WNERS         1,n /b        I,          ,                    1
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       0~~~~a1 3B0.0 A  2b370,0  16870,0               76o0.oLi     0890,0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                   .      7630.0 d     7290.OL 0 S20300O0e                5220.0~
POPULATION PER M0SPITAL BED                I 37 0,b    I1600 .0  e 1050,0                M1 2 0.      16 10    0 .   85 0,0
PER CAPITA SUPPL.Y OPF
CALORIES (I OF REOUJIREMENTS)              09,0        91.0        98,0                     ,,          3,o        10(00
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER 2A01                    03.0        a3.0,,,                                        53,o          45,0
.OF;WHICH ANI9MAL6AND PULSE             15.0        19,            .,                    ,           .0          2 2. 0
DEATH RATE (,?MOU) AGES 1.04,                               ,           ,                      ,,                      9.0
EDULC ATI ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL,                            59,0        69,0        79. 0                 5 0 o        6 b0          0 0,.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL.L                          6,0        1 2,0       19, 0                 15.0                        a 40,
YEARS DF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
CF.IRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  1 2. 0      12,0        12, 0                 1 a 0        1 2.0         10
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X'OF SECONDARY)                          20.0         29. 0       32. 0                  1.0          6 S,  /d      b, 0 
ADULT LITERACY RATE (5                        7.0        59,0         62,0ozl                            33.o
H4OUSING
PE;;SONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                        ,,           ,          ,6                    ,             ,           2,1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Xi,                                          ,          .,                     ,,                      76,0
ACCESS.TO.ELECTRICITY
(SO DFALL DWELLINGS)                                                  .*.                                 ,         23, 0
RURAL PWELLINGB CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                           ,,     ~                 .,                                  ,7,0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                7.0       110,0        49,0LI                  6,0         21,0         65,0
PASSENGER CABS (PER THOU POP)                  1.0         2.0         2.0                   1,0          l.n           0.,0
ELECTRICITY (gWH/YR PER CAP)                 15.0        20,0         27,0                 20,0n        114,01       235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     0 .2         0. 3        0,5                    ,,          0,3          2 . 
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



giNEX I
Page 2 of 4 Pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for -1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Mos~t Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
o  Including West Irian.
cmThe Philippines han heen selected as an ohjecti-e country for its geographical similarity and heaoe o...If its apparent ad-oncd stage of economic
development.
lNDONii IA       1960     /a  gocldes West Irian;        Lb   1962;     Ic  1951-56;      /d  1961-63;      /e  10 years and ovr, ability to read or write in
either Latin or mon-Latin charactern.
1970     Ia  1961-71;      /b   191       I    98to 1970;        /d   Including midwives;       /0  Ttl      opia      e    noplete.
MOST RECENT ~ESTIMATI~:     Ia   1970-75;     /b   1976;     Ic  1971;     /d   1969 to 1975;      Ie  Miostly unemployed workers se6king their
first job;      If  Income recipients;~      /I  Including midwives-       lb   1972;     Ii   10 years and mor
ability to read or write in either Latin or non-Latin characters;             fi  Not comparable with 1970.
BANCLAIIEI       1970     /a  The 1970-75 population growth. rate is abnormally low doe to the effects of the war of independence and mans              populoti-s
moveents    -acos the borders during that period.       Presently, the average popolation growth rate is estimated at 37.
per a.nms;      /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;             Ic   1966-67;     Id   1967-68;
In  Registered, not all practLicin.g in the country;         If  Govenmet hospital establishments only;            L.&  Approolmate
enrollment as percentage of population in 6-li and 11-15 age groups.
INDIA            1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;              /b   1967-hi;     /c   Incloding midwives;
Id 1967.
PHILIPPINES      1970     /a  As percentage of employment;        lb   Not including private vocational Schools.
R16, May 5, 29377
PIIFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDIICATORlS
Land Area (thou k,2)                                                                         Ppnulation per nurnina peroc1 - Populotion dicided by somber of practicieg
Total -Total sorface ara      oprising land area and inland waters,                           male and femle grdu     -e uen, "traind" or "certified" cuss,ad
boric..- Most recent eactiate of agricoltural area soed temporarily or peen,a-                ateiliary personnel witb training or euperle-e.
meetly for crops, pastores, maket A kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Ppunlation Par hoseitel bed - Po.pulation divided by number of honpicol beda
available in pablic end primate general Sand specialied hospital and
GNP per capita (US1) - CNP per capita estimates at corrent market prices,                      rehabilitation cesters; enclodes noosing homes and eatablinhoents for
calculated by same conser-iot me thod 00 World Bank Atlae (1973-75 basin);                  nostodie1 and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per capita asppel  of calories (% of resuirements) - fomPated fern energy
P.p.1-ion ..d vital -1i.ti.-                                            q-~~~~~~~yivalent of net food Supplies avilable in caunnEry per capita per day;
puyeim  ndsra  stetiscic.  S  r                                                        evetieblo suPPlies  -oprlne dometic producion., import      lense-porta. and
ponu1Lacio  (mid-ya     ilo)-A        fJly first:     if mar asilable, aserge                  changeas in stock; net nuppliet eoclode animal feed, seeds, quontities used
of two end-year eoti-,tes; 11-60, 1970 and 1975 dare.                                        in fomd procesning and looses in dietribution; requir-emets were estimated
by PAD based ma physiological needs for norssa activity and health consid-
Population density -per Square Ion - Mid-year population per Square kilenseter                 ering environmental temperatore, body weights, age and sen distributions of
(105 hectares) of total area.                                                               popuaetion. end allowing 15% fee wate at house.hold lese.
Ponulation deneity -per Square ins of asric. land - Computed as above for                    Per ..eits  Sepply of protein (grama pec dey) - Protein -cnent of Per topita
aigricultural land only.                                                                      net Supply of food per dey; net Supply of food is defined as above; require-
meets for all countries esatbliohed by USDA Ec.onoic Rlesearch Services
Vial statistics                                                                              Provide for a minimsos allowannce of 60 grams. of total ProceSs per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand. average - Annual live births per thoasand of                    20 grams of animal and Pulan Protein, of which 10 grams Should he animal
mld-yeer popolation; ten-year arilmse tc averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these snendards ar    lowr than those of 75 gram     of total proteic
end,d fivo-yea  average ending in 1975 for mae t recent eatimats.                             and 23 gras  of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Cuedahrate net thousand, average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                in the Third World Food Survey.
Population ; ten-year arithentic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Per capita protein Supply from animal and pulse - Protein Supply of food
year averge ending in 1971 for meet recent estima te,                                        derived from aniceis and pulses in goons per day.
Infant mortality rate (/thoa) - Annual deethn of infants under one year of age               Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths Per thousand in age group I-A
per thousa nd livebbirtho.                                                                   years, to children in this age gr.up; -sugested as an indicator of
.i fe esoectancy   c abirth lyre) - Averge eomber of yearn of life remaining at                malntrition.
birth; usua lly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dovelop-
leg co-tries.                                                                              Education,
Gr.u. reProduction rate - Average somber of live daughters a woma       will bear            Adjus ted enrollment ratio - prlmary School - Enrollment of all age. as Par-
is her norma   reproductive period if she esperience. present age-specific                   centage of primar.y school-age Populaticon; includes children aged 6-11 year
fertility raten ; usually fiv-yea     avereges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjuated fur different lengtbs of Primar     edn...t ion; for countries with
fur developing countries,                                                                    universal educa.tion,  -.11-mat may    -eed 100. nisca Somn Pupils ace below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growtb rates of mid-year                  or above the official school age.
Population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adjusted enro1llent ratio - secondary ncbool - Computed an above; secodary
Population groth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                         education requires at least four Yours of approvd primary inatLructian;
population; differeat definitiona of urban areas may affect comprarbility of                 providea general, vocational or teacher training instructions for Pupilu
data among cos-tries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 yearn of age; -ocrenpondence courses are generally encluded.
Ulrben Population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to tsts1 population; different              Years of Schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total yeeru of
definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countries.                 echooling; at Secondary level, voctional instruction may be Partially or
completely e..eloded.
Aoe structure (Percent) - Children (0-li years), woking-age (15-64 year.s),                  Voca.tional enrollment (7. of secondary) - Vocational insci,tuions    include
and retired (6) years and over) as percentages of mid-yeer Population.                       technaical, industrial or other Programs which operate independently or as
Agoe dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                  departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through h4.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (%) - Licorace adults (able to read and write) as per'
Economic dependency ratio - Ratin of Population under 15 and 65 and over to                    ce.ntage of coral adult PoPoIetio- agod 15 years ac-d over.
the labor force is age group of 15-64 years.
Fam ily planning - acceptors   (cumulative, then) - Cumlative comber of acc eptors           Sous ing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national familY pla-so        Program           Persons Per room (urban) - Average somber of persons Per room is occupied
saince ipceptiong-..   .     f   riconventional dwlellings is urban areas; dwnl1isis enclu~de coo-permanent
Eamiy  pannig  -seer  (5of mrrid wmen) - P-eretages of married womn of               Structures and unoocu.pled parts.
child-hearieg ago (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married               O-cuied dwellings without piped water (5) - Oco-pied c--ticonal dwellings
women is same ago grou.p.                                                                     in urban and roral areas withouc inside or outside Piped -tc- facilities
E.plo)-.t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  ~~~spercencage of all --cpied dwellings.
imploymest                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACcessto electricity (7. of all dwellings) - ConentionalI duellimis with
Total labor forcee (thousand) - Economically active Persona, including are.lcrct                             nlvn       uresa        ecn     fttldelnsI              ra    n
force  andunempoyedbut enludng hosnaies,  tudents, etc.; definitions            rural areas.
isnaiu      countries ar   nut comparable.                                                 Rura   dwellinags connec.ted to electricity  (5) - Computed as above for rual
Labor force is agriculture (%) - Agricultural labor force (is farming, forestry,               dwellings only.
hunting end fishing) en percentage of tatal labor force.
Unemployed (5 of labor force) - nemploynd are usually defined as persons who                 Consuption
are able and willing to takea job, out of a job on a given day, re-ained out               Riadio receivers (per tbos pan) - All types of receivers for radio broadcast
of a Job, and seebking work for a Specified ninimom    period not e.ceedieg one              to genera   public per thous..and of Population ; e-clodes unlicesed receivers
week; may not be comparble between coun tries dun to different definitions                   in countries and in yeaurn when registration of radio Sect was is effect;
of unemployed and sonrcs of data, e.g., employment office      -itistics, sample             data for recent years may nta me comparable si-ce mos countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment inuac,licensing.
Incme distribution - Percentage of pri-t. incPassenge r cars (per thou nop) - Passenger cars comprise mater cars sea ting
incoe ditriutio  -  ercetageof  rivae icme (both in task and bind)                 less than eight Persons; e-oldes ambulances, hearses and military
received by richest 5%, richest 207., Poorest 20%, and pooreat 40% of house-                 v-hicles.
helds.                                                                                     Electricity   (kwh/yr per can) - Annual consoPtien of industrial, -ooernial,
Distribution of I..d ownership - Percent                               ~~Public and Private electricity is kilowatt hour    per capita, generally
Distibuton  f lad onereip  Perentges of land owned by weelthisst 10%.                base.d on production data, without allowance for losses in grids but allow-
end Poorest 107. of land owners.                                                              ing for imports end e-parts of electricity.
Health ..d N.tritiM                                                 ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~Newserint (kg/yr Per cap) - Per capita annosl consumption in kilograms
Population per physician - Population divided by number of Practicinget-edfodetcpduinpl.et                                                       potof_pit
physicians qualified from a medical scheol at university level.



ANNEY I
Page 3 of 4 nages
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PROfWCT IN 1975                                         ANNIUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant priCes)
US$ Mil u                                1960 -65           1965 -70            1971-75
GNP at Market Prices            28,146      100.0                          1.9                4.9                7.1
Gross Domestic Investment        6,891       24.5                          3.3               11.5               17.1
Gross National Saving            5,634       20.0                          5.8                5.1
Current Account Balance        -1,257      -  4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS            4,738       16.8                          1.5                7.8                6.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           5,533        19.7                          0.2               10.9               27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIm TY IN 1971
Value Added 1/                 Labor Forc2                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mil       J.                 Mil         L                     t  c
Agriculture                      4,221      44.8                30.5       69.0                  138          65.0
Industry                         1,915      20.3                 3.0        6.8                  638         300.0
Services                         3,279      34.9                 8.3       18.8                  395         185.0
Unallocated                        -         -                   2.4        5.4
Total/Average
9,415     100.0               -n7         2S5213                            iti R-
OOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)                            % of GDP
1976/77*        1975/76                  1975           1974
Current Receipts                     2,904           2,201                   18.1           17.0
Current Expenditure                  1.613           1,247                   10.2           10.2
Current Surplus                      1,291             954                    7.8            7.7
Capital Expenditures                 2,070           1,425                   11.7            9.8
External Assistance                    784             492                    4.0            2.4
* Provisional estimates.
YONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                   1971          1972        1973         1974         1975         1976
TBillion Rp    outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       469           695          987        1,452       1,995        2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector                387           333          357         412        1,637        1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector               317           500          908       1,163        1,353        1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of ODP            12.8          15.2         14.6         14.8         16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 = 100)      642           807        1,028        1,370       1,640        1,873
Annual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                           2.6          25.7         27.4         33.3         19.7        14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                   .1 -4.0                   7.2         15.4        297.3          7.0
Bank credit to Private-Sector                  --          57.7         81.6         28.1         16.3        24.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 - US$1.
2 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. 'Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
April 30, 1977



ANNEX I
Paae 4 of 4 Dages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1974     1975      1976                                                 US $ Mil   . %
(MillIons US$)     Provisional
Exports:                       4351      4738      6033                Oil (net)                         1897      50.4
Oil (net)                    2169      2921      3650                Rubber                             416      11.0
Non oil                       2182     1817      2383                Timber                             602      16.0
Imports                       -4220     -5533    -6297                 Palm oil                           132       3.5
Resource gap                   131    - 795    - 264                 Tin                                138       3.7
Factor service:               - 210     - 462    - 781                 Coffee                              99       2.6
Interest                    -  64     - 178    - 354
Investment income           - 146     - 284    - 427                All other commodities               483     12.8
Balance on Current Account    -   79    -257     -1045                     Total                         3767    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       462       497      432              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                664      2395     2365                                                          us $Mil
Amortization               -  80     - 322    - 435
Subtotal                     584      2073     1930                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            10,140
Capital Grants                   62       ..       ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           - 126     -2250    - 205                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             - 214     -J46 -46   37                                           1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        689     - 983      737              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
%
Gross Reserves (end year)      1473       590     1494
Net Reserves    (end year)     1472       489      1226               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         4       120      152
of which:   Petroleum         1       116      146
Exports
of which:   Petroleum      2169      2921      3650       IBRD/IDA LENDING (April 30. 1977)    Million US$
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through July 1971               Since  August 1971              Outstanding & Disbursed               276.9       428.4
Through     _ July_ 197l    Since  August1971Undisbursed                                          878.6      133.4
US $ 1.00 = Rp 375              US $1.00 = Rp 415                                                   1,155.5       5ff1.8
Rp 1000    = US$2.67            Rp 1000   = US$2.41
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
.  not available
. not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
June 3, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1977)
Loan/                                                           US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                         Amounts (less cancellations)
Number     Year               Purpose                    Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Ten  credits closed                                                113.4       0.0
155       1969    Agricultural Estates                              16.0       0.0
194       1970    Second Agricultural Estates                       17.0       0.5
195       1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation                  18.5       0.5
220       1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                   14.5       0.6
246       1971    Seeds                                              7.5       1.5
259       1971    Tea                                               15.0       2.6
260       1971    Second Highway                                    34.0       0.7
288       1972    Second Education                                   6.3       0.9
289       1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                  12.5       0.7
300       1972    Population                                        13.2       6.5
310       1972    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)               10.0       0.7
318       1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                  8.5       2.3
319       1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                       11.0       4.2
334       1973    Second Electricity Distribution                   40.0       3.4
355       1973    Beef Cattle Development                            3.6       1.5
358       1973    North Sumatera Smallholder                         5.0       1.3
Development
387       1973    Third Education                                   13.5       8.1
388       1973    Third Highway                                     14.0       2.6
399       1973    West Java Thermal Power                           46.0      12.4
400       1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                 7.8       7.0
405       1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                     50.0       7.7
428       1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                     16.5      10.8
436       1974    Private Development Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI)                                        10.0       6.2
451       1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                        5.0       4.2
479       1974    Bali Tourism                                      16.0      14.5
480       1974    Fisheries Credit                                   6.5       3.3
514       1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.0      28.7



ANNEX II
Page 2
Loan/                                                             (US$ Million)
Credit    Fiscal                                         Amounts (less cancellations)
Number     Year                 Purpose                     Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1005      1974    Railway                                  48.0              25.9
1040      1975    Jakarta Urban Development                25.0               8.0
1049      1975    Five Cities Water Supply                 14.5              12.2
1054      1975    Development Finance Co. (BAPIND0 II)     50.0              21.0
1089      1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion              115.0             10.6
1100      1975    Sixth Irrigation                          65.0             60.0
1127      1975    Fourth Power                              41.0             31.6
1139      1976    Fertilizer Distribution                   68.0             19.2
1179      1976    Agricultural Research and Extension       21.5             21.5
1197      1976    National Resource Survey and Mapping      13.0             12.9
1236      1976    Fourth Highway                          130.0             127.5
1237      1976    Fourth Education                          37.0             36.1
1250      1976    Second Shipping                           54.0             54.0
1254      1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                70.0             38.7
1259      1976    Fifth Power                               90.0             90.0
1267      1976    National Food Crops Extension             22.0             22.0
1268      1976     Seventh Irrigation                       33.0             31.4
1318      1977    Transmigration & Rural Development        30.0             30.0
1336      1977    Second Urban Development                  52.5             50.0
1337      1977    Tanjung Priok Port                        32.0             32.0
1363      1977     Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)            15.0              15.0
1365 /a   1977     Sixth Power                             116.0            116.0
1373      1977    Nutrition Development                     13.0             13.0
Total                                 1,155.5   561.3   1,012.0
of which has been repaid                0.9     0.0
Total now outstanding                 1,154.6   561.3
Amount sold                   0.8
of which has been repaid    0.0         0.8     0.0
Total now held by
Bank & IDA /b                       1,153.8   561.3
Total undisbursed                       878.6   133.4  1,012.0
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                                          US$ Million
Year                                                    Loan    Equity   Total
1971       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement         10.6      2.5     13.1
1971       P. T. Unitex                   Textiles        2.5      0.8      3.3
1971       P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles        2.0     0.5       2.5
1971       P. T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable            2.8     0.4      3.2
1972       P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles        4.5      1.5      6.0
1973       P. T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism         11.0      -      11.0
1973       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement          5.4      0.7      6.1
1974       P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles        2.0     0.3       2.3
1974       P. T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics      0.9      -       0.9
1974       P. T. PDFCI                    Devl. Fin. Co.    -      0.5      0.5
1974       P. T. Kamaltex                 Textile          2.4     0.6      3.0
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement          5.0      1.5      6.5
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong           Cement           -       1.1      1.1
1977       P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles        0.2      -        0.2
Total                                         49.3     10.4     59.7
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled           22.4      1.7     24.1
Total held by IFC                             26.9      8.7     35.6
Undisbursed (including participants
portion)                                   1.7      -        1.7



ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Cr. No. 155 Agricultural Estates: US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
The credit is fully committed.
Cr. No. 194 Second Agricultural Estates: US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project progress is good in the oil palm group which has surpassed
the appraisal report target for new planting by 100%. Progress in the rubber
group has been unsatisfactory with only 50% of the appraisal report target
for new planting achieved. Planting costs are excessive and investment
planning weak. The project has suffered from management deficiencies and
shortage of funds for investment. The Minister of Agriculture has recently
made the necessary changes in management of the rubber group and the Govern-
ment is expected to review its financial policies, particularly with regard
to dividends.
Cr. No. 195 Second Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
ClosLng Date: November 30, 1977.
Progress has been delayed first by initial difficulties in equipment
procurement and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs.
Project completion will therefore be about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The
rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and hydraulically
adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving with
the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher than
previous levels. The credit is about 96% disbursed and the remaining funds
will finance all outstanding civil works. The estimated project cost has
more than doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in
contract quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satis-
factory because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected
during appraisal.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 220 Third Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31. 1977.
Overall project completion is expected by October 1977, about two
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties
in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy
rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently high inflation rates
and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been mainly overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds sub-
stantially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about
twice the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher
than those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Cr. No. 246 Seeds: US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Construction of the irrigation infrastructure and the seeds proces-
sing plant has been completed satisfactorily. Land development at Sukamandi
will be limited to about 1,600 ha (65% of appraisal estimates) by the Closing
Date to enable the project authorities to consolidate production and other
operations. Significant results for 1976/77 are expected to be: (a) area
under production - 1,800 ha (58% of the appraisal estimate), (b) yields of
rice seed - 3.5 tons per ha (87%), and (c) production of certified seed -
4,900 tons (42%). Due mainly to the delay in the development of irrigation
infrastructure, and partly to overly optimistic assumptions during appraisal,
the targets for per ha yield and certified seed production will not be
achieved by September 1977. Due to cost escalation and implementation
difficulties, only one seed multiplication district, out of the three planned
at appraisal, has been developed. Based on present levels of production the
National Seeds Corporation (NSC) is not commercially viable and will need
continued financial support from the Government. The future of the project
and of NSC depend on Government policy for the further development of the
seed industry.
Cr. No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal expec-
tations necessitating construction and rehabilitation of three additional
factories. Project completion, estimated for December 1977, can probably be
advanced. Rising costs are creating pressure on available funds and the main
challenge for the two PTPs will be to reduce working capital requirements,
as well as overhead and indirect costs, and improve labor productivity.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date:   August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been relatively
small despite sharp price increases due to efforts to reduce construction
quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services. Construction work
is completed; however, postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1978
has been agreed to permit payments for the completion of detailed engineering
of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to reconsider
road design standards in relation to those recently developed for the highway
betterment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations regarding
standards for urban portions of the road.
Cr. No. 288 Second Education: US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 30, 1978.
The project is about 12 months behind schedule because of late
appointment of consultant architects and lack of funds to meet cost overruns.
The main causes of delay have been overcome and significant progress is being
made. All civil works are expected to be completed by September 1977. Furni-
ture and equipment are being delivered. The expert services are virtually
completed. Progress of the fellowship program and teacher training is satis-
factory. The Government has made budgetary provisions to meet the cost
overruns. Disbursements have improved. Delayed implementation required
postponement of the Closing Date by 15 months to March 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date:   May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. The bulk of the remaining work will
be accomplished largely with Government funds. Completion of the project is
expected by September 1978. The Government has therefore, requested that the
Closing Date be postponed to December 31, 1978. Feasibility studies
included in the project have been completed and groundwater investigations
are nearing completion.
Cr. No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The national family planning program, of which the project is an
integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors recruited
annually and now covers about 15% of all married women in the reproductive
age group. Implementation of the civil works component is now on schedule;
because of the shift in strategy from static to mobile services, and because
of a large scale Government-financed program to construct and rehabilitate



ANNEX II
Page 7
Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning centers, the Government has
requested a reduction in the number of centers to be constructed under the
project, to which IDA and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(as partners in jointly financing the project) have agreed.
Cr. No. 310 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I): US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: August 31, 1977.
Prior to the original Closing Date which was December 31, 1976,
about $700,000 remained undisbursed and the Closing Date has been postponed to
August 31, 1977 to allow time for BAPINDO to submit documents for reimbursement.
Cr. No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to September 30, 1978 in order to provide for several new projects of
ship rehabilitation. It is expected that the Credit will be fully disbursed
by the new Closing Date but that, due to sharply increased costs, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been rehabili-
tated.
Cr. No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Physical progress of the project which is being executed by PNP X,
a Government-owned estate group, continues to be satisfactory, with plantings
of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
Coffee is a promising crop, and cloves planted in 1974 are growing well. A
hybrid coconut seed garden has been established, the first in Indonesia. PNP X
management needs to pay more attention to cost control and financial planning.
Substantial cost increases have taken place largely due to an expansion in the
size of the program compared with appraisal estimates. The Government has
agreed to provide part of the shortfall in project funding and discussions
with the Government are proceeding on a proposed increase in the budgetary
allocation. PNP X is participating in the execution of smallholder develop-
ment under the Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND)
and the proposed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project.
Cr. No. 334 Second Electricity Distribution: US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND and
334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays due to procure-
ment problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result the project is



ANNEX II
Page 8
two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties have been resolved
and recent progress is encouraging and no further delays are expected. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission undertook
a thorough project review and its recommendations, which include major changes
in project scope and objectives, are being prepared for consideration by the
Executive Directors.
Cr. No. 358 North Sumatera Smallholder Development: US$5 million Credit of
February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13. 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's goals of oil palm and rubber plantings by smallholder
participants should be completed by the end of 1977 at the present rate of
progress, which is now ahead of schedule. Costs of the project have increased
from $10 million estimated at appraisal to about $26 million by completion
date. However, higher than anticipated output of and prices for rubber and
palm oil and changes in project development techniques have more than compen-
sated the cost increases, and the project's return to the economy is likely
to be higher than anticipated at appraisal. No effective mechanism for the
credit-assisted portion of the project has yet been developed.
Cr. No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
sclhool teachers. Distribution of the first 31 million textbooks has been
completed and they are beginning to be used in schools this year. Production
of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1976 is well under way. Book delivery
has been improved and teaching equipment has been procured and delivered.
Teacher training continues to proceed on schedule. Project management has
been strengthened by addition of Indonesian staff to a reorganized project
unit, and by recruitment of specialists under a technical assistance contract
signed with UNESCO.
Cr. No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections included
AntSl<fpo^9x sm7"e,l;a6             ,IQX       rSe*RGEdwe+;E@



ANNEX II
Page 9
and extra amounts of unforeseen work. The project is 50% complete and the
Closing Date will probably have to be postponed by one year. Project costs
are likely to exceed original estimates by 80% mainly due to sharply escalated
prices. As a consequence, the disbursement rate for construction is now in
the process of being lowered. The training program has been successfully
completed. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the road bet-
terment program are nearing satisfactory completion.
Cr. No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang were
about 65% higher than estimated at the time of appraisal. This, together
with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase in the total
project cost of more than 100%. Government will provide the additional funds
required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets in its financial
recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Cr. No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: US$7.8 million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Fewer than anticipated credit applications have necessitated scaling
down project targets from 10,000 ha to about 6,000 ha for smallholder tea and
from 3,500 ha to 2,300 ha for estates tea. The demand by farmers for technical
assistance has been encouraging.   Over 3,000 farmers have been instructed in
tea cultivation at village level courses and at the Project Management Unit
(PMU) training center.  The project spin-off has been excellent; about 2,000 ha
of tea were replanted or rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program
but still under the influence of the PMU.   A marketing study indicates that
tea consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically. Tea prices at farm level are
well above appraisal estimates which is part of the reason why farmers have
been reluctant to apply for long-term credit.
Cr. No. 405 Sugar Industry Rehabilitation: US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The scope of the project has been reduced by the deletion of six
minor rehabilitations from the project description due to cost overruns.
The revised project consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories
and the construction of a new factory together with associated agricultural
development, sugar research and technical assistance components. Due to
late project start-up and delays in arranging consultancy services, project
completion will be delayed by one year. Factory construction and rehabili-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is developing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha earmarked for
the project, about 270 ha had been acquired by September 1976, and 128 ha had
been developed for occupation. Seventy-four factories are located on the
estate of which 37 are operating and 37 are in various stages of construction
or commission. Factory employment is 16,275 and an estimated 1,400 are
employed on average in both factory construction and land development.
Overall, operations are profitable.
Cr. No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
almost fully committed.
Cr. No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31. 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial difficulties.
The evaluations of project tenders have been approved by IDA. Infrastructure
construction started in July 1976 and completion is scheduled for October
1979. Budgetary allocations as requested by the Bali Tourism Development
Corporation for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Preliminary discussions with three
potential hotel investors are underway. Promotional efforts to attract addi-
tional investors and tourists have been intensified, and additional flights
from Sydney and Hong Kong to Bali have been approved by the Minister of
Communications and Tourism.
Cr. No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project as a whole has generally been
progressing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



ANNEX II
Page 11
nearing completion. Boat construction is underway and the contract for equip-
ment has been awarded. The quality of lending for fishpond development needs
to be improved although lending for this component in terms of the number of
subborrowers and area covered had met targets envisaged during appraisal.
Bidding for ice plant construction should start soon. The justification for
the trawler subproject is being reviewed by the Government.
Cr. No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract caused a delay of about 18 months in the project
schedule. The first construction contract was awarded in February 1977, the
next four are scheduled for November 1977, and the last two for May 1978.
From a revision of bid prices for the first contract, the total cost of civil
works is now estimated to be about 40% higher than at the time of the last
review of project progress. The total project cost has increased about 130%
since appraisal in May 1974.
Loan No. 1005 Railway: US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16. 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been slow due to
poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now improved. The
bulk of the contracts have been signed. Passenger traffic in 1975 was
slightly lower than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic
has continued to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive
power. Efforts are being made to strengthen the effectiveness of the technical
assistance program and to more closely monitor project developments. Although
tariffs were raised in May 1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25%
and freight revenues by about 10%, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate
further, as operating costs have continued to rise at an even faster rate.
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 15 months behind
schedule. This is primarily due to land acquisition problems encountered in
the early stages of the project. Project costs are expected to be about 7%
above the appraisal estimate. The allocation of plots and core houses is
expected to begin in July. Some problems have arisen with regard to the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots, and these are being
reviewed currently by the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Millic'a Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs 25-30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed and the project has reached its construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering and the
establishment and development of local water enterprises are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the second quarter of
1977. Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed between the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The Project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December 1976,
one month ahead of schedule. As there was a slight delay in the completion
of the related gas project, the gas requirement of PUSRI III for start-up
during November 15, 1976 - January 7, 1977 was met by advancing the scheduled
shutdown of PUSRI II for annual maintenance by two months.    Meanwhile, the
PUSRI III gas system has been completed. Total cost of PUSRI III is expected
to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100  Sixth Irrigation:   US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the first
year of operation. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject
systems are beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance will
be provided in Irrigation VIII to expedite this work. Critical review of the
program for benefit monitoring is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
G
The project pr9ovides for the expansion of the Muara Karang thermal
power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW generating unit. The
general construction contracts covering this unit as well as the first two
financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded. The project is on schedule
and expected to be completed in early 1980.
Loan No. 1139 Fertilizer Distribution: US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$30 million were realized in the original project. Procurement of an
additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of fertilizer
output beyond that anticipated at appraisal was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is underway and is likely
to be completed successfully by the revised Closing Date, postponed by one
year.
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation is one year behind schedule due to problems
in the appointment of executive architects for detailed design and supervision
of construction of the research centers and of the consultant firm which will
provide research and extension specialists. However, the pace of implementa-
tion lhas recently improved; the contract for research and extension services
was signed in February 1977 and negotiations with the architects are in
progress.
Loan No. 1197 National Resource Survey and Mapping Project: US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project agency, BAKOSURTANAL, has made considerable progress
since the Loan was signed. Several senior staff required for administration
and project procurement have been appointed and preliminary designs for
project facilities have been completed. Preparation of equipment specifica-
tions and planning of aerial photography operations to support detailed
resource surveys of the southern Sumatera region are also proceeding.



ANNEX II
Page 14
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31.
1980.
Contracts have been signed or awarded for the construction of the
first package of roads totalling 585 km and for nine consultancy assignments.
Progress is about six to nine months behind the initial project implementa-
tion schedule, mainly due to the unforeseen bunching of many activities
(negotiations for the consultancy assignments, prequalification of contrac-
tors, tendering, etc.) and a general shortage of staff to deal with the
rapidly increasing work load.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education Project:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15.
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Project implementation units have been established and the team
leaders for technical assistance are in place. Contracts with the consultant
architects have been signed. Site selection and acquisition are generally
satisfactory with some exceptions due to difficult site conditions and higher
site costs. The project is about 10 months behind schedule due to initial
delay in the appointment of consultant architects and signing of agreements
with UN agencies for technical assistance. The problems causing delays are
being followed up with the Government agencies concerned.
Loan No. 1250 Second Shipping Project: US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The appointment of a number of consultants has been delayed which
could cause a lag in the implementation of the project. The financial
position of the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, which may
result in financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is aware of this potential problem and is considering steps to deal with it.
The project is being closely followed.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, is about four months ahead of schedule,
but the related gas project is experiencing some delay. Efforts are being
made by the Government to accelerate the gas project. According to present
indications, PUSRI IV is likely to be commissioned in mid-October 1977. No
cost overrun is foreseen for this project.



ANNEX II
Page 15
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is underway.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1268 Seventh Irrigation Project: US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the prequalification for
contractors and consultants and the project is ahead of schedule in the North
Sadang area, in the mapping program and in preparation of the construction
schedule for tertiary development.
Loan No. 1318 Transmigration and Rural Development Project: US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The first village has been constructed, and the first settlers moved
from Java in October 1976.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Progress is being made in developing Govern-
ment capabilities in undertaking a nation-wide kampung improvement program in
the future.
Loan No. 1337 Tanjung Priok Port Project: US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Final design by consultants is proceeding and the contract for
supply of container cranes has been let.



ANNEX II
Page 16
Loan No. 1363 Second PDFCI Project: US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 21, 1977.
Loan No. 1365  Sixth Power Prolect:   US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977,
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan is expected to become effective by June 1977.
Loan No. 1373  Nutrition Development Project:   US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31. 1982.
This loan became effective on March 31, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: two years
(b) Project preparation coordinated by: NFPCB
(c) First presented to the Bank: September 1975
(d) First mission to consider project: October 1975
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1976
(f) Follow-up appraisal: February 1977
(g) Completion of negotiations: May 12, 1977
(h) Planned loan effectiveness: October 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank supervision mission is scheduled for July 1977, to assist in
the initial stages of implementation of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to ensure monitoring of the operation and maintenance
of vehicles provided under the project (para. 49).
(b) Government proposals for the location of the PTCs and
provincial offices to be submitted to the Bank for
approval (para. 51).
(c) Within four months of the end of each fiscal year (i.e. by July 31),
Government to submit for review by the Bank a detailed report on
the progress of the community incentive study and consult with
the Bank on the scope and form of the scheme (para. 53).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Within 20 months of the commencement, and three months after
the completion of the oral contraceptive raw material study,
Government to submit to the Bank for review a detailed report
on the progress of the study and the oral contraceptive needs
and sources of supply for the program, and consult with the Bank
on the technical and economic desirability of continuing the
study (para. 53).
(e) By October 31, 1977, all sites required for the facilities to be
constructed under the project will have been acquired, and an
adequate number of full-time qualified and experienced officers
appointed to assist the NFPCB in implementing the construction
program (para. 54).
(f) Audited project accounts to be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the end of each Government fiscal year
(para. 59).



*-!3k.,  THAILAND     0                         , 0                                120
.oida Aceh PAHcIL I PP INES"
2 111,                              S South    China     Se o       BRUNEI
12  *Medon     MA[oA
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4CA  - I                                                                                       Memcdo_A
~ i'OCJOR    >!4.~WSINGAPORE
a~~~~~~~~~~J -- ,                                          I \' \1 .  . .  -  > 1 z 
0*~~~~~~~~         ~6          OTonjung Pinong
0**.'4'PontiOn
9 WEST KALIMANNA        NKA - '                                                                    KEPUAUA   SIA  22
Prn ong k [lpinang Rdn17
PROVINCES                                                                                       .      -  /
EAST JAVA            .d /                                                         IKendari
2CENTRAL JAVA                   / n
3WEST JAVA RA
5* SPECIAL CAPITAL               '
TERRITORY JAKARTA                                                                       Ujn    adn
2SORTH SUMATRA
7  RIAU                                           J A  V A
WEST SUMATRA
90.SOUTH SUMATRA                                    ronenrn(.'_MDR
11LAMPUNG                                                             AOR
12 SPECIAL TERRITORY ACEH
13 .ENKULU
14 WEST KALIMANITAN
16 EAST KALIMANTAN                                                             RAU      .5FJM8A               S
16 SOUTH KALIMANTAN                                                                          4jma         FlORE
17CENITRAL KALIMANTAN
18SOUTH SULAWESI                                     ~                                                               tmu
19CENTRAL SULAWESI                nDenpasCorO           
-10'  21 NORTH SULAWESI                                                                                                         OR(  i
22 MA LU KU
R3 ALI                                                                                           U
24WEST NUSATENGGARA 
EAST NUSATENGGARA                                                                                               V4
IRIAN JAYA
00         IOS*                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~110  I                    1201                  125'



