Report No. 1534b-IND                                                                E    curt
Indonesia
Appraisal of a Second Population Project
May 31, 1977
Population Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1             =      Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 1             =      US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000     =      US$2,410
Government of Indonesia Fiscal Year: April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ABRI      =  Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia
ANM       =  Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
BAPPENAS  =  National Development and Planning Agency
GOI       =  Government of Indonesia
IPPA      =  Indonesia Planned Parenthood Association
IPPF      =  International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD       =  Intra Uterine Device
KAP       =  Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
LEKNAS    =  Indonesian Institute of Sciences
MCH/FP    =  Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOH       =  Ministry of Health
NFPCB     =  National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PKK       =  Community Health Nurse
PTC       =  Provincial Training Centre
STC       =  Sub-provincial Training Centre
TFR       =  Total Fertility Rate
UNESCO    =  United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA     =  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    =  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID     =  United States Agency for International Development
VCDC      =  Village Contraceptive Distribution Centre
WHO       =  World Health Organization
GLOSSARY
BUPATI    =  Chief Executive of the Kabupaten or Regency
CAMAT     =  Executive Head of the Kecamatan or Sub-district
DUKUN     =  Indigeneous Midwife
INPRES    =  Presidential Instruction
KABUPATEN =  Administrative Sub-division of a Province
KECAMATAN =  Administrative Sub-district
LURAH     =  Village Headman
PENMAS    =  Community Education Program
PUSKESMAS =  Kecamatan Health Centre



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA II: BASIC DATA
Total Area ......................................................  1,904,345 km
Total Population - latest Census (1971) ............        .. ...........         119.2 million
- latest Estimate (December 1976) ....          ..........     134.8 million
Density per km  (1971) - Indonesia ...............       ..     .............       63
- Java and Madura ....         ....................     565
Rate of Natural Increase (1976) .................................                  2.2%
Birth Rate (1976)           ...............................................         40
Death Rate (1976)         .........................   ......................        18
Life Expectancy at Birth (1973) ................       ..     ...............       47.5 years
Urban Population as Percent of Total Population (1971) ..........                   17
Adult Literacy Rate in Percent (1971) - Males ..........        .........           72
- Females ....       .............      50
- Total Adult Population ..             61
Primary School Enrollment in Percent (1971) - Males ....            .........       62
- Females ...........            58
- Total Population
(aged 7-12) .....           60
Age Structure in Percent (1976) -  0 - 14 years .44
- 15 - 64 years .54
- 65 and over.                                  2
Women aged 15-44 (1976) ......         ...................................          29   million
Population per Physician (1972)             .................................    21,000
Population per Nurse (1972) .....................................               6,000
Population per Auxiliary Nursing Personnel (midwife) (1972) .....              25,000
Population per Hospital Bed (1972) ..............................               1,500
New Acceptors Recruited by the National Family Planning Program -                    9.0 million
Cumulative through March 1977
Current Family Planning Users (March 1977)          - Java and Bali ...              3.5 million
- 10 Provinces in
Other Islands                .3 million
Current Family Planning Users as Percentage of Married Women aged 15-44
(March 1977)                                        - Java and Bali....            24.1%
- 10 Provinces in
Other Islands              6.2%
GNP at Market Prices (1973) .        ............................    US$15.9  billion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients o* ia the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Iank authorization.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                   i - iii
I.  INTRODUCTION. . .                                                        1
II.    RECENT DEMOGRAPHIC TRENDS .                    .                      1
III.       FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM AND SERVICES           . . .              3
IV.        JOINT IDA/UNFPA-ASSISTED PROJECT.. .                              7
V.         NFPCB's MEDIUM-TERM PLANS .....         ........................   10
VI.        THE PROJECT          ...........................................   12
A.   Objectives and Components .........................   12
B.   Mobile Family Planning Services ....          ..............   13
C.   Family Planning Training .........................   14
D.   Family Planning and Population Centres ....         .......   17
E.   Population Education .............................   17
F.   Research .........................................   18
VII.       PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION ..................................   22
A.   Cost .........           ........................    22
B.   Proposed Financing ...............................    24
C.   Disbursement and Accounts .......... ..............   24
D.   Procurement ..................................   26
E.   Implementation .................................    27
VIII.      PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .................................   27
IX.        RECOMMENDATIONS . .................................   29
This report is based on the findings of a mission in October
1976 to Indonesia, composed of Messrs. H. M. Jones, D. B. Mills, A. Shaw,
C. Chandrasekaran, and Dr. K. V. Ranganathan of the Bank, and Dr. F. Bayan,
consultant to the Bank. The report was prepared by Mr. Jones from the
contributions of mission members.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annexes
*1.       Demographic Background
*2.       The National Family Planning Program
*3.       The Joint IDA/UNFPA-Assisted Project
*4.       NFPCB Medium-Term Plans
5.       Mobile Family Planning Services
6.       Family Planning Training
7.       Family Planning and Population Centres
8.       Population Education
9.       Community Incentive Scheme
10.       Oral Contraceptive Raw Materials
Feasibility Study
11.       Project Cost Estimates
12.       Estimated Disbursement Schedule
*13.      Schedule of Civil Works
Map
IBRD 12696: Indonesia: Administration and Population
*    Available on request from the Population Projects Department.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Implementation of a population project, jointly financed by the
International Development Association (IDA) (Credit 300-IND) and the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), was started in November 1972,
in support of the Government of Indonesia's (GOI) national family planning
program. It provided for a wide variety of support including the construction
of service and training facilities, transport, special equipment, research and
evaluation studies, population education and family planning communication
activities. As of April 30, 1977, 50% of the IDA Credit and UNFPA Grant had
been disbursed.
ii.       As a result of rapidly declining mortality and insubstantial falls
in fertility before 1970, the annual population growth rate in Indonesia
was about 2.2% in 1976. This means that, even with the most optimistic
assumptions with respect to fertility and mortality, the current population
of Indonesia, (about 135 million) will rise to about 209 million by the
year 2000. Of factors which are believed to have a bearing on fertility
decline--socio-economic development, a significant status for women, low
infant and child mortality, and high literacy, especially for women--only
in the last area can Indonesia be said to have made significant progress
to date. Under these circumstances, the improvement of which is likely to be
long-term, the continued development of an effective national family planning
program, providing motivation and service facilities, will be a critical
factor in the reduction of fertility in the medium-term.
iii.      To meet the problems posed by such a population growth rate, the
GOI established a national family planning program in 1970 which at first
covered only Java and Bali but was expanded in 1974 to 10 selected provinces
in the other islands. The program has had remarkable success, not only in
the number of new acceptors which have been recruited (nearly 9.0 million
by the end of March 1977), but in establishing an organization closely
linked with administrative and community leadership and capable of extend-
ing its motivation and service activities to peripheral rural communities.
It is not possible to state with precision how large a decline in fertility
the national program has achieved. There is some evidence, however, from
area specific surveys and statistical analyses that fertility in East Java and
Bali, where program impact has been greatest, declined by 16% and 15% respec-
tively between 1967-71 and 1972-76.
iv.       During the course of implementation, the national family planning
program has come to depend less on its static service outlets operated by
the two main implementing units--the Ministry of Health and the Armed Forces
Health Services.   The National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB),
which is responsible for coordinating all aspects of the program, has de-
veloped a system of village contraceptive distribution centres. These
centres, operated by village volunteers, are important in resupplying accep-
tors with oral contraceptives and condoms and creating important information
and motivation links between the program and the community. During 1976,



- ii -
the NFPCB prepared medium-term plans for the strengthening and expansion of
the national program through the end of the national third five-year plan
in 1983-84. The objective of the plans is to bring fertility down to a level
at which the crude birth rate would be 34 per 1,000 at the end of that period.
This will mean, in operational terms, recruiting about 20.3 million new
acceptors during that period. The target is high but, in view of the GOI's
serious commitment and past program performance, it is not unrealistic.
v.        To achieve its targets, the NFPCB plans to transfer to the community
and to the individual, the sense of urgent commitment to family planning which
now exists at the higher levels of Government. This will be accomplished
by improving the range and efficiency of motivational and contraceptive
delivery services, improving program management, supervision and professional
skills through better quality training and ensuring the greater involvement of
provincial and community leaders. In support of these activities the GOI
will develop a local capability for contraceptive production.
vi.       The proposed project is derived from NFPCB proposals, directly re-
lated to the needs of its medium-term plans, and a GOI request for assistance.
The project is designed to assist the NFPCB in the attainment of a crude
birth rate of 34 per 1,000 by 1984. Its specific objectives are to enhance
the mobility of family planning staff, widen and strengthen the program's
education and motivation activities by assisting the NFPCB to reorganize and
direct family planning training on a national basis, and support NFPCB admin-
istration by improving facilities and assisting plans for a national oral
contraceptive production capability.
vii.      To meet these objectives, the proposed project will provide:
(a) 274 four-wheel drive vehicles, 1,661 motorcycles and 8 small boats, all
equipped to deliver maternal and child health and family planning services
to population groups which do not have easy access to existing static ser-
vices, (b) construction of facilities for the NFPCB's Bureau of Education
and Training, and 10 provincial training centres (PTCs) in the 10 provinces
of the other islands, with support for the development of a national family
planning training program, including technical assistance and fellowships for
staff development, (c) construction of 10 NFPCB offices in the 10 provinces
of the other islands which, together with the PTCs, will form provincial
family planning and population centres, (d) educational materials, seminars,
fellowships and technical assistance for the completion of the integration
of population education into school curricula and community education pro-
grams, (e) incentives, monitoring and evaluation studies and technical
assistance for a pilot community incentive scheme designed to test whether
the promotion and acceptance of the small family norm by the people them-
selves and their communities can be fostered by the application of rewards
for predefined achievements in family planning, and (f) equipment, fellow-
ships and technical assistance for a study of the feasibility of providing
raw materials for local oral contraceptive production from botanical materials
available in Indonesia.
viii.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$60.0 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$10.6 million, or about
17.7% of the total cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$24.5 million would



- iii -
finance the foreign exchange component (US$10.6 million) and 28.1% of local
costs (US$13.9 million). The remaining US$35.5 million would be financed
by the Government from annual appropriations. The GOI contribution wculd
finance site development costs and incremental operating costs.
ix.       The NFPCB, through its organization and that of its implementing
units, would be responsible for the implementation of the project. To
assist in the production of designs for facilities provided under the pro-
ject, and for supervision of the facilities during construction, local
architectural consultants would be retained by the NFPCB. Internationally
recruited advisors will assist in the further development of the population
education component, family planning training, the pilot community incentive
scheme and oral contraceptive raw material feasibility study. In addition,
the project provides for 21.9 man-years of fellowship programs to strengthen
Indonesian professional capabilities and skills in population education,
family planning training and oral contraceptive technology.
x.        Contracts for civil works and furniture and special equipment will
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding according to procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. The civil works packages will be too
small (less than US$670,000) and the sites too scattered to attract interna-
tional attention. The special equipment required for the project is diverse
and specialized and incapable of being packaged in quantities large enough
to attract international attention. Vehicles will be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
xi.       It is estimated that the national family planning program will
contribute directly to about 90% of the fertility decline to which the NFPCB
is directing its efforts through the end of the third five-year plan in
1983-84. The project will substantially contribute to improved and extended
motivation and service activities by helping in the reorganization of family
planning training on a national scale. If the anticipated fertility reduc-
tion is achieved by 1983-84, the population of Indonesia would be some 2.5
million fewer than if the program made only half its potential impact.
xii.      Subject to the fulfillment of the assurances listed in paragraph
9.01 of the report, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$24.5 million equivalent to the Government of Indonesia for a term of
20 years, including a grace period of four and one-half years.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In accordance with terms of reference dated September 29, 1976,
a mission visited Indonesia from October 18-30, 1976, to appraise a second
population project for Indonesia. A post-appraisal mission visited Indonesia
from February 6-11, 1977, to finalize certain proposals. This report presents
the findings of those missions which used proposals prepared by the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) as the basis for its request for assistance.
1.02      The proposed project follows on the implementation of a first pro-
ject, financed jointly by the GOI, IDA and the United Nations Fund for Popu-
lation Activities (UNFPA), the legal agreements pertaining to which were
signed on April 20, 1972. The proposed project's overall objective is to con-
tinue to assist the national family planning program in achieving its long-
term goal which is to reduce fertility over the period of 1976-2000 by 50%. 1/
To meet this goal, the GOI has developed a program strategy through the end of
the third national five-year plan in 1983-84. The program's objective in this
period is to reduce the birth rate to 34 per 1,000 population from the 1970
rate of about 44 per 1,000. The components of this project form an integral
part of the national program.
II. RECENT DEMOGRAPHIC TRENDS
2.01      Indonesia is a sarawling archipelago of over 13,000 islands with a
total area of 1,904,345 km . Only some 1,000 of these islands are inhabited.
According to the most recent census taken in September 1971, the population of
Indonesia was 119.2 million, the fifth most populous copntry in the world. At
that date, the population density was 63 persons per km , rather lower than
that of India (172) or Asia as a whole (78). The population is, however, very
unevenly distributed (see Map IBRD 12696) with Java accounting for 64% of the
population but less than 7% of the land area. In contrast, Kalimantan com-
prises 27% of the land area but has only 4% of the population. The uneven    2
distribution results in a wide range of density from about 565 persons per km
in Java (almost twice that of the Netherlaeds (326) or Belgium (318) and
greater than Bangladesh (510)) to 2 per km in West Irian.
1/   In 1970 the national family planning program was started in six prov-
inces--Jakarta, West, Central and East Java, Yogyakarta, and Bali. In
1974, it was extended to 10 selected provinces in the other islands
comprising Aceh, North, West and South Sumatra, Lampung, West and South
Kalimantan, North and South Sulawesi and West Nusatenggara. It will
be extended to the remaining provinces of the Republic in 1979.



2.02      Population growth in Indonesia is determined primarily by the
difference between births and deaths within the country, as international
migration plays little part. Between 1961 and 1971, the annual growth
rate was 2.1% compared with 1.5% annually during the period 1931-61. In
1976 it was estimated to be about 2.2% per annum.
2.03      The rising growth rate is due to a substantial decline in mortality
without a substantial change in fertility prior to 1970. With no national
system for the recording of vital events, it is not possible to be precise
on levels and trends in birth and death rates. Such information that is
available is derived from analyses of census data (primarily the 1961 and
1971 censuses) and inter-censal surveys.
2.04      Indonesia's population is marked by a high percentage in the
younger age groups, another important factor contributing to the rising
growth rate. In 1971, 44% of the population was aged 14 years and below.
Overall, there was a slight preponderance of females; the sex ratio (males
per 1,000 females) being 972. In Indonesia as a whole, 17% of the popula-
tion lives in urban areas. The low urbanization rate in Java (18%), coupled
with high population densities, results in heavy population pressure on
agricultural land resources.
2.05      Analysis of the 1971 Census results and subsequent sample surveys
indicates that there has been a substantial (about 50%) and continuous de-
cline in childhood mortality since 1945-49. In rural East Java, for example,
it has been estimated that of 1,000 live births in 1945-49, 261 children died
before attaining five years of age compared with 117 in 1965-67. The over-
all crude death rate was estimated to be about 18 per 1,000 persons in 1976.
2.06      The pattern of fertility in Indonesia, as a whole, can be summarized
as an "'early marriage, high fertility" pattern. One significant feature is
that it is not uncommon for a woman's childbearing period to be spread over a
span of 20 years or longer (compared with 10 years or shorter in West Euro-
pean countries). During the 1960s, a fall in fertility in the age period
15-19 years was evident as a result of a trend towards later marriage. Esti-
mates indicate that the total fertility rate (TFR) has also declined. In
Java and Bali, for example, the TFR was estimated to be 5.8 in the period
1965-70 and 5.1 in 1975. The crude birth rate is estimated to have declined
over the same period from 44.0 per 1,000 persons to 38.3. Actual fertility
reduction can be partly ascribed to the results of the family planning program,
but this is not readily quantifiable. Very preliminary findings from a re-
cently completed inter-censal survey tend to confirm this decline in fertility
but its results will not be available until the end of 1977. For Indonesia as
a whole, the crude birth rate was estimated to be about 40 in 1976.
2.07      The significant fact from current demographic analyses is that
the total population of Indonesia, under the most optimistic assumptions,
will be about 209 million in the year 2000. This would imply a lowering of
the crude birth rate to 24.3, the crude death rate to 10.5 and the annual
population growth rate to 1.4%. With a less rapid decline in fertility,
the population might be as high as 258 million in that year. In developed



- 3 -
countries, the demographic transition towards lower population growth rates
has been marked by increasing levels of urbanization and industrialization,
the spread of literacy (particularly among women and children) and an en-
hanced role for women, particularly in income-generating opportunities.
Indonesia is already well placed with respect to literacy, 61% being classi-
fied as literate in 1971. The status of women (50% of whom are literate)
is steadily improving.
2.08      In these socio-economic circumstances, the significant improvement
of which is likely to be long-term, the contribution of the national family
planning program to a reduction of fertility is critical. The difference of
49 million in the population in the year 2000 between the "low" and "high"
projections indicates the imperative need to strengthen and expand current
family planning efforts, particularly beyond Java and Bali. The national
program was initiated in Java and Bali only in 1970 and precise data on its
effect on fertility are not yet available. Preliminary estimates from sample
surveys made in 1976 as part of the World Fertility Survey confirm that
fertility is declining, particularly in East Java and Bali where the program
has been most active. Between 1967-71 and 1972-76, it is estimated that the
TFR declined by 16% in East Java and 15% in Bali. There have been smaller
declines in the remaining provinces of Java. The current demographic situa-
tion is given in Annex 1.
III.  FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM AN] SERVICES
3.01      A voluntary organization, the Indonesian Planned Parenthood Asso-
ciation (IPPA), initiated family planning work in Indonesia in 1957. At first
restricted by an unfavorable political climate, its work was significantly
enlarged in 1967 when President Suharto signed the Declaration of World
Leaders on Population. A modest service program using Ministry of Health
(MOH) facilities was provided.
3.02      Recognizing the need for positive Government action, the GOI estab-
lished a quasi-governmental family planning institute in October 1968. In
1969, the GOI requested international assistance and a UN-WHO-IBRD mission
visited Indonesia. On the basis of its report, the President directed that
a national family planning program should be instituted and a five-year oper-
ational plan for Java and Bali be prepared with the objective of recruiting
6 million new family planning acceptors by 1976. This plan was subsequently
modified in 1974 to fit the development pattern of the second national five-
year plan. In 1974, the family planning program was extended to 10 provinces
in the other islands.
3.03      In order to carry out the plan, the Family Planning Institute was
dissolved and a National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB) was
established by Presidential Decree in 1970. The President is responsible for
the program and the NFPCB Chairman in practice reports directly to him. On



policy matters, the President is advised by a ministerial council of concerned
ministries with the State Minister for People's Welfare as Chairman and the
NFPCB Chairman as its Secretary. The NFPCB is responsible for the "coordina-
tion, integration and synchronization of efforts in realizing the national
program of family planning carried out by the implementing units". In addi-
tion it generates policy, coordinates all foreign aid for the program, and
provides technical guidance.
3.04      The NFPCB is a full governmental body headed by a Chairman, with
three deputy chairmen, a Secretariat controlling administrative and finan-
cial affairs, and nine bureaus representing various technical functions. In
provinces covered by the national program, the NFPCB has established offices
run by a provincial chairman. Each office has a secretary and three divi-
sions concerned with planning, supervision, and research and evaluation re-
spectively. At the next lowest administrative division, the kabupaten, the
NFPCB has a Chairman and a fieldworkers' supervisor with supporting staff.
Here again there are close links with the administrative head, the Bupati,
and representatives of the implementing units.
3.05      The most important implementing unit is the MOH; its hospital
and clinic facilities provide 80% of family planning services. Services are
also provided through facilities operated by the Armed Forces (ABRI) Health
Services which are open to and serve the civilian population as well. In
addition, health facilities operated by the (Christian) Council of Churches,
the Muslim Muhammadiyah and private doctors also provide family planning
services. With increasing direct GOI support for family planning, the role of
the IPPA has been modified to the present position where it will now concen-
trate its motivational activities on community education.
3.06      Insofar as Provincial Governors are responsible to the President
for the progress of development programs within their province, they are
also responsible for family planning. Provincial NFPCB chairmen are required
to obtain the Governor's directives on operational matters. Much of the
motivational work for family planning is undertaken with the cooperation of
the Indonesian administrative hierarchy from provincial to village level. The
NFPCB has also developed, and directly organized, a cadre of lay fieldworkers
who are responsible for the provision of information on family planning. They
work in close cooperation with the staff of service facilities and administra-
tive officials. Support for information and motivation activities is provided
by staff of the Ministries of Information and Religious Affairs.
3.07      As of March 1977, there were 2,719 outlets providing family plan-
ning services in the six provinces of Java and Bali and 901 outlets in the 10
provinces of other islands, located in hospitals, public health centres and
clinics. Of these, 80.0% were operated by the MOH, 8.5% by the ABRI and the
remainder by other Government departments and private doctors. In order to
expand the program into rural areas and reduce dependence on static service
outlets, the NFPCB also utilizes mobile teams of health and family planning
workers. By November 1976, the NFPCB was providing financial support for



- 5 -
1,637 such teams in the 16 provinces covered by the program. In 1974, the
NFPCB adopted an important change in program strategy. From that date the
program has also made vigorous efforts to make the resupply of oral contra-
ceptives and condoms as convenient for the user as possible. To this end,
village contraceptive distribution centres (VCDCs) have been widely estab-
lished in Java and Bali. In Java, VCDCs are operated by a variety of
individuals including satisfied acceptors, staff of the village headman
(Lurah), or members of village organizations who come under the authority of
the Ministry of Interior. Distribution is done either on an individual or
collective meeting basis and the opportunity taken for follow-up work and
motivational activities to reach non-acceptors. In Bali, the unique hamlet
administrative (banjar) system, a monthly meeting of all family heads, is used
to maintain supplies and promote family planning in addition to its other
functions. To date, there are about 28,000 VCDCs in Java. All the banjars
in Bali (some 3,300) are now involved in family planning, and 31% of all
resupplies of oral contraceptives pass through this system. The comparable
figure is 36% for West Java, 45% for Central Java and 81% in East Java. Since
its inception in 1974, the program in the 10 provinces of the other islands
has relied primarily on static service centres in urban areas and is only now
beginning to expand to rural areas.
3.08      A comprehensive, standardized reporting system was introduced in
1971 to provide program service data and feedback, with substantial support
from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). Data
on monthly activities relating to new acceptors, contraceptive supplies, re-
visits, -chievements in terms of targets and data on contraceptive use are
received from an average of 95% of all static service outlets in Java and
Bali and 84% in the other islands in time to be processed and published by
the 25th of each succeeding month. The completeness, accuracy and speed
with which this is accomplished is unique in major national family planning
programs.
3.09      From its inception in 1969-70 to the end of March 1977, the national
program recruited 8.97 million new acceptors. In each year since 1972-73, the
program has achieved its target. The Java and Bali program has been recruiting
progressively younger and less well-educated women whose husbands are likely
to be farmers or fishermen and who have fewer children than three. In 1975-76,
67%o of the new acceptors were aged 15-29 years and 67% had three children or
less; 93% had less than a primary education. In the other islands where the
program has been established more recently, a 'typical' acceptor is a 29-year
old woman with about four living children whose husband is a Government
official or tradesman.
3.10      In terms of methods selected by new acceptors in Java and Bali,
oral contraception increased in importance from about 28% of all methods
selected in 1969-70 to nearly 68% in 1975-76. The IUD, on the other hand,
declined in relative importance from 55% in 1969-70 to 11% in 1974-75. By the
end of 1976-77, however, there was evidence of the success of the NFPCB's
recently adopted strategy to improve demand for the IUD; at the end of that
program year, acceptors of oral contraceptives had declined slightly to about



67% whilst IUD acceptors increased to over 18%.  Acceptance of the condom has
fluctuated from about 18% of all methods in the first year of the program down
to 5% in 1971-72, up again to 19% in 1975-76 and down once more to about 13%
in 1976-77. Other methods, including injectables and sterilization, are
not significant components of the contraceptive mix.
3.11      Data on continuation rates of the various contraceptive methods
have been obtained from various sample surveys in Java and Bali. They in-
dicate that first method continuation rates for IUD acceptors are consis-
tently higher than comparative rates for other national programs in the re-
gion; oral contraceptive continuation rates are more in line. In East
Java in 1974, for example, 94% of women accepting an IUD as their first
method retained the IUD 12 months after acceptance.  A survey in Bali in
1973 showed that after 18 months 80% of IUD acceptors could be expected to
be continuing users of that method. The equivalent percentages in East
Java for oral contraceptive continuation rates after 12 months was 79% and
for Bali after 18 months was 47%. For comparison, the median first method
continuation rate after 12 months of acceptance (computed from data from 13
national programs or large-scale field trials) was 78% for the IUD and from
nine programs was 58% for the oral contraceptive.
3.12      Besides continuing to recruit larger numbers of new acceptors,
there has also been a continual increase in the estimated numbers of women
using contraceptive methods at any one time. As of March 1977, it was
estimated that 24.1% of married women in the reproductive age group (15-44
years) in Java and Bali were currently practising contraception. There is
a regional variation from 35.5% in Bali and 33.8% in East Java to 14.9%
in the Jakarta Metropolitan Area. The comparable figure for the other islands
is 6.2%. Taking the total population of Indonesia into account, the March 1977
rate would be 17.7%. Comparative figures for other national programs in
the region are 10% for West Malaysia (1975), 21.7% for the Philippines (1976)
and 16.9% for India (1976). All these rates refer to contraceptive users
supported by national programs. The number of contraceptive users who ob-
tain supplies from private sources or practise traditional methods is not
known for Indonesia as a whole. A survey in Bali in 1974 indicated that
89% of contraceptive protection was provided directly by program suppl4es.
3.13      Since its inception, the GOI has provided increasing financial
support for the national program. Estimated expenditures have risen from
US$2.1 million in 1968-69 to US$25.5 million in 1975-76. In that period,
foreign donor support has also risen from US$2.0 million to US$13.0 mil-
lion in absolute terms but has decreased from 96.5% to 51% of total ex-
penditures. Expenditures per new acceptor has dropped from about US$81
in 1968-69 to around US$15 in 1975-76 in Java and Bali. Foreign support
has come primarily from USAID, particularly contraceptive supplies and
support for program monitoring and evaluation, and from the joint IDA/UNFPA-
assisted project. Details of the organization and performance of the na-
tional program are given in Annex 2.



- 7 -
IV. JOINT IDA/UNFPA-ASSISTED PROJECT
4.01      With the objective of providing a wide variety of support to
the new family planning program in Java and Bali, a first population project
was designed for IDA assistance and declared effective in November 1972. It
was funded jointly on an equal basis with the UNFPA. The project had an
estimated total cost of US$33.0 million and was assisted by an IDA Credit of
US$13.2 million and a UNFPA Grant of US$13.2 million. The project was wide
ranging in its efforts to help the program to develop. Its components in-
cluded:
a.   the construction and equipment of 10 paramedical
training schools;
b.   the construction and equipment of about 320 maternal child
health/family planning (MCH/FP) centres in East Java, Bali
and Jakarta;
c.   the construction and equipment of six provincial
training centres (PTCs) and 10 sub-provincial training
centres (STCs);
d.   salary support for some 7,000 non-medical field-
workers;
e.   support for research and evaluation activities cov-
ering technical assistance, fellowships, research
studies, seminars and a demonstration field post-
partum program;
f.   the construction and equipment of one central and
six provincial NFPCB administrative centres;
g.   the provision of transport for staff involved in
MCH/FP services and motivation activities;
h.   support for an extension of the hospital postpartum
program;
i.   the provision of 115 mobile information units, techni-
cal assistance, fellowships and studies for informa-
tion and communication activities;
j.   support for a population education program; and
k.   technical assistance and fellowship support for pro-
gram management and project implementation.
Where appropriate, the project made provision for maintenance and opera-
ting costs as well as local salaries on a declining percentage basis. As
of April 30, 1977, US$13.3 million (50%) had been disbursed from the Credit
and Grant.



-8-
4.02      The joint project was the first attempt at donor coordination in
a Bank-assisted population project. Not only was the UNFPA involved as a
funding partner, but other agencies provided technical assis        iAther
through existing or new agreements with the GOI. These agencies included
UNICEF, UNESCO, WHO and the Population Council, a privately-funded agency
based in New York. With the exception of advisors in training, population
education, information and research, all advisors and consultants have
completed their assignments.
4.03      The construction program got off to a slow start, in part due to
the inexperience of the NFPCB with a program of this size. Failure to brief
the local architects adequately on user requirements was also in part re-
sponsible for early delays. Retention of foreign management consultants was
of little help in overcoming these problems. Increasing familiarity of NFPCB
staff with Indonesian construction requirements and support from project re-
view missions has eventually produced a unit of the NFPCB capable of managing
a construction program of this size and nature. To date, 45 MCH/FP centres,
five PTCs and 10 STCs have been completed, whilst one central office, and 50
MCH/FP centres are under construction and nearly complete. Tenders for the
remaining PTC, six provincial offices and nine paramedical training schools
will be awarded in early July. Delays and inflation have resulted in con-
struction costs increasing from US$9.1 million at appraisal in 1971 to
US$20.1 million at current prices. The GOI has proposed that the nurse-
midwifery school and 223 MCH/FP centres in East Java, Bali and Jakarta be
dropped from the project. The GOI, through a program instituted at the
direction of the President (INPRES), has built or rehabilitated a total of
3,675 public health/family planning centres in the period 1974-77 (45% in
Java and Bali) which has eliminated the need for additional centres to be
constructed from project funds. The nurse-midwife school is no longer needed
following a change in the paramedical staffing pattern subsequent to the start
of the project. And on policy grounds, the national program is moving towards
a service system based to a lesser extent on static service outlets than at
the conception of the project. The Bank and the UNFPA have formally agreed
with these proposals.
4.04      With the assistance of UNICEF, the joint project procured 158 four-
wheel drive vehicles, 213 minibuses, 3,180 motorcycles and 4,570 bicycles.
These are all in use in the field and provide the program with much needed
mobility. For the information program, 115 mobile information units have
been procured and are in use in each kabupaten in Java and Bali. Techni-
cal assistance is being supplied, study tours to observe family planning
programs have been organized, and support has been provided for the produc-
tion of audiovisual materials. The family planning unit of the Ministry
of Information was reorganized in January 1977 and, with the arrival of
a foreign advisor in November 1976 to assist that Ministry, its work should
now be more focused on radio, television, and mass media production than
has been previously possible.
4.05      The project supported the recruitment and training of non-
medical fieldworkers and the necessary supervisory staff. There are
about 5,500 fieldworkers for whom the GOI has now assumed full respon-
sibility for salaries and operating costs. The project aimed at a level
of one fieldworker for 10,000 persons but the current level in Java and



Bali is 1:14,000. The NFPCB will hold this level because the salaries
of fieldworkers have risen almost six times since 1971 and the develop-
ment of the VCDC program has considerably strengthened peripheral-level
work.
4.06      One of the objectives of the first project was to assist the
process of restructuring the 28 classes of paramedical staff which the
MOH employed. As a result of workshops and pilot training funded by
the project, the concept of the community-oriented primary health nurse
(PKK) has been finalized. Construction of the first paramedical school
to train PKKs is expected to start in June 1977.
4.07      The project provided funds to strengthen the evaluation and re-
search capability of the NFPCB and enhance Indonesian institutional research.
Some 10 studies sponsored by the Central NFPCB have been funded to provide
program data and evaluate ongoing activities. Of these, the more important
include a sample vital registration project, a quarterly acceptor survey,
and an evaluation of the special drives to recruit acceptors in East Java.
The Population Council has coordinated the provision of technical assistance
for the NFPCB, the Population Studies Centre of the Institute of Social
and Economic Research, and the Mojokerto Postpartum Demonstration Program.
The objective of the latter program was to demonstrate that fertility could
be moderated by using institutional and traditional MCH services to persuade
pregnant and lactating women to become acceptors. With the change in family
planning program strategy, particulary the introduction of the VCDCs, the
demonstration program has been modified to place more emphasis on the capa-
bility of the MCH services to support the national family planning program.
The program has resulted in several important surveys to evaluate program
results, continuation rates, and fertility impact.
4.08      The objective of the population education component was to assist
the GOI in introducing population education into school curricula. Technical
assistance is being provided and the Ministry of Education has developed an
effective unit dealing with population education. Workshops and group meet-
ings were held to prepare a "critical mass" of 360 teachers for the 30 pilot
project schools and 120 instructors from 30 non-formal projects covered by
the Ministry's PENMAS (community education) program. The introduction of
population education into five selected subjects was made and supporting
teaching material prepared. To take advantage of the Ministry's introduc-
tion of new curricula at all stages of school education over a three-year
period from 1976, the GOI decided to introduce population education on a
national scale and the project was slightly amended towards this objec-
tive.
4.09      The extension of the hospital postpartum program as conceived
by the project, is proceeding as planned. Originally assisted by a WHO
advisor, the project provides support for salaries and operating costs.
Vehicles and equipment have been procured. Of all delivery and abortion
cases, about 25% became "direct" acceptors (i.e., those who accept before
or within three months of their discharge), which compares favorably with
international experience. Acceptance of IUD (about 27%) is higher than
that of the national program.



- 10 -
4.10      Since the Bank Group first became associated with the Indonesian
national program in 1969, the NFPCB's budget has grown 12 times and the
number of new acceptors recruited each year has increased from 53,000 to
almost 2 million. The program's achievements in comparison with other
national programs of similar size, are impressive. The credit for the success
of the program rests with the GOI, particularly the way in which it has
utilized indigeneous administrative and social systems to expand family
planning activities. In the implementation of a program in which social
change is an essential feature, the GOI has shown itself capable of learning
from experience and willing to make changes. The use of foreign assistance
has also been critical to the program's development, not only in providing
materials, vehicles and funds but in helping the NFPCB to maintain the impor-
tance of the need for fertility moderation at the highest levels of the
Indonesian Government. Project review missions have provided the opportunity
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank and the GOI on program development
and improving internal and external coordination of a set of complex activ-
ities. The NFPCB's development plans and the composition of the proposed
project reflect in great part the conclusions of these discussions. Details
of the progress of the implementation of the joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project
are given in Annex 3.
V. NFPCB'S MEDIUM-TERM PLANS
5.01      Within the context of its long-term goal of reducing fertility
levels by 50% in the period 1976-2000, the NFPCB has developed a program
strategy through the end of the third national five-year plan in 1983-84.
The objective of the program in this period is to reduce fertility, ex-
pressed as reducing the birth rate to 34 per 1,000 population from about
44 per 1,000 in 1970.
5.02      In program terms, the reduction in fertility will be achieved
by raising the percentage of current users from its present level of 24.1%
to 35% for Java and Bali, from 6.2% to 25% for the 10 provinces of the other
islands and to 15% for the remaining provinces where the program will start in
1979. To achieve these targets, the program will need to augment the number
of acceptors recruited and improve continuation rates. In Java and Bali this
implies recruiting about 15.15 million new acceptors in the next seven program
years, about 4.45 million in the 10 provinces of the other islands, and about
0.7 million in the remaining provinces. The details of these targets, includ-
ing the contraceptive mix needed to achieve them, and the strategy of the
medium-term plan are given in Annex 4.
5.03      In order to recruit 20.3 million acceptors in Indonesia between
1977-78 and 1983-84, the NFPCB plans to reinforce the changes in strategy
which have been apparent for the last three years. The strategy is to
transfer to the community and individual the sense of urgent commitment to
family planning which now exists at the higher levels of Government and to
incorporate the concepts of fertility moderation in all Government devel-
opment programs. To this end, the NFPCB proposes to:



- 11 -
a.   improve the efficiency of motivational and contracep-
tive delivery services for existing static and VCDCs
through better direction and supervision exercised by
NFPCB bureaus;
b.   expand service outlets by providing staff with the
mobility to reach areas of dispersed settlement and/
or difficult terrain;
c.   expand the number of VCDCs particularly in the other
islands;
d.   ensure the availability of contraceptive supplies by
developing a local production capability;
e.   ensure the greater involvement of provincial and
community authorities;
f.   ensure greater awareness of the small family norm
and its social and economic benefits among indivi-
duals, (particularly married couples and those to
be married) and community institutions through more
intensive IEC activities, including a national popu-
lation education program; and
g.   improve program support services in the fields of
training and education, program management, and
research and evaluation.
5.04      These plans are based on the experiences gained in implementing the
national program over the last seven years. They reflect the change in
direction, evident since 1974, from reliance on static service centres towards
community-oriented distribution and motivation activities. Set firmly in the
cultural context of Indonesian life, the proposals should bring about wider
acceptance of the need for family planning and avoid the "plateauing effect"
evident in other national programs which have concentrated on the mechanics
of service delivery. The targets of the medium-term plan have been estab-
lished with due regard to past achievements. In this respect, and given the
high political and financial commitment to the program by the Government, the
targets are realistic. They will be achieved primarily through an extension
of service and motivation activities to the smallest community units. The
first project provided the wide-ranging support needed to help to establish
the program; activities to be supported under the proposed second project
focus primarily on the motivational and service activities needed to reach
these communities. Government financial support for the national program
during the third five-year plan has not yet been finalized. The NFPCB's
budget is expected to be about US$300 million equivalent or about twice that
allocated for the second plan.



- 12 -
VI. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Components
6.01      The proposed project is based on the medium-term plans of the
NFPCB outlined above. It is designed to support the national family plan-
ning program in Java, Bali and the 10 provinces of the other islands by
responding to needs identified by the NFPCB and endorsed by the appraisal
mission as essential towards the achievement of the NFPCB's medium-term
objective of reducing the national birth rate to 34 per 1,000 by 1984.  The
proposed project's specific objectives are to:
a.   enhance the mobility of family planning staff to
enable them to provide services to population
groups who cannot now easily avail themselves of
services provided by static outlets;
b.   assist the national program to widen and strengthen
its education and motivation activities aimed at
providing widespread acceptance of the small family
norm and contraceptive practice; and
c.   support the administration of the national program
by providing office facilities and assistance for
its plan to achieve a national contraceptive pro-
duction capability.
6.02      To these ends, the proposed project, to be implemented over
a period of five years, consists of the following components:
a.   provision of 274 equipped, four-wheel drive vehicles,
1,661 motorcycles, and 8 small, equipped motor-
boats, together with IUD and public health nurse
kits for the 1,661 motorcycles provided under this
project and 1,405 motorcycles now in use without
kits, as well as support for their maintenance and
operation (US$13.5 million);
b.   construction and equipment of facilities for the
NFPCB's Bureau of Education and Training in Jakarta and
PTCs in each of the 10 provinces of the other islands,
with support for staffing, maintenance, provision of
special equipment, transport, fellowships and technical
assistance, together with the construction of 10 NFPCB
offices, as well as support for their maintenance,
and operation, which will be built in conjunction
with the PTCs on the same sites (US$21.5 million);



- 13 -
c.   provision of education materials, seminars, workshops,
fellowships and technical assistance to complete the
integration of population education into formal
school curricula and non-formal education programs
(US$4.0 million); and
d.   two research studies providing:
i.   technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation
studies and incentives for the introduction of a
pilot community incentive scheme in Java, Bali,
North Sumatra and South Sulawesi designed to
promote family planning in 14 of the most
economically underdeveloped kecamatans (US$2.9
million); and
ii.  technical assistance, fellowships and special
equipment, for a study of the feasibility of
providing raw materials for local oral contra-
ceptive production from botanical material
available in Indonesia (US$2.4 million).
B. Mobile Family Planning Services
6.03      The first stage of the national program relied on the establishment
of static centres to provide family planning services. Through March 1977,
there were 2,719 such centres in Java and Bali and 901 in the 10 provinces of
the other islands. In order to reach local communities which cannot easily
avail themselves of these services because of long distances from the static
centre or because of difficult terrain, the two primary implementing units of
the NFPCB--the MOH and the ABRI-are provided with funds to operate mobile
services. These are of two types. Firstly, there is a mobile team working
from the kabupaten headquarters in the case of the MOH and the DENKES (an area
corresponding to the kapupaten) in the case of ABRI. The team is drawn from
staff working at the kabupaten and comprises a doctor, supervisory midwife,
and PKK. At present, such teams rely on transport made available on an
irregular basis by the NFPCB, MOH authorities or the Bupati. The second type
consists of a midwife or PKK working from the public health centre (PUSKESMAS)
at the kecamatan level. The first project provided 400 motorcycles for such
staff, but the remainder rely on the vagaries of public transport. Both
types of mobile team link up with community authorities, family planning
fieldworkers and village volunteers in the field. A recent study has demon-
strated that the provision of motorcycles does result in an increase in
the number of acceptors recruited.
6.04      The proposed project will provide 274 four-wheel drive vehicles to-
gether with the necessary equipment for providing services (e.g., IUD-
insertion kits) and supporting motivation activities (e.g., cassette tape



- 14 -
recorders). Of these, 172 will be operated by the MOH and 102 by the ABRI.
In addition, eight small motorboats will be provided for use in kabupatens
in five provinces of the other -Islan-us where rivers provide the only means
of access to remote areas. Distribution has been determined on the basis
of difficulty of terrain and non-availability of reliable transport. For
midwives at the PUSKESMAS level, the project will provide 1,661 motorcycles,
together with IUD and public health nurse kits. Kits will also be provided
for 1,405 midwifery teams of this type which have transport but no kits.
6.05      Health and family planning services provided by ABRI (covering
the army, navy, airforce and police) are available to civilians as well
as military personnel and complement those provided by the MOH. The ABRI
health services, as one of the NFPCB's implementing units, are an integral
part of the national family planning program. In 1975-76, they were re-
sponsible for recruiting 74,464 new acceptors, 39.8% of whom were civilians.
6.06      All vehicles, whether operated by the MOH or ABRI, will be owned
and maintained by the NFPCB. As such, they will be identifiable by color,
markings and registration as NFPCB vehicles. All drivers recruited to oper-
ate the four-wheel drive vehicles will be civilians. The first project
provided for technical assistance to help the NFPCB in organizing, managing
and maintaining its vehicle fleet. Comprehensive instructions covering these
aspects were issued by the NFPCB Chairman in 1975, but they are being reviewed
as to their completeness and effectiveness. Assurances have been obtained
that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be made to monitor from time
to time the maintenance and operation of vehicles provided under the project
during the project implementation period. Details of this component are
provided in Annex 5.
C. Family Planning Training
6.07      The training component of the proposed project comprises the
construction, equipment and establishment of facilities for the NFPCB's
Bureau of Education and Training in Jakarta and 10 PTCs in the 10 provinces
of the other islands now covered by the national family planning program.
Support will include the provision of special equipment, foreign books and
journals, salaries and operating costs, technical assistance, transport,
fellowships, audiovisual material production and research.
6.08      Until the establishment of the NFPCB in 1970, the IPPA, supported
by funds from the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) 1/
was solely responsible for family planning training. After that date, and
with additional funds from the NFPCB, the IPPA contributed to upgrading and
updating the knowledge and skills of family planning staff. Since 1968 the
IPPA has operated a National Training Centre in Jakarta and, since 1971, six
PTCs and three STCs. In addition, the MOH was subsidized by the NFPCB to
undertake family planning training in four of its STCs.
1/   An international federation of independent voluntary family planning
organizations.



- 15 -
6.09      The joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project included a training component
designed to respond to training needs in Java and Bali. It included provi-
sion for the construction, equipment and establishment of six PTCs and 10 STCs.
The project also provided for the establishment of a standing committee on
family planning training which was established in 1973 as the National Train-
ing Board. One of its terms of reference was to advise the NFPCB Chairman on
training policies and priorities, the apportionment of training responsibil-
ities and the use for training purposes of the facilities included in the
project. Five PTCs and 10 STCs have been constructed; the remaining PTC in
Surabaya is scheduled for completion in April 1978.
6.10      Discussions in the National Training Board on training responsibil-
ities have gone on for the last three years in the context of an expanding
national program, decentralization of administration to the provincial level,
and the spread of family planning service and motivation activities to the
community level. Early in 1976, the NFPCB decided to assume responsibility for
training in order to establish a cohesive national training system which would
provide unified technical guidance to trainers, ensure standardized curricula
for trainees based on program needs, and carry out as a routine measure the
evaluation of training activities. Another important factor was the need to
make adequate provision for the expanding training and educational programs
which the NFPCB medium-term plans indicate as critical in meeting the objec-
tives of persuading individuals and communities to accept the small family
norm and contraceptive practice. A further factor was the sharp reduction in
funds available to the IPPA from the IPPF and consequent loss of its training
capability.
6.11      The NFPCB's plans for the development of family planning training
include:
a.   the development and expansion of the existing Bureau
for Education and Training to cope with increased
training responsibilities and functions, which will
involve the construction and equipment of new
facilities, replacing the IPPA institution which
will now be used by the IPPA for other family
planning activities (see paragraph 3.05);
b.   the preparation of a national family planning training
system covering organization, administration, training
strategy and evaluation;
c.   the take-over of training institutions and staff
previously the responsibility of the IPPA;
d.   the establishment of PTCs in each of the 10 provinces
of the other islands covered by the second phase of
the national program.



- 16 -
6.12      The Bureau of Education and Training will require expanded faci-
lities to perform the functions needed to coordinate and conduct training
at the national level. These functions include:
a.   planning and preparing national family planning
training programs;
b.   providing technical guidance for the implementation
of training at PTC and STC levels;
c.   conducting training and education courses for trainers,
senior management officials and senior GOI officials;
and
d.   conducting training research and evaluation.
The Bureau is headed by a Chief who is directly responsible to the NFPCB's
Deputy Chairman for Program Development. It will consist of five divisions
covering family planning education and training, population education,
training organization, research and documentation and a division responsi-
ble for training at the national level. To cover the changes the NFPCB
Chairman will issue a Decree which has been approved by the Government.
6.13      The PTCs in the other islands will be responsible for training
in the provinces in which they are situated. Each PTC will have a staff
of one director, one deputy director, one administrative coordinator and
five trainers. The NFPCB is now recruiting full-time staff primarily from
among IPPA volunteers who, up to now, have organized training courses on an
ad hoc basis. Because these provinces have smaller, more dispersed popula-
tions than those of Java and Bali, no STCs will be built.
6.14      Trainee categories have been defined and training levels assessed.
It is anticipated that in the period 1976-77 to 1983-84, over 216,000 family
planning personnel and other involved persons from Government and the com-
munity will receive training and orientation. The NFPCB's Bureau of Education
and Training will be responsible for training some 6,500 people at national
level. PTC training loads (including STCs where applicable) vary from some
41,000 in Central Java to about 5,000 in Lampung. Accommodation needs,
derived from anticipated training loads, are shown in 2Annex 13.  In Lampung,
North Sulawesi end West Nusatenggara, PTCs of 1,200 m will be built, with
PTCs of 1,500 m in the remaining provinces. This is in response to differing
population sizes and training loads.
6.15      The project also provides for 42 man-months of technical assistance
in the fields of family planning training, management training and curriculum
development. Provision is also made for 167 man-months of overseas fellow-
ships for staff development including professional and technical training and
study tours, because of the paucity of subject specialists in Indonesia with
specific family planning orientation. The proposed project includes support
for research studies which will be designed to identify the impact of training
in terms of staff outputs and program results. They will be carried out by



- 17 -
the Bureau's staff with the assistance of the PTCs, STCs and the Bureau of
Research and Evaluation in the NFPCB. Details of this component are provided
in Annex 6.
D. Family Planning and Population Centres
6.16      In view of the planned expansion of the national program in the
10 provinces of the other islands between 1977-78 and 1983-84, program
administration and management will be strengthened. From an average pro-
vincial staff of 16 persons, staff expansion to 42 persons will be required.
The NFPCB proposes to concentrate its activities in the other island pro-
vinces in family planning and population centres at provincial capitals.
These centres will comprise the PTC described in paragraph 6.13 above, as
well as a family planning administrative office and information centre.
The two buildings will be functionally separate but linked on the same site.
Certain facilities such as the library, audiovisual and reproduction facil-
ities will be shared. Over the next seven years, the other island provinces
are expected to train some 83,000 officials and community leaders and recruit
4 million new acceptors. Present office accommodation is small, either rented
or borrowed from another Government department, and quite inadequate, both for
present and future needs. Renting was considered by the NFPCB but rejected
because of the lack of suitable accommodation and high rents. The proposed
project provides for the construction of 10 provincial offices in conjunction
with the PTCs to provide comprehensive family planning and population centres,
as well as support for equipment, maintenance and operating costs. Details
of the centres are given in Annex 7.
E. Population Education
6.17      The joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project provided assistance for the
establishment of a National Population Education Project in 1973, jointly
implemented by the NFPCB and the Department of Education and Culture of
the Ministry of Education. Operationally, the project's initial objectives
were to examine the implications of introducing population education into
school curricula and out-of-school and community education programs. Pilot
curricula were prepared, teachers trained and teaching materials prepared to
introduce population education into five key subjects--home economics, civics,
geography, biology, and religion. The trials covered 60 schools at two
secondary grades (grades 8 and 11) and 30 centres operated by PENMAS (com-
munity education programs organized by the Ministry of Education). Educa-
tional administrators (70), school teachers (360), PENMAS instructors (120),
and key provincial education officers (25) were trained and oriented.
6.18      The pilot program was evaluated in 1975 and its results indicated
that the integration of population education with the chosen subjects was
feasible. Its introduction, however, would require substantial administra-
tive support, guidance, teaching and audiovisual materials. Response from
teachers, students and communities was positive. Late in 1975, the Minister
for Education issued a Decree which enabled the replacement of all school



- 18 -
curricula with new curricula over a three-year period starting in 1976.
The Decree also authorized the integration of population education into all
fields of study. In August 1976, another Decree extended this innovation to
secondary school teacher training institutes. As a result, the project's
operational plan was modified to assist the Ministry of Education in making
population education a normal part of its work.
6.19      The proposed project component's objective is to extend these
activities over a three-year period in order to complete the integration
of population education into teacher training and vocational institutes,
school curricula and out-of-school community programs run by PENMAS.  It
will cover the whole of Indonesia.  The project will provide support for
teacher training, production of teaching materials including books and
audiovisual aids, 12 man-months of technical assistance, and 90 man-months
of fellowships for the training of the Ministry of Education staff abroad
to build up a core group capability in population education. The project
also supports the administrative and evaluation aspects of the program.
By the end of 1978, it is estimated that population education will have
been integrated into curricula covering all school grades (some 30 million
students), community education courses (about 50,000 people), and GOI-
supported teacher training institutes (340).
6.20      The extension of support for assistance in population education
activities to voluntary agencies, such as the IPPA, the Scout Organization
(Pramuka), and the National Committee for Indonesian Youth, as well as reli-
gious schools operated by the Muhammadiyah, has been planned separately
and will probably be funded directly by the UNFPA. The Bank is providing
support for teacher training under a proposed fifth education project and
for the activities of PENMAS under a proposed sixth education project; the
proposed project will provide complementary assistance. Details of the
proposed component are given in Annex 8.
F. Research
6.21      In the joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project, assistance was provided
for a variety of population and family planning research activities. The
objectives of the support were to enhance the research capability of the
NFPCB and the Population Studies Centre of the Institute for Social and
Economic Research. Background information on the project's activities are
given above in paragraph 4.07 and Annex 3. This field of activity has been
given substantial support from other agencies, notably USAID and the Ford
Foundation. The former has assisted a variety of operational research pro-
jects, such as the pilot VCDC program, and the establishment of an effective
statistical reporting system. Demographic research and training organized
by the Institute of Demography have been the focus of Ford Foundation assist-
ance. These agencies are likely to continue their assistance at effective
levels and the GOI has asked for Bank support for two particular research
studies--a community incentive scheme and a study of the feasibility of pro-
ducing in Indonesia raw materials needed for the manufacture of oral
contraceptives.



- 19 -
Community Incentive Scheme
6.22      Such evidence that is available points to the conclusion that
the sustained practice of family planning depends in large measure upon an
improvement in socio-economic conditions. Since the start of the first
five-year plan (which ended on March 31, 1974), the GOI has provided support
to the poorest and most densely populated kecamatans for labor intensifica-
tion programs. These kecamatans have average population densities between
1,000 and 4,000 per km  and the value of production per capita/year is less
than Rp 21,000 (US$50.60) at 1973 prices. A comparison has been made between
the average cumulative acceptors per 1,000 married women in the reproductive
age group (15-44 years) in poorest kecamatans and other kecamatans in Java
and Bali. The data have many weaknesses but do indicate, except in Central
Java, a distinct relationship between socio-economic conditions and family
planning program outputs. Expressed as a percentage, performance in the
"poorest" kecamatans of Bali is only 49% of that of the "richer" kecamatans;
comparable percentages for the other provinces are West Java 80%, Central
Java 99%, East Java 79% and Yogyakarta 53%.
6.23      The proposed project makes provision for a community incentive
scheme, the primary objective of which is to test whether the promotion
and acceptance of the small family norm by the people themselves and their
communities can be fostered by the application of rewards for pre-defined
community achievements in family planning. This experimental scheme will
also test institutional arrangements for direct Government intervention
in fertility behavior through the manipulation of the socio-economic envi-
ronment. The scheme will generate data to be used in examining the inter-
relationship between family planning performance, fertility behavior and
developmental inputs. The project provides for monitoring and evaluation
studies, incentive funds, technical assistance and operating costs for the
study. Fourteen kecamatans in Java, Bali, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi
will be selected from among the poorest and most densely populated. Of
these, seven with above average and seven with below average family plan-
ning performance will be selected. The 15 or so villages in each of these
kecamatans will be given specific targets expressed as contraceptive user
(or prevalence) rates. One of the major problems with schemes similar to
the one proposed is the adoption of targets which do not discriminate between
communities with varying demographic backgrounds, which do not have readily
apparent consequences and which cannot be easily explained to participating
communities. The user-rate will be fair, is directly related to continuing
contraceptive practice but will be difficult to explain. In the absence
of baseline data, however, there is no alternative way of setting the first
year's targets. With the accumulation of data and in the light of practical
experience, the way in which the target of fertility reduction is expressed
is likely to change. Targets will be connected with the NFPCB's national
long-term targets as applied to a particular province. A simple linear de-
cline indicates that each community would need to reduce its fertility by
at least 1.7% per annum if the national target is to be achieved. If this
target is exceeded by individual villages, those which are successful will
be rewarded by a proportionate distribution of funds from a kecamatan's



- 20 -
allocation of Rp 10 million (about US$24,000). At present, INPRES develop-
ment funds for a village average Rp 300,000 (about US$720) annually. The
incentive funds will be released for projects pre-selected by the community
to support development activities. These might include community halls,
additional school classrooms, roads, irrigation systems, additional MCH/FP
facilities, or capital for the development of alternative economic opportu-
nities. The allocation of incentive funds will be adjusted, if necessary,
during the experiment to reflect the absorptive capacity of the communities.
As an essential part of the scheme, communities will be required to promote
family planning activities through existing or specially created, community
organizations such as the VCDCs (see paragraph 3.07).
6.24      The community incentive scheme will be implemented by a national
committee comprising representatives of the NFPCB, the National Development
and Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), and the Ministries of Internal Affairs and
Manpower. Committees with similar representation will be established at
provincial and kecamatans levels. Baseline surveys, evaluation, and the
annual determination of fertility levels will be the responsibility of the
NFPCB which will use the established sample survey facilities of the Central
Bureau of Statistics and the analytical facilities of the Population Studies
Centre of the Institute of Social and Economic Research and the demographic
units of provincial universities. Guidelines in the use of incentive funds
will be prepared by the national committee. Use of the funds will be deter-
mined by the kecamatan committee in accordance with the guidelines. The
Government has given assurances that, not later than four months after the
end of each GOI fiscal year, it will submit a detailed report on the progress
of the community incentive scheme to the Bank for review and will consult the
Bank on the adequacy of the scope and form of the study. The proposed project
makes provision for 20 man-months of technical assistance to support BAPPENAS
and the NFPCB in the technical implementation of the proposed scheme. Details
of the scheme are given in Annex 9.
Oral Contraceptive Raw Materials Feasibility Study
6.25      Since its inception in 1969-70, the tendency of new acceptors
recruited to the national family planning program (in Java, Bali and the 10
provinces in the other islands) to accept oral contraceptives has increased
from 27.5% to 67.7% in 1976-77. Estimates of contraceptive use made in March
1977, show that 62.0% of all continuing users of contraceptives were using
oral contraceptives, 28.6% IUDs, 5.8% condoms and 3.6% other methods. It is
estimated that about 30 million oral contraceptive cycles were consumed in
1976-77 and that about 56.0 million cycles will be required in 1983-84. To
September 1976, some 99% of the national program's supplies were provided free
by USAID; the remainder were provided by other donors, with limited additional
purchases by the GOI. Since that date, USAID supplies have been provided on a
loan basis. USAID made available a loan of US$7.5 million for this purpose in
US FY 1976-77.
6.26      Early in 1976, the GOI decided that the NFPCB should reduce its
dependence on foreign supplies and establish its own oral contraceptive
production capability. Accordingly, an agreement between the NFPCB and a



Government-controlled pharmaceutical manufacturer, Kimia Pharma, was made
by which the latter would establish a production capacity of 18 million
cycles per annum in its Bandung factory. A loan of about US$1.1 million from
the Indonesian Development Bank (BAPINDO) is being used to develop production
facilities at Bandung. Subject to guarantees of adequate production capa-
bility, part of the USAID loan will be used to purchase raw materials abroad
for local tableting and packaging. The plant is scheduled to start produc-
tion in December 1977. By 1980, the GOI plans to establish a plant in
Jakarta capable of producing 50 million cycles per annum using imported
raw materials.
6.27      At the same time, the GOI proposes to initiate a study to discover
whether there is a possibility of using locally grown botanical materials for
the production of the necessary raw materials. At present, the most versatile
precursors for the production of steroid hormones are diosgenin, from certain
species of Dioscorea, and solasidin, from certain species of Solanacese.  It
is known that species of both plants exist in Indonesia. The objective of the
proposed study is to produce steroid precursors in Indonesia using existing
natural resources.
6.28      The proposed project provides equipment, technical assistance and
operating costs for such a study which will comprise three phases:
a.   exploration for and inventory of indigeneous species
Dioscorea and Solanacese;
b.   adaptation of promising indigensous species; and
c.   phytochemical screening.
The study will be coordinated by a project coordinator appointed by NFPCB who
will chair a Committee comprising representatives of BAPPENAS, the Drug
Research Centre of the MOH, Bogor Agricultural University, and the Forestry
Department. The Bogor Agricultural University will be responsible for botani-
cal exploration and adaptation. The Drug Research Centre will be responsible
for phytochemical studies.
6.29      Notwithstanding the GOI's policy to be independent eventually
of foreign supplies of raw materials and finished products, there are other
pharmaceutical developments, such as the synthetic production of precursors,
which may outdate the study's activities at any time during its implementa-
tion. Even though new techniques are possible, there is no information
at present whether they will be available to the GOI, under what conditions
(in terms of patent rights), and how much they would cost. Assurances have
been obtained that within twenty months after the start and within three
months after the completion of the oral contraceptive raw materials feasi-
bility study, the GOI will submit to the Bank for review a detailed report
on: (i) the progress of the study; and (ii) the oral contraceptive needs
and sources of supply for the national family planning program, and will
consult the Bank on the technical and economic desirability of continuing
the study.



- 22 -
6.30      An important element of the study will be support for a fellowship
program of 18 man-months to provide training abroad for professionals involved
in the study. In addition, the study also provides for 21 man-months of
technical assistance. Details of the study, an implementation schedule and
cost estimates are given in Annex 10.
VII. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost
7.01      The total estimated project cost is US$60.0 million equivalent.
Project costs are given in Annex 11 and summarized in the following table:
Category                   Rupiah (million)               US$ (million)        Foreign
Local    Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
(M)
Civil Works
Construction           1,701.5    539.5   2,241.0        4.1     1.3      5.4        24
Professional Fees         249.0     41.5      290.5       .6       .1      .7        12
Furniture                290.5      41.5      332.0       .7       .1      .8        16
Site Development       1,618.5       -      1,618.5      3.9      -       3.9         -
Non-Civil Works
Vehicles                  83.0  1,245.0   1,328.0         .2     3.0      3.2        95
Special Equipment
and Materials           41.5    913.0       954.5       .1     2.2      2.3        95
Seminars and
Workshops              332.0      41.5      373.5       .8      .1       .9        15
Surveys and Eval-
uation                 871.5    166.0   1,037.5        2.1      .4      2.5        15
Preparation and
Production of
Training Aids          373.5      83.0      456.5       .9      .2      1.1        15
Fellowships and
Advisors                  -      290.5      290.5       -       .7       .7      100
Incremental Operat-
ing Costs              9,462.0        -    9,462.0    22.8        -     22.8        -
Physical Contingencies    332.0       83.0      415.0       .8      .1      1.0       20
Price Contingencies      5,146.0    954.5   6,100.5    12.4        2.3    14.7        16
Total Contingencies      5,478.0  1,037.5   6,515.5    13.2        2.5    15.7        16
TOTAL                   20,501.0  4,399.0  24,900.0    49.4    10.6    60.0           18



- 23 -
7.02      Cost estimates are based on salaries and prices obtaining in October
1976. Cost estimates for civil works are based on current BAPPENAS guideline
construction costs. Schedules of accommodation follow BAPPENAS standards in
this respect and have been approved by BAPPENAS. Of the 11 sites required,
five have already been acquired. Assurances have beeen obtained that all land
and rights in respect of such land for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the project will be acquired by October 31, 1977.
Site development costs include land purchase costs where applicable, building
fees and taxes, as well as site surveys and tests. Furniture costs amount to
15% of construction costs. Estimates for special equipment and materials are
based on preliminary equipment lists which were found to be reasonable in
scale and cost. Technical assistance was costed as follows: about US$1,100
per man-month for overseas training and study tours, following current GOI
regulations, and about US$6,000 per man-month for foreign advisors. The costs
of surveys, seminars, workshops and production of training aids were calculated
on the basis of acceptable local travel and per diem allowances. Project
costs cover incremental recurrent expenditures such as salaries, allowances,
maintenance and operating costs required for effective implementation (alloca-
tion between functional categories is given in Annex 11). The contingency
allowance of US$15.7 million includes: (a) physical contingencies for unfore-
seen factors estimated at 10% of base civil works costs; and (b) price contin-
gencies averaging 32.3% of base costs and physical contingencies. Contingencies
were calculated on the basis of the anticipated expenditure schedule and
expected annual price increases between 1977 and 1982 as follows:
Annual Percentages of Price Increases
Category                          1977    1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Construction, Professional Fees,
Furniture and Site Development         14       11      9    8.5
Vehicles, Special Equipment,
Materials and Incremental
Operating Costs                         9       8       8    7.5      7      7
Seminars and Workshops, Surveys
and Evaluation, Preparation
and Production of Training
Aids                                    14      11      9     9      8.5    8.5
Fellowships and Advisors                   9       9      9     8       8      8



- 24 -
7.03      Cost estimates by functional categories are summarized in the table
below:
Rupiah (in millions)    US$ (in millions)   Percent-
Category                   Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign Total  age
NFPCB's Education and
Training Bureau               1,701.5   456.5  2,158.0  4.1    1.1    5.2    11.6
Other Island PTCs               3,486.0   539.5  4,025.5  8.4    1.3    9.7    21.8
Other Island Provincial
Offices                       2,448.5   290.5  2,739.0  5.9       .7    6.6    14.9
Mobile FP Services              4,191.5 1,411.0  5,602.5 10.1    3.4   13.5    30.5
Population Education            1,452.5   207.5  1,660.0  3.5        .5    4.0      9.1
Community Incentive Scheme    1,037.5   166.0  1,203.5  2.5          .4    2.9      6.6
Contraceptive Study               705.5   290.5    996.0  1.7        .7    2.4      5.5
TOTAL                    15,023.0 3,361.5 18,384.5 36.2    8.1   44.3   100.0
Contingencies             5,478.0 1,037.5  6,515.5 13.2    2.5   15.7
Total Project Costs      20,501.0 4,399.0 24,900.0 49.4   10.6   60.0
B. Proposed Financing
7.04      The project would be financed by a loan of US$24.5 million equiva-
lent, (40.8% of total project costs) covering the total foreign exchange
cost of US$10.6 million equivalent and US$13.9 million equivalent (28.1%) of
local costs. The remaining US$35.5 million equivalent would be financed by
the GOI. The proposed loan would have a term of 20 years, including four and
one-half years of grace.
C. Disbursement and Accounts
7.05      The joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project provided support for incre-
mental operating costs on a declining basis shared between the GOI and IDA
and the UNFPA. Following the GOI's financial regulations, the NFPCB allocated
Credit/Grant funds to a budget supplementary to its normal (development)
budget which carried the GOI's share of project costs. These budgets are
processed at different times by different sections of the various ministries
involved. It proved impossible to draw funds for specific activities from
each budget at the same time and thus created considerable problems. It
resulted in hardships for staff whose salaries were split and administrative
difficulties in providing funds for project implementation when required.
In order not to split the funding of components between budgets again, the GOI
has requested that it should be responsible for all incremental operating



- 25 -
costs and the costs of site development. The Bank loan would, therefore, be
disbursed against the remaining project costs over a period of five years
against the categories shown in the following table:
% of
Amount of the Loan Allocated      Expenditures
Category              (Expressed in US$ Equivalent)   to be Financed
Civil Works                           7,700,000              100% of total
expenditures
Furniture and Special
Equipment                          3,900,000
a.  Directly Imported                                      100% of foreign
expenditures
b.  Locally Manufactured                                   95% of total ex-
factory expendi-
tures
c.  Imported Good                                          65% of total ex-
Procured Locally                                      penditures
Vehicles                              3,500,000
a.  Imported Directly                                      100% of foreign
expenditures
b.  Locally Assembled                                      40% of total
expenditures
Consultants' and Experts'                                    100% of total
Services and Fellowships           1,700,000                 expenditures
Operational Costs of Studies,                                100% of total
Workshops and Seminars             3,300,000                 expenditures
Preparation, Production and                                  100% of total
Costs of Training Aids             1,100,000               expenditures
Unallocated                           3,300,000
TOTAL                          24,500,000
Undisbursed funds would be available for reallocation to other components or
activities related to the project, contingent on Bank approval. The estimated
disbursement schedule is given in Annex 12.
7.06      A separate project account will be maintained by the NFPCB Secre-
tariat which will be responsible for submitting withdrawal applications to



- 26 -
the Bank. Assurances have been obtained that copies of the audited project
accounts will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of each GOI fiscal year.
D. Procurement
7.07      Civil works (US$5.4 million before contingencies) would be tendered
on the basis of 11 contracts--one for the NFPCB's Education and Training
Bureau in Jakarta and one for each of the 10 provincial and family planning
population centres (comprising a PTC and a provincial NFPCB office). Indonesia
has a well-developed construction industry and foreign contractors not already
established in Indonesia are unlikely to bid due to the relatively small
contracts (estimated to range from US$300,000 to US$670,000 equivalent) and
the scattered construction sites. Furniture (US$0.8 million before contingen-
cies) bid packages will be small and unattractive to foreign contractors.
Contracts covering civil works and furniture would, therefore, be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding. Bidding would be in accordance with
current Government procurement procedures which have been found satisfactory
to the Bank. Government regulations require civil works contractors to be
pre-qualified. Foreign contractors would not be excluded from bidding.
Contract packages of US$50,000 equivalent and over for furniture, and all
civil works contracts would be awarded after prior Bank review.
7.08      Vehicles (US$3.2 million before contingencies) would be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Preference would be accorded to qualified local manufacturers of
vehicles at 15% of the CIF bid price of such goods, or the amount of customs
duty and other import taxes levied on a non-exempt importer, whichever is the
lower.
7.09      The project includes provision of US$2.3 million before contingen-
cies for the procurement of special equipment including medical kits, office
equipment, equipment and materials for audiovisual prototype development, and
training equipment, including books, films and filmstrips, as well as equip-
ment and materials for botanical analysis and phytochemical screening.
This special equipment and material is diverse and specialized and cannot be
packaged in lots suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts
for special equipment will, therefore, be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding where foreign suppliers are well represented and where
there are sufficient suppliers to ensure adequate competition. Foreign
suppliers would not be excluded from bidding. Local tendering procedures
have been examined and found satisfactory to the Bank. Contract packages of
US$50,000 equivalent and over would be awarded after prior Bank review.
Furniture, miscellaneous special equipment and materials, in packages not
exceeding US$10,000 equivalent, subject to an aggregate total not exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent, could be procured on a basis of reasonable and compe-
titive procedures without resort to local competitive bidding.



- 27 -
7.10      Consultant services would be procured in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines.
E. Implementation
7.11      The NFPCB, through its own organization and those of its implement-
ing units, will be responsible for project implementation. Because of im-
proved program management since the inception of the joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted
project, the creation of a special project implementation unit is not con-
sidered necessary. Implementation will be undertaken by the appropriate NFPCB
bureaus and implementing units. The Chairman of the NFPCB will have overall
responsibility for the administrative and financial execution of the project.
7.12      Implementation of civil works will be the immediate responsibility
of the NFPCB Secretariat reinforced by staff now working on the joint project.
Assurances have been obtained that qualified and experienced staff in adequate
numbers will be appointed by October 31, 1977, to assist the NFPCB Secretariat
to implement the civil works component, and will include at least one con-
struction coordinator, two engineers, four job captains, two draftsmen and
supporting clerical staff. Local architectural consultants will be retained
to prepare the designs and supervise construction contracts. The selection
of all consultant architects is subject to approval by the Ministry of Public
Works.  Schedules of accommodation and implementation are given in Annex 13.
7.13      Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out by the Bureau
of Supervision under the NFPCB Deputy Chairman I, and the Bureau of Reporting
and Recording under the Deputy Chairman III. Quarterly project progress re-
ports will be prepared by the NFPCB Secretariat for the review and signature
of the NFPCB Chairman and transmittal to the Bank not more than eight weeks
after the end of each quarter.
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The medium-term target of the national family planning program is
to reduce the birth rate from its 1970 level of about 44 to 34 per 1,000 by
1983-84.  This will involve recruiting 20.3 million new acceptors between
1977-78 and 1983-84. Given the commitment of the highest levels of Govern-
ment to reduce fertility and the success of the program since its inception,
these targets are realistic. At least 90% of the fertility reduction will be
directly attributable to the national program, the strengthening and expansion
of which is the objective of the proposed project. It is not possible to
calculate precisely the contribution which the proposed project will make to
the program. If the anticipated fertility reduction is achieved by 1983-84,
the total population of Indonesia will be some 2.5 million fewer than if the
program made only half its anticipated impact. By the year 2000 the differ-
ence in population would be about 49 million people.



- 28 -
8.02      The contribution of the project towards this fertility decline
results from its support for the strengthening and expansion of the manage-
ment and activities of the family planning training program. By assuming
responsibility for training, the NFPCB will be better able to ensure that
training is directed towards program needs and is of a satisfactory quality.
The provision of training facilities will be strengthened by the expansion
and development of the NFPCB's Bureau of Education and Training to provide
high-level training direction and supervision and expanded by the establish-
ment of 10 additional training centres on the other islands. The direct
benefits of the training program include improved program management and
supervision, enhanced professional and technical skills, greater cohesion
and direction of purpose among family planning staff, an expanded number of
and better trained voluntary workers for the VCDC scheme, and greater aware-
ness of population issues among community officials and leaders.
8.03      Provision of better mobility for the staff of the implementing
units will lead to an extension of services to population groups not easily
covered by the static service system. It will promote cooperation between
family planning staff, other Government agencies and the communities which
they serve. This in time will facilitate greater awareness of the small
family norm and its economic and social benefits as well as the acceptance
of contraceptive practice. The provision of MCH services linked with family
planning activities will contribute toward improved MCH and a reduction in
infant mortality which should indirectly contribute to fertility reduction in
the long run. The mobile teams will also facilitate the delivery of the more
reliable contraceptive methods, such as the IUD, and thus promote improved
contraceptive continuation which is one of the components of the NFPCB's
fertility reduction strategy.
8.04      The program's motivational and educational activities will also be
considerably strengthened by the proposed project's support for the population
education program. By 1980, population education will have been incorporated
in appropriate curricula in the school system and in the appropriate course
contents used for community education. The immediate benefit will be greater
awareness of population issues among young people. The long-term benefit
will be the more ready response to family planning motivation work which such
awareness should facilitate.
8.05      For the long-term, the results of the community incentive scheme
will be of value to national planning staff by providing data and information
on the linkages between improved socio-economic conditions and fertility.
They should also provide insights into the means whereby the family planning
program's long-term strategy objective--that of transferring to the community
and the individual the sense of urgent commitment to family planning which now
exists at the higher levels of Government--can be achieved.
8.06      The oral contraceptive raw materials feasibility study will provide
valuable information in support of the GOI's policy of establishing a local
manufacturing capability. It will directly benefit the program by training a
core group of professionals to acquire a knowledge of oral contraceptive re-
search and production which is now totally lacking in Indonesia.



- 29 -
8.07      A reduction in the rate of growth of the population will assist
efforts to reduce pressures on agricultural land, particularly in Java and
Bali which would build up without interventions designed to reduce fertility.
It will also eventually enable a reallocation of resources from the social
sector--health, education and housing--to productive investments required to
improve national economic performance. Because entrants into the labor force
for the next 15 years or so have already been born, alternative fertility
trends are unlikely to have any noteworthy impact on the size of the labor
force up to the year 2000 and a sharp fertility decline is unlikely to con-
tribute significantly towards relieving the employment problem. However, the
anticipated pace of fertility decline will affect the proportion of the labor
force to the total population by more than 10% and thus cause a significant
decline in the dependency burden.
8.08      Continued Bank support will assist the Government in maintaining
a strong political, administrative and financial commitment to the strengthen-
ing and expansion of its national family planning program.
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following principal points:
a.   arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be made to monitor
from time to time the maintenance and operation of vehicles
provided under the project during the project implementation
period (para. 6.06);
b.   not later than four months after the end of each GOI fiscal
year, the GOI will submit a detailed report on the progress
of the community incentive scheme to the Bank for review
and will consult the Bank on the adequacy of the scope
and form of the study (para. 6.24);
c.   within twenty months after the start and within three months
after the completion of the oral contraceptive raw materials
feasibility study, the GOI will submit to the Bank for review
a detailed report on: (i) the progress of the study; and (ii)
the oral contraceptive needs and sources of supply for the
national family planning program, and will consult the Bank
on the technical and economic desirability of continuing
the study (para. 6.29);
d.   all land and rights in respect of such land for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities included in the project
will be acquired by October 31, 1977 (para. 7.02);
e.   copies of the audited project accounts will be submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
GOI fiscal year (para. 7.06); and



- 30 -
f.   qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers including
at least one construction coordinator, two engineers, four
job captains, two draftsmen and supporting clerical staff,
will be appointed by October 31, 1977, to assist the NFPCB
Secretariat to implement the civil works component (para. 7.12).
9.02      Subject to the fulfillment of the assurances listed above, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$24.5 million to the Government of
Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of four and one-
half years.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA II: MOBILE FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
Objective
1.        The objective of this component is to carry family planning
and basic health services to areas and people beyond the reach of static
service centres. This will result in increasing the number of new accep-
tors and continuing users of contraception. It will also support the
national program in its plan to spread family planning information to the
community level.
Project
2.        To these ends, the proposed project will provide for the procure-
ment of:
a.   274 four-wheel drive vehicles and auxiliary equipment;
b.   1,661 motorcycles;
c.   8 small motorboats with auxiliary equipment;
d.   282 IUD and MCH kits for the four-wheel drive vehicles
and boats;
e.   3,066 IUD and public health nurse kits for 1,661
motorcycles to be procured under the project and 1,405
motorcycles presently in operation;
f.   maintenance and operating costs of the four-wheel drive
vehicles, boats and motorcycles; and
g.   salaries for 282 drivers.
Background
3.        This transport will be procured and owned by the National Family
Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB) and operated by two of its major imple-
menting units--the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Armed Forces (ABRI)
Health Services. A schematic presentation of the organization of the
provincial health services is given in Chart 1. The main outlets for
the delivery of health and family planning services are the primary
health centres (PUSKESMAS) and sub-centres (POSKES) situated at kecamatan
level and below. By the end of the second five-year plan in 1978, each
kecamatan will have at least one PUSKESMAS. This target has already been
achieved in Java and Bali and in eight of the 10 provinces in the other
islands covered by the national family planning program. The current
number of PUSKESMAS is shown in Table 1.



ANNEX 5
'Oage 2
4.        The PUSKESMAS are supervised from the kabupaten health office,
headed by the dokter kabupaten (DOKABU). Among his staff ' rs is a
division chief in charge of PUSKESMAS which includes maternal and child
health and family plaining(MCH/FP) services; this oerson may be either a
doctor or a midwife. In Java and Bali, the NFPCB coordinator is responsi-
ble for coordinating the family planning work of all implementing units
at the kabupaten level. An information officer through his staff provides
mass communications support for the program. The Bupati (kabupaten
administrator belonging to the Department of the Interior and responsible
to the Governor of the Province) is in overall charge of the program.
5.        At a minimum, every four PUSKESMAS have one doctor who is the
head of one PUSKESMAS, and provides clinical services in and supervises
the work of the other three. In Java and Bali the ratio of doctor to
PUSKESMAS is higher. The full complement of staff in a PUSKESMAS in
Java and Bali is: a quarter-time doctor (at the minimum), one midwife,
one nurse, one auxiliary health worker, one sanitary worker, two communi-
cable disease workers, one family planning group leader and four to five
family planning fieldworkers; one (general) information assistant and one
religious information assistant, functionaries of the Departments of
Information and Religion respectively, serve the entire kecamatan. The
Camat (kecamatan administrator and belonging to the Department of the
Interior and responsible to the Bupati) is in charge of all Government pro-
grams in the kecamatan.
6.        Insofar as the family planning program is concerned, the chief
difference between Java and Bali and the other islands at the PUSKESMAS
level is that there are no fieldworkers in the other islands. There is,
however, an auxiliary worker who assists the midwife both at the clinic
and in domiciliary care. She may either be a formally trained PKE
(auxiliary midwife) or have received ad hoc training at the clinic. As
she is engaged in home visiting for the MCH program and health education,
she is an eminently suitable person to do face-to-face education for
family planning; she is, in fact, already being involved in community
education activities for family planning. The MOH initends to assign her
to family planning work on a full-time basis and call her a family planning
motivator.
7.        The ABRI is an important implementing unit of the family plan-
ning program providing services to both military personnel and civilians,
as all facilities are open to the civilian population. ABRI personnel
do not always live in well-demarcated areas but are interspersed among
civilian communities. The ABRI has four constituent health services
operated by the army, navy, airforce and police. A schematic presen-
tation of the organization of ABRI health services is given in Chart 2.
It is structured along lines similar to the MOH organization with the
DENKES equivalent to the kabupaten and the DETKES equivalent to a
PUSKESMAS. Table 2 gives details of the recruitment of acceptors



ANNEX 5
Page 3
by the ABRI health services in 1975-76 in the six provinces of Java and
Bali. Overall, 74,464 new acceptors were recruited, of whom 39.8% were
civilians. In East Java, 51% of new acceptors recruited between 1970
and 1976 were civilians. The equivalent percentage for the first quarter
of the 1976-77 program year for East Java was 62.1%.
Experience with Mobile Units
8.        Experience in Indonesia has shown that the motivation required
for a potential acceptor to go to a static clinic, which might be a few
miles away from her residence, is of a much higher order than that needed
to accept a method when the service is brought to her doorstep. This
observation and the difficulties of rural communications in Indonesia
have led to the utilization of mobile clinics and making clinic staff
mobile by providing transport, so that the barrier of distance between
people and the service is broken down. Mobility of staff, besides result-
ing in the dispersal of the sources of service, greatly facilitates
community education and follow-up care of family planning acceptors.
9.        Having recognized this feature, the MOH initially encouraged mid-
wives and assistant midwives (PKK) to travel within their kecamatans by
providing them with transportation and operational costs of Rp 5,000 per
trip. According to the work plan, fieldworkers, together with local vol-
unteers, prepare the community in advance of the midwife's visit by conduct-
ing an educational program, identifying potential acceptors, and encourag-
ing them to assemble at a pre-determined place, usually the village headman's
(Lurah's) house, on the appointed day; the local information worker would
participate in the program. Upon arrival, the midwife gives a group talk,
answers questions, allays fears, clarifies misconceptions and, after screen-
ing the women, gives cycles of oral contraceptives or inserts IUDs. The team,
consisting of the midwife, fieldworker and the local volunteer, is called the
mobile service unit. On subsequent visits, after providing service to new
acceptors, the midwife visits women who are reported as being resistant to
continuing with contraception to persuade them to resume the method or accept
another. As this is an integrated family planning medical care service, the
midwife also attends to minor ailments and provides simple treatment. The
mobile units also carry out community education in health and family planning,
follow up old acceptors and sustain their motivation, provide simple health
care and make the community aware of the broader health and family planning
services that PUSKESMAS can provide.
10.       This experience prompted the Government to provide the mobile
units with the means for more dependable mobility rather than leave them
to the vagaries of rural public transport. Between 1970 and 1973, 94
four-wheel drive vehicles and 1,250 motorcycles were received with USAID
and UNICEF assistance. Initially stationed in Java and Bali, these
were used to transport clinic staff from PUSKESMAS to PUSKESMAS or to MCH



ANNEX 5
Page 4
sub-centres to conduct routine MGH and family planning clinics, as at that
time there was a shortage of paramedical personnel and available persons had
to allocate their time among several centres to achieve more extensive cov-
erage. The deployment of these vehicles did not conform to any fixed pattern,
and they were distributed on an ad hoc basis, generally to PUSKESMAS whose
performance had been good in the expectation that it would become better.
During 1975-76, the fleet was strengthened by the addition of 400 motorcycles
obtained through the joint IDA-UNFPA-GOI project, earmarked specifically to
provide mobility for MOH midwives in Java and Bali. The distribution of the
94 four-wheel drive vehicles and 1,650 motorcycles is given in Table 1. Of
these, 1,405 motorcycles are stationed at PUSKESMAS level. In 1975-76, the
NFPCB subsidized 1,600 mobile service units operated by the MOH in Java and
Bali and 237 in the 10 provinces of the other islands. A subsidy of Rp 2,500
was provided for each operational trip (lasting 3 to 4 days) in Java and Bali
and Rp 5,000 in the other islands. As of October 1976, there were 1,799 MOH
mobile units functioning in Java and Bali and 314 in the other islands. The
ABRI health services have not had transport specifically allocated for mobile
teams.
11.       Mobile services have contributed significantly to the number of new
acceptors recruited to the national family planning program. Service statis-
tics maintained by the MOH for acceptors recruited through its service outlets
indicate that in 1974-75, 49.4% of new acceptors were recruited through the
mobile services in Java and Bali. The figure of 63.5% for the first quarter
of 1976-77 confirms this rising trend (Table 3). The higher percentages in
Central and East Java indicate the comparatively more difficult terrain and
less well-developed static service system than in the remaining provinces of
Java. In the 10 provinces of the other islands, the program has been operat-
ing only since 1974 and has been based primarily on the static centres of the
urban areas up to now. In 1974-75, 26.1% of acceptors were recruited through
MOH mobile services; comparable figures for 1975-76 and the first quarter of
1976-77 are 31.6% and 32.3% respectively.
12.       In September 1976, the NFPCB published the results of a study
which compared the number of new acceptors recruited by 37 clinics with
motorcycles and 87 clinics without in Yogyakarta province over one three-
month period in 1975 and a second period in 1976. The study showed the
clinic performance rose between 1975 and 1976 for both groups but was
significantly higher for the group which had motorcycles. For the 37
clinics, the average number of new acceptors recruited was 91.2 in 1975;
for the 87 clinics, the average was 90.6 in the same period. In 1976,
the 37 clinics were each issued with a motorcycle and their average
performance over a three-month period increased to 140.7 new acceptors;
for the 87 clinics relying on local transportation only, the comparable
figure was 125.6 new acceptors.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
13.       In addition to providing mobility for midwives and PKK at
PUSKESMAS and sub-centre levels, there is also a need to provide a mobile
team at kabupaten headquarters to reach areas beyond the range of the
motorcycle, provide a higher level of services, and support for the
kecamatan-level mobile units. The staff of the kabupaten units comprises
a doctor, supervisory midwife or PKK, NFPCB fieldworker staff and repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Information and Religious Affairs. They
provide complete family planning and MCH services and medical care
including minor surgery, as well as performing basic public health
functions related to communicable diseases, sanitation, etc.
Component Details
14.       Based on its experience thus far and the needs of the national
family planning program to expand to the community level, the GOI has
decided to provide the mobile units at kabupaten and kecamatan levels with
adequate transport. The criteria for determining the number of motorcycles
are:
a.   to supply each PUSKESIIAS without transport one motorcycle;
b.   to supply each PUSKESMAS which covers a large area
and/or population and has more than one midwife, additional
motorcycles; and
c.   to replace those which are becoming unserviceable.
Using these criteria the MOH has determined that it requires 1,378 motor-
cycles, and the ABRI health services that it requires 283, a total of 1,661
motorcycles.
15.       To provide one four-wheel drive vehicle for the use of mobile teams
at the kabupaten (MOH) and DENKES (ABRI) levels, and more than one in kabupatens
with populations over 500,000 people which have the necessary staff, a total
of 274 vehicles will be required. In addition, for the riverine areas of five
of the other island provinces where road transportation is difficult, eight
small boats will be provided. The distribution of transport by province and
operating agency is presented in Table 4.
16.       Each four-wheel drive vehicle and boat will be equipped with one MCH
kit, one IUD kit, one physician's kit, one portable bed, one kerosene stove
and one battery-operated examination lamp. For each midwife or PKK operating
a motorcycle, one IUD mini-kit and one public health nurse's kit will be
provided. In addition, similar kits will be provided for those midwives or
PKKs who have motorcycles (1,405) but who do not have auxiliary kits. The
project costs (detailed in Table 5) include provision for vehicles and equip-
ment as well as maintenance and operating costs for the additional vehicles,



ANNEX 5
Page 6
subsistence and per diem costs for the staff of the additional mobile units.
With the exception of salaries for the drivers of the 274 four-wheel drive
vehicles and eight boats, no other salaries are included as personnel will
be drawn from existing MOH and ABRI health services staff.
17.       The mobile units supported by motorcycles will be part of
kecamatan-level operations. The vehicle and equipment will be assigned
to the PUSKESMAS. In the Armed Forces these will form part of the sub-
regional offices for health elements and will be controlled by the chief
of that office at KODIM in the army and equivalent organizations in the
other services. Manpower for these units in Java and Bali, comprising
a midwife or PKK and a local fieldworker, will be drawn from the PUSKESMAS
or family planning staff; in the other islands, the clinic motivator will
substitute for the fieldworker. The work schedule of the unit will be
decided by a small local committee composed of one PUSKESMAS staff (midwife/
PKK), fieldworkers' group leader (not in the case of other islands), an
official from the sub-district office in the People's Welfare Section and
the information officer of the sub-district.
18.       The mobile units supported by the four-wheel drive vehicles and
boats will be based on a kabupaten health office and will be under the admin-
istrative control of the DOKABU. The chief of the regional office for the
army health elements will supervise and control the working of the mobile
clinic at the KOREM and corresponding levels in the other three branches
of the Armed Forces. The manpower required for the kabupaten mobile unit--
a doctor, a supervisory midwife or a nurse-midwife or a PKK, and an auxiliary
(assistant to midwife)--is available in the kabupaten health office. Where
necessary, the midwife or the PKK of the PUSKESMAS will participate in
mobile service operations. The fieldworker who has jurisdiction over the
area will accompany the mobile team. A driver will be recruited. Deploy-
ment of the kabupaten mobile unit in Java and Bali will be organized by
a kabupaten-level committee comprising the DOKABU, the NFPCB fieldworkers'
supervisor, the doctor of the PUSKESMAS, an official from the People's
Welfare Section of the kabupaten and coordinated by the Chairman of the
kabupaten NFPCB; in the other islands the DOKABU will be the coordinating
authority. The fieldworkers and information personnel will prepare the
area for the visit of the mobile unit.
Monitoring and Supervision
19.       The joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project made provision for the
services of a foreign advisor, recruited with the assistance of UNICEF,
to establish a fleet management and maintenance system. In June 1975,
the NFPCB published guidelines on vehicle maintenance, record keeping,
cost control and operational procedures. These guidelines were made
mandatory in a Decree published by the Chairman of the NFPCB in October
1975. They apply to all vehicles procured by the NFPCB and operated by



ANNEX 5
Page 7
the NFPCB and its implementing units. They do not apply to vehicles obtained
directly from UNICEF or USAID, for example, by the MOH or the ABRI health
services. The Decree requires regular reporting on vehicle operations and
maintenance. To ensure the effective use of vehicles procured for mobile
service use under the proposed project, the NFPCB has reviewed and improved
the reporting regulations. Assurances have been sought that arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank will be made to monitor from time to time the main-
tenance and operation of vehicles provided under the project during the
project implementation period.
20.       All vehicles procured under the project will be owned by the
NFPCB. They will all be identifiable by color, markings and registration
as NFPCB vehicles.



Table  1
INDONESIA II: DISTRIBUTION OF FOUR-WHEEL VEHICLES AND MOTDRCYCLES OBTAINED WITH
USAID, UNICEF AND IDA/UNFPA ASSISTANCE OPERATED BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Kabupaten      Kecamatan      Puskesmas                 Motorcycles                               Four-
Province           and                                          Provincial  Kabupaten  Puskesmas         Total       Wheel
Kotamadya                                       Level       Level         Level                  Vehicles
A.   Java and Bali
Jakarta                      5             27             41              3             5           110          118        6
West Java                   24            383            376               2           24           282          308       20
Central Java                35            492            607              2           35            308          345       22
Yogyakarta                   5             74             84               2            5            88           95        9
East Java                   37            544            407              3            37           372          412       29
Bali                         8             50             42               2            8           114          124        8
Sub-Total                114          1,570          1,557             14          114         1,274         1,402       94
B.   Other Islands
Aceh                        10            129            153               1           10             6           17        -
North Sumatra               17            177            112               1           17            25           43        -
West Sumatra                14             85             87               1           14            11           26        -
South Sumatra               10             86            101               1           10            20           31        -
Lampung                      4             55            136               1            4            13           18        -
West Kalimantan              7            106            106               1            7             6           14        -
South Kalimantan            10             89            126              1            10             9           20        -
North Sulawesi               6             81             93               1            6            10           17        -
South Sulawesi              23            167            239               1           23            25           49        -
West Nusatenggara            6             56             55               1            6             6           13        -
Sub-Total                107          1,031          1,208             10           107           131          248        -
TOTAL                    221          2 601                            24           221         1,405        1,650       94
Source: Ministry of Health.
OQ
DX



Table 2
INDONESIA II: NUMBER OF NEW ACCEPTORS RECRUITED BY ARMED FORCES
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES IN JAVA AND BALI
1975-76
Province                              Contraceptive  Methods                                         Number of New Acceptors
Oral       IUD             Condom          Others           Total            Armed       Civilians
Forces
Jakarta                     4,759       2,650           2,598              535          10,542            7,513           3,029
45.14%    25.14%           24.64%           5.08%              100%          71.27%          28.73%
West Java                   13,931      2,259          6,456             1,037          23,683           15,526           8,157
58.82%      9.54%          27.26%           4.38%              100%         65.56%           34.44%
Central Java                4,722         987           4,090              395          10,194            7,014           3,180
46.32%      9.68%          40.12%           3.88%              100%          68.81%          31.19%
East Java                  11,752       2,919          11,870            1,246          27,787           13,146           14,641
42.29%      10.51%          42.72%           4.48%               100%         47.31%          52.69%
Yogyakarta                      347        113              676              13            1,149             813              336
30.20%      9.84%          58.83%            1.13%             100%          70.76%          29.24%
Bali                           279        267             469               94           1,109              835              274
25.16%    24.08%           42.29%           8.47%              100%          75.29%          24.71%
TOTAL                      35,790       9,195          26,159           3,320           74,464           44,847          29,617
48.06%    12.35%           35.13%            4.46%             100%          60.23%          39.77%
Source:   Armed Forces Health Services--Fpmily Planning Unit.
09U
Uln



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA II: NEW ACCEPTORS RECRUITED THROUGH MOBILE SERVICES AS A PERCENTAGE
OF ALL NON-ACCEPTORS RECRUITED BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Province                     1974-75           1975-76          1976-77L'
Java and Bali
Jakarta                                  28.0             33.6              28.1
West Java                                45.0             63.3              70.9
Central Java                             49.9             70.7              75.1
East Java                                55.6             58.6              47.8
YoRyakarta                               34.3              55.9             55.5
Bali                                     25.3             22.2              15.8
Sub-Total                              49.4              61.1             63.5
Other Islands
Aceh                                     17.3             23.6              73.1
North Sumatra                            27.5             28.8              35.1
West Sumatra                              9.1             21.3              30.6
South Sumatra                            16.9             38.4              37.6
Lampung                                  11.1             33.7              32.5
West Kalimantan                          55.5             17.2              14.8
South Kalimantan                         18.3             23.1              15.4
North Sulawesi                           30.9             30.0              30.5
South Sulawesi                           42.1             45.2              43.1
West Nusatenggara                        11.9             16.7              21.4
Sub-Total                              26.1              31.6              32.3
TOTAL                                  48.1              58.9              60.8
/1   First Quarter: April-June.
Source: Ministry of Health--Family Planning Unit.



ANNEX 5
Page 11
Table 4
INDONESIA II: DISTRIBUTION OF TRANSPORT REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES BY TYPE, OPERATING AGENCY AND PROVINCE
Province                         MOH/1                                      ABRI/2
2-wheel     4-wheel      Boats             2-wheel      4-wheel      Boats
A.  Java and Bali
Jakarta                19            1          -                 28             5        -
West Java             124           25          -                 42            12        -
Central Java          175           29          -                 46             9        -
East Java             147           29          -                 50           12         -
Yogyakarta             15            4          -                  6             3        -
Bali                   18            8          _                  6            4         -
Sub-Total           498            96         _                 178           45         -
B.   Other Islands
Aceh                  123            7          1                  10            7        -
North Sumatra         152            9          2                 20             8        -
West Sumatra           74            8          0                  13            7        -
South Sumatra          66            8          0                 15             7        -
Lampung                22            3          0                  4            3         -
West Kalimantan       100            5          1                   7           4         -
South Kalimantan       80            7          2                  4             6        -
North Sulawesi         71            4          0                  8            6         -
South Sulawesi        142           19          2                 20            6         -
West Nusatenggara      50            6          0                  4             3        -
Sub-Total            880           76          0                135           57         -
TOTAL              137            172          8                283          102         -
/1 MOH = Ministry of Health.
[2ABRI = Armed Forces Health Services.
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 5
Page  12
Table 5
INDONESIA II: MOBILE FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND GOI FISCAL YEAR
(US$ o0os)
Category        1977-78 Li 1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83 L2-Total
Non-Civil Works
Vehicles              144.0    2.290.0    430.0                                     2,864.0
Special Equipment    36.0        577.0    108.0                                       721.0
and Materials
Sub-Total             180.0    2,867.       538.0                                    3,585.0
Incremental Operat-
ing Costs            370.0    1,080.5  2,235.5   2,428.0   2,428.0   1,416.0  9,958.0
Base Cost Estimate   550.0    3,947.5  2,773.5   2,428.0   2,428.0   1,416.0 13,543.0
/1 Start of Project: November 1, 1977.
/2  End of Project  : October 31, 1982.
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 5
Chart   1                                                      Page  13
INDONESIA II: SCHEMATIC PRESENTATION OF THE ORGANIZATION
OF HEALTH SERVICES
Propinsi (Province)                                                                                       Planning,
Provincial health office                             Supervision,
(Inspector of Healthl                               Administration
Kabupaten (Regency)                                                                                       Planning,
Average population 500,000                          Kabupaten health office                               Supervision, and
(Range 300,000 to 1,500,000)                       (DOKTER KABUPATEN)                                     Administration
Regency hospital
_                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUSKIESMAS
Kabupaten                                                                    including                     Administration
hospital                                                                    MCH & P
MD and/or mnidwife
Integrated
preventive & curative
Kecamatan (sub-district)                                                                                  services (institu-
Average population 40,000                                                                                 tional, out-patient and
(Range 30,000 to 55,0001                                 PUSKESMAS                                        domiciliary) and
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~supervision of lower
levels.
Beds                        Out patients                                 MCH i      FP
Clinic and domici-
Kelurahan (Group of villages)                                                                              liary services from
Average size                                            P O S K E S                                       complete MCH clinics
5 to 10 villages                                     (Sub-PUSKESMAS)                                      conducted by
visiting PUSKESMAS
staff
Desa (village)
World Bank-17251



ANNEX 5
Page   14
Chart 2
INDONESIA II: SCHEMATIC PRESENTATION OF THE ORGANIZATION
OF THE ARMED FORCES HEALTH SERVICES
Provincial Head Office
of Armed Forces                      Planning, Supervision.
Medical Services   _                Administration
Provincial Armed Forces                 Provincial Hospital
Health Officer
- Military Area Commander                       I
- Commander of Naval Base                    Regional Head Office
- Commander of the Main                        of Armed Forces
, Air Force Base                          Medical Services (DENKES)                  Regional
-Commander of the Police                     Regional Armed Forces                   (Kabupaten)
District                                         Officer
-Area
Integrated
Medical Services                    preventive and curative
Detachment                        services (institutional,
outpatients and domicili-
(DETKES)                         ary) and supervision of
lower levels.
Out-                                                            imn is-
Patien                                    Mdwife                 tration
Clinic and domiciliary
Sub-Regional                       services from complete
Service Element                     MCH clinics conducted
by visiting PUSKESMAS
staff
World Bank-17250



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA II: FAMILY PLANNING TRAINING
Background
1.        Since 1957, the Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association (IPPA) has
been involved in family planning training. Supported with funds from the
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) 1/ the IPPA sent volunteers
for training abroad and established training centres. In 1968 a National
Training and Research Centre (NTRC) was established in Jakarta and in the
following year six provincial training centres (PTCs) were established in each
of the six provinces of Java and Bali. Since 1971 the IPPA has also operated
three subprovincial training centres (STCs). In addition, medical and para-
medical staff have been trained in family planning at four STCs operated by
the Ministry of Health (MOH). Since the establishment of the NFPCB in 1970,
family planning training activities have been subsidized by the Government.
In FY 1974-75 the NFPCB paid IPPA US$227,000 and in FY 1975-76 US$245,000.
The IPPF subsidy in FY 1975-76 was US$754,000.
2.        Family planning training is an important component of the joint
IDA/UNFPA-assisted project which was signed in April 1972. This component
provided for the construction and support for six PTCs and 10 STCs in Java
and Bali. The Development Credit Agreement (Section 4.04) also provided
for the establishment of a standing committee on family planning training
which would be responsible for recommending to the NFPCB Chairman training
policies and priorities, the apportionment of training responsibilities
and the use for training purposes of the facilities included in the pro-
ject. The committee was established as the National Training Board in
1973. Over the next two years, its main preoccupation was with the
question of responsibility for family planning training in Indonesia.
3.        Early in 1976, the NFPCB decided to assume this responsibility
itself. Although the IPPA-MOH training had been substantial (Table 1),
the NFPCB considered that training was critical to the further develop-
ment of its expanding program and the most important channel by which
national policies could be turned into local action programs. It was
necessary, therefore, to provide better coordination and guidance for
training activities than had hitherto been possible. A review of the
training which had been done brought to light differences in approaches
and biases which had affected the orientation of trainees. The need
for qualitative improvements in standards of staff, work programs, and
facilities called for a greater degree of uniformity and direction than
was possible with the use of the IPPA and MOH as sub-contractors for
training. What was required was a cohesive national training system
which would be responsive to the needs of the national program. This
could be achieved only if the NFPCB itself assumed full control. A
contributing factor to the decision was the phasing out of financial
1/   An international federation of national voluntary family planning
associations.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
support for IPPA's training activities by IPPF to be completed by the end of
1977.  The IPPA's training roie will, therefore, be restricted to training
its own voluntary workers. The NTRC, constructed with funds from the Nether-
lands Government in 1972, will be used to house IPPA staff now accommodated
in offices due for demolition in 1977.
National Family Planning Training System
4.        The NFPCB has prepared a policy document elaborating a national
family planning training system based on the projected needs of the national
program (Annex 4) covering organization, administration, training strategy
and evaluation. Responsibility for carrying out all family planning train-
ing functions will now be held by the NFPCB through its Bureau of Education
and Training. The Bureau will be reorganized to cope with its expanded func-
tions. A Decree (Appendix 1) by the Chairman of the NFPCB authorizing the
reorganization will be promulgated in June; it has been approved by the Gov-
ernment.
5.        The Bureau of Education and Training will be responsible for ini-
tiating policy, coordinating training needs and facilitating training activ-
ities. It will also be responsible for carrying out training at the central
level and for the coordination and supervision of training at provincial
level undertaken by PTCs in each of the 16 provinces covered by the national
program and 10 STCs in West, Central and East Java. Of these, five PTCs
and 10 STCs in Java and Bali have been built, and one PTC in Surabaya will
be completed in April 1978. The Bureau and 10 PTCs in the other islands
remain to be provided with adequate accommodation. The NFPCB is taking
over the IPPA training staff in the PTCs and STCs in Java and Bali as full-
time Government employees. The IPPA will continue to be responsible for
training in the other islands until mid-1979 when the new PTC facilities will
be completed.
The Bureau for Education and Training
6.        The primary functions of the Bureau will include:
a.   planning and preparing the national family planning
training program;
b.   providing technical guidance for the implementation
of training at PTC and STC levels;
c.   conducting training and education courses for
trainers, senior management officials and senior
GOI officials; and
d.   conducting training research and evaluation.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
The Bureau will provide first-class technical leadership for the national
training system in order to train family planning trainers, senior program
managers and key Government officials and community leaders. In order to
ensure the relevance of curricula content to the national program, the main-
tenance of a high training standard and to evaluate training programs, the
Bureau will also conduct program-oriented field research. The Bureau is
headed by a Chief responsible to the NFPCB Chairman. To support the carry-
ing out of the BureauIs expanded functions, 2 deputy directors, 7 section
chiefs, 11 professionals and 25 supporting staff will be recruited.
Other Training Institutions
7.        Under the technical leadership of the Bureau, the PTCs will be
responsible for training and educating family planning staff, Government
officials and community leaders in the provinces. In West, Central and
East Java they will be augmented by the STCs which are responsible for
training peripheral fieldworkers, kecamatan and village-level officials
and community leaders. Each PTC will be headed by a director supported by
a deputy director, administrative coordinator and five trainers. The STCs
are staffed by a director, field training coordinator and five trainers.
The provincial NFPCB chairman will have administrative control of the PTCs
and STCs.
8.        The medium-term plans of the NFPCB (Annex 4) call for the involve-
ment of much larger numbers of persons than now and of a greater variety.
Direct workers and those who endorse and lend public support to the
program, Government officials, the intellectual elite, village leaders,
medical doctors and religious workers all need to be trained or oriented
to fulfill their roles in the program.
9.        Because of ethnic, religious and cultural variations, the com-
plexion of program operations in the provinces of the other islands will
be different from that in Java and Bali. The problem of distances and
communication between provinces requires each province of the other islands
to be as self-sufficient as possible. There are also religious and cultural
differences between certain provinces. For example, although North and
South Sulawesi are contiguous, one is predominantly Christian and the other
Muslim. Linguistically, Bahasa Indonesia is the official language of the
country and is the medium of instruction in all schools and universities;
it is the language used in all Government offices. But, in the remote
areas and with the older, uneducated or semi-educated people, the local
language or dialect is still the communication medium of choice.
10.       In the family planning program these factors are important
determinants of progress. To communicate messages which are delicate
in nature and to persuade people to make significant behavioral changes,
the use of the peoples' dialect with messages based on their customs,



ANNEX 6
e  4
beliefs and sensitivities offers better chances of success. Training of
personnel, especially those who come intc direct contact wit!          -reIinary
people, must be based on local needs, related to local beliefs and customs,
dependent upon the stage of development of the program and should be able
to utilize the local language or dialect. Taking these factors into
consideration and the fact that a province is a reasonably homogeneous
unit, it is necessary to have one training centre in each province.
11.       The present IPPA training centres do not have premises of
their own and operate with part-time staff. Rented buildings (many times
only for the duration of the training course) and part-time staff, whose
main interests are elsewhere, are not conducive to efficient training
operations. In view of the size of the current training task, the need
to place training on a systematic basis and to provide for future develop-
ments, the NFPCB has decided that it is essential to locate a training
centre in each of the provinces of the other islands, housed in a build-
ing especially constructed to meet its needs and staffed by a core of
full-time staff representing the disciplines that contribute to "family
planning".
Training Levels
12.       On the basis of the national family planning program's medium-
term plans, the NFPCB's Bureau of Education and Training has identified
ten major groups of trainees based on their management functions and
responsibilities, technical job functions and responsibilities and
community leadership potential. They comprise:
Group I      :  Community education personnel;
Group II    :   Information personnel at provincial regency and
district levels;
Group III   :  Direct family planning workers;
Group IV    :  Medical/paramedical personnel;
Group V          Trainers and training associates;
Group VI    :  Administrators;
Group VII   :   Government officials of other departments;
Group VIII       Agro-industrial management staff;
Group IX    :   Leaders of voluntary organizations; and
Group X          Parliamentarians, other influential people.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
For each group, job specifications, training objectives and outline curricula
have been prepared. From this information, the training level for each centre
which will be generated by program needs have been estimated. In summary,
the national training level for the period 1977-78 to 1983-84 will be about
217,000 trainees. The Bureau is expected to train some 6,500 people. PTC
training levels (including STCs where applicable) vary from some 41,000 in
Central Java to 5,000 in Lampung. Annual anticipated training loads for the
Bureau and each province are summarized in Table 2. Of the 216,791 potential
trainees, 111,871 are village-level community workers (PPKBD) and Lurahs (vil-
lage headmen) who will be trained outside the training centres at kecamatan
headquarters. The remaining trainees (104,920) will be trained in the var-
ious training centres. In Java and Bali, 57% of the training will be in
the form of refresher courses; all training in the 10 provinces of the other
islands will be initial training. The anticipated training loads (Table 3)
justify the need for the construction of new training centres in the 10
provinces of the other islands. The NFPCB considered renting buildings as
an option to construction but rejected it because suitable accommodation
could not be found and rentals were excessively high. With the exception
of North Sulawesi, the IPPA training centres use rented premises on a course-
by-course basis which cannot be expected of a centre engaged in continuous
training activities with a full-time staff. The building used in North
Sulawesi is small and decrepit; rental costs are high and tenure is uncer-
tain.
Staff Development
13.       A staff development program was instituted in 1973 with support
from the joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project and USAID. By the end of 1976,
15 persons had taken a trainer's course at the University of Connecticut,
USA, and 16 others had received 5-1/2 months training organized by the
National Institute of Family Planning in India. The proposed component
extends this program to ensure that the training system will have the nec-
essary, well-qualified staff. As first priority, staff who have worked
successfully as trainers for IPPA will be offered Government appointments.
Others who have good academic backgrounds will be recruited but will require
orientation towards family planning. For this purpose, a staff development
program is included in the proposed project. It will provide support for
technical and professional training and study tours. Details are given in
Appendix 2.
Research and Evaluation
14.       Research and evaluation with reference to family planning edu-
cation and training will be one of the tasks of the Bureau. Studies will
be conducted to identify the general and specific impacts of training in
terms of program results and outputs. Also included will be studies of the



ANNEX 6
Page 6
behavioral and attitudinal changes among program personnel as they affect
the quality of work performed and the kind of service provided to family
planning clients. Comparative studies of training methodology in terms of
effectiveness and cost analysis of performance of fieldworkers are planned.
Research and evaluation of family planning training programs will be under-
taken by those engaged in teaching and training various categories of family
planning workers in cooperation with the other NFPCB Bureaus concerned and
the peripheral training centres. Research and evaluation will be mainly
program-oriented, and attuned to the need of improving and developing train-
ing as a whole. Studies will also pertain to and relate with family planning
program implementation. Results and findings will be utilized to improve the
quality of training programs and will be funnelled to the implementing units
for application in field operations.
Technical Assistance
15.       The training system will require the assistance of foreign
advisors who will supply expertise in fields not available in Indonesia.
The proposed project provides for 42 man-months of consultancy in family
planning training and training research, management training and curriculum
development. They will be required in 1979 and 1980 at which time the Bureau
will have been fully developed. Terms of Reference for the advisors are given
in Appendix 3.
Component Details
16.       The proposed component responds to the requirements indicated by
a needs analysis of the national family planning training strategy and
covers the needs of the national training program over a five-year period.
It will comprise:
a.   Construction and equipment of facilities for the NFPCB's
Bureau of Education and Training in Jakarta and 10 PTCs
in each of the 10 provinces of the other islands; those in
Lampung, North Sulawesi and vest Nusatenggara of 1,200 m
and the remainder of 1,500 m ;
b.   Provision of special equipment for administrative, training
and audiovisual materials prototype production; as well as
books, journals and films;
c.   Provision of 29 four-wheel drive vehicles, 22 minibuses,
22 motorcycles and 40 bicycles;
d.   Forty two man-months of technical assistance, 24 man-months
of technical training, 108 man-months of professional training,
and 35 man-months of study tours; and



ANNEX 6
Page 7
e.   Incremental operating costs including maintenance of
buildings and vehicles, staff salaries and lecturers,
honoraria, trainee stipends, workshops and seminars,
and operating expenses for field work and evaluation.
17.       The component provides support for the build-up of the national
family planning training system over a five-year period from 1977-78 to
1981-82. The stages of expanding and developing the role of the Bureau of
Education and Training are shown in Table 4. Cost estimates are presented
in Table 5.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Table 1
INDONESIA II: TRAINEES TRAINED BY THE INDONESIAN PLANNED PARENTHOOD
ASSOCIATION IN FAMILY PLANNING BY PROVINCE AND YEAR, 1969-75
Province           1969       197U      l971.      1Y72       1Y/3       1/4/
Java and Bali
Jakarta                    565        662        731        924     1,015        941        660
West Java                   162       384        412        753        898        910       384
Central Java               234        634        698     1,768      1,573      1,053        864
East Java                  487        864        334        562       608        692        591
Yogyakarta                 176        274        400        497       294         94        234
Bali                       210        231        194        460       383        283        329
Sub-Total              1,834      3,049      2,769     4,964      4,771      3,973      3,0
Other Provinces
Aceh                                                                              55         93
North Sumatra                                                                     53        117
West Sumatra                                                                                136
South Sumatra                                     37         77        101        89         98
Lampung                                                                                     133
West Kalimantan                                                                    65        57
South Kalimantan                                  31         60         99         28       169
North Sulawesi                         47         24        239        111        25         93
South Sulawesi                         40                    85         98       176        185
West Nusatenggara                                            53        102          6       133
Sub-Total                            87         92        511       511        497      1,214
TOTAL                  1,834      3,136      2,861      5_475     5_282      4,470      4,276
Source:   National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Table 2
INDONESIA II: SUMMARY OF ANTICIPATED TRAINING LOADS (TRAINEES), 1977-84
Province         1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84           Total
CENTRAL LEVEL           1,335       890       998       694      937       514    1,090       6,458
Sub-Total            1,335       890       998      694       937       514    1,090       6,458
Java and Bali
Jakarta                   951       858      895       760       860       750       870     5,944
West Java               5,267    4,586    5,748    2,818    6,367    3,188    2,792    30,766
Central Java            5,793    5,587    5,877    5,673    6,013    5,720    6,025    40,688
East Java               4,414    4,789    5,548    5,265    5,617    5,268    6,044    36,945
Yogyakarta              1,418       584    1,030       520    1,061        526    1,027       6,166
Bali                      973    1,138    1,471        853       803       973       916     7,127
Sub-Total            18,816        17,542   20,569   15,889   L0j21   16,425   17,674   127,636
Other Provinces
Aceh                    2,470    3,410    1,949    2,355    1,295    1,924           325    13,728
North Sumatra           1,141    1,060    1,586    1,635    1,871    1,785    1,286    10,364
West Sumatra            1,210    1,180    1,155    1,158    1,076    1,046    1,011           7,836
South Sumatra           1,296       962      997    1,225        960       975    1,203       7,618
Lampung                   820       665      705       770       665       605       855     5,085
West Kalimantan         2,085    2,151    1,965    2,121    2,012    2,129    1,932    14,395
South Kalimantan          977       964      865    1,074        861       941       875     6,557
North Sulawesi          1,019       734      858       794       852       763    1,006       6,026
South Sulawesi          1,476       952    1,268       942    1,238        848    1,198       7,922
West Nusatenggara         658       438      465       365       405       375       460      3,166
Sub-Total            13,152   12,516   11,813   12,439   11,235   11,391   10,151    82,697
TOTAL               33.303   30,948   33.380   29.022   32,893   28,330   28,915   216,791
Source:  National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
Table 3
INDONESIA II: ANTICIPATED TRAINING LOADS BY PROVINCIAL FACILITY, 1977-78 TO 1983-84
Province                Facility      Training in Centre      Training in Field    Total
CENTRAL LEVEL            1 Bureau             6,458                         -           6,458
Java and Bali
Jakarta                  1 PTC                5,064                       880           5,944
West Java                1 PTC               15,086                    15,680          30,766
3 STCs
Central Java             1 PTC               16,914                    23,774          40,688
3 STCs
East Java                1 PTC               18,630                    18,315          36,945
4 STCs
Yogyakarta               I PTC                3,070                     3,096           6,166
Bali                     1 PTC                3,071                     4,056            7,127
Sub-Total                                 68,293                    65,801         134,094
Other Provinces
Aceh                     1 PTC                 2,580                   11,148          13,728
North Sumatra            1 PTC                3,190                     7,174          10,364
West Sumatra             1 PTC                3,636                     4,200            7,836
South Sumatra            1 PTC                3,578                     4,040           7,618
Lampung                  1 PTC                2,905                     2,180           5,085
West Kalimantan          1 PTC                4,469                     9,926           14,395
South Kalimantan         1 PTC                5,207                     1,350           6,557
North Sulawesi           1 PTC                3,634                     2,392           6,026
South Sulawesi           1 PTC                4,857                     3,065           7,922
West Nusatenggara        1 PTC                 2,571                      595           3,166
Sub-Total                                 36,627                    46,070          82,697
TOTAL                                       104,920                   111,871         216,791
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



Table 4
INDONESIA II: DEVELOPMENT OF EXPANDED FUNCTIONS OF NFPCB BUREAU OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE BY QVARTERS, 1977-82
Activities                                                    19 77   = =    1'78                 1979               190               1981              1982
I I III  IV   I    I I111I  IV  I  I II II IV    I  I I              IV  I   _  III  IV  I  I   I         IV
Chairman's Decree                                                  _
Recruit Initial Staff
Develop Guidelines for Institutional Relationships
Evolve Administrative Principles and Practices
Initiate Procurement of Vehicles
Prepare Specifications for Equipment
Prepare List of Books and Journals
Initiate Procurement of Books and Equipment
Recruit Deputy Directors and Secretaries
Study Tour of Deputy Directors
Recruit Section Chiefs and Other Professionals
Master's Degree Fellowships
Study Tour of Section Chiefs
Recruit Technicians for Prototype Development
Technicians' Training at IAVRS/1
Planning - Master Plan and Annual Plans
Recruit Balance of Staff
Commissioning of Building
Receipt of Equipment
Commissioning of Equipment
Receipt of Books
Establishment of Library
Technical Assistance
Training of New Trainers
Re-traintng of Existing Trainers
Workshops and Seminars for Trainers                                          __
Refresher Training of Trainers
Training of Other Categortes
Curriculum Review and Development
Supervision of PTC and STC
Documentation Service
Prototype Development
Research
Evaluation of Training                                                                                                      -
Fully Operational                                                       __
, International Audiovisual Resource Service Centre.



ANNIXE   6
Page 12
Table  5 (A)
[NIoNESIA 11:   PROVISION OF FACILIT[ES FOR THE NFPCB' S Bl'REAl' (F
EDICATION AND TRAININI; EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND G(I FISCAL YEAR
(t7SS OOs)
(:ategory        1977-7b-- 1978-79   1979-80   1980-81    1981-82   1982-83  lTotal
ivil W.rks
ois tru. t ioi                     470.0      141.0                                      611.0
Professionil Feos         22.0       22.0       30.0                                       74.0
I2tirnitLire                         64.2       27.8                                       92.0
Site Development         356.0       72.0       47.0                                      475.0
Sub-Trotal              378.0      628.2        l. .252,0
Non-Civil Works
Veiic les                  6.3       64.4         3.3                                      74.0
Special Equipment         12.0      261.3      107.7      42.5        36.8       26.7    487.0
aid Materials
Seminars and              12.5       32.4       42.0      44.4        44.4       24.3    200.0
Workstiops
Surveys and                                      10.0      40.0       40.0       30.0     120.0
Evaluation
Preparation and                                  6.0      30.0        43.0       21.0    100.0
Production of
Training Aids
Fellowships and           16.0       60.0       92.0    100.0         44.0       11.0    323.0
Advisors
Sub-Total                46.8      418.1      261.0    256.9       208.2       113.0  L 304.0
Incremental Operating        178.3      447.2      494.0    542.6       595.7      367.0  2,625.0
Costs
_Base Cost Estimates          603.1   1,493.5   1,000.8       /99.7      bU3.9      48U.0  5,181.0
'1  Start of Project:  November 1, 1977.
'2   End of Project:   Occober 31, 1982.
Sou_rce:   National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 6
Page 13
Table 5 (B)
INDONESIA II: OTHER ISLANDS PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTRES
EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND GOI FISCAL YEAR
(US$ 000s)
Category            1977-741 1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83/2 Total
Civil Works
Construction                50.0   2,254.0       997.0                                     3,301.0
Professional Fees          120.0      120.0      160.0                                       400.0
Furniture                             346.5      148.5                                        495.u
Site Development        1,234.0      512.0       340.0                                     2,086.0
Sub-Total                1.404.0   3,232.5   1.645.5                                       6282.
Non-Civil Works
Vehicles                    10.0      202.0       50.0                                       262.0
Special Eouipment and        1.5       87.0       38.5       8.6        7.3        2.1       145.0
Materials
Sub-Total                   11.5      289,0       88.5       8.6        7.3        2.1       407.0
Incremental Operating
ICosts                      205.4      513.4      565.0    618.2       675.0      416.0    2,993.0
Base Cost Estimate        1,620.9   4.034.9   2.299.0    626.R         682.3      418.1    9,682.0
/1  Start of Project: November 1, 1977.
/2  End of Project:   October 31, 1982.
Source:  National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



Chart  I
INDONESIA II: ORGANIZATION OF THE NFPCB'S
BUREAU OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
| DEPUTY CHAIRMAN 11 FOR                                                          F C B C
PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT 
I
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
BUREAU
DIVISION OF  c                          DIVISION OF             ~~~~~~~~~~~~DIVISION OF    TANN
EDUCATION AND  IVISIO OF        ~DIISIO  OFRESEARCH AND                                          TANN
F P1 TF;AINING|POPULATION EDUCATION                        TRAINING ORGANIZATION        DOCUMENTATION               FACILITY
_|   CURRICULUM AND      CURRICULUM AND    _           2        TEACHING               MONITORING AND
TEACHING SYSTEM          TEACHING SYSTEM                        T                        REPORTING
TEACHING MATERIAL        TEACHING MATERIAL                     FIELD EXERCISE           PUBLICATION AND
INFORMATION
EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY     EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY                  OVERSEAS TRAINING        DOCUMENTATION 'AND
ADMINISTRATION           CLEARING HOUSE
BUREAU ADMINIS             ~~~PROVINCIAL N F P C B
BUREAU ADMINISTRATIONCHAIRMAN
PROVINCIAL
TRAINING CENTRES                                                                                       >
SUB-PROVINCIAL
TRAINING
CENTRES
World Bank-17500



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COORDINATING BOARD
CHAIRMAN'S DECREE
NO.
ON THE REORGANIZATION OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NFPCB,
Considering:   that in line with the expansion of the jobs and
responsibilities in the family planning education
and training program a reorganization is required
in the organizational structure of the Bureau of
Education and Training of the NFPCB.
In view of:    1.  Presidential Decree No. 33/1972;
2. Presidential Decree No. 44/1974;
3. Presidential Decree No. 45/1974;
4. NFPCB Chairman Decree No. 350/Kpts/BKKBN/IX/1973; and
5. NFPCB Chairman Decree No. 360/Kpts/BKKBN/XII/1974.
With respect to:  The approval of the Minister of State for Adminis-
trative Reform expressed in his letter No.B-510/I/MENPAN/
4/77 dated April 29, 1977.
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COORDINATING BOARD DECREES
to sanction: THE DECISION OF THE NFPCB CHAIRMAN ON THE REORGANIZATION
OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION
AND TRAINING.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
CHAPTER I
THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
PART I
STATUS, TASKS AND FUNCTION
Article 1
1.        The Bureau of Education and Training is a functional unit in the
management of the education and training system at the NFPCB subordinate to
the Deputy Chairman for Program Development (Deputy II) and reporting to
him.
2.        The Bureau of Education and Training is headed by a Bureau Chief.
Article 2
The Bureau of Education and Training will organize, promote and co-
ordinate the entire family planning education and training program based upon
the rules regulations and policies decreed by the NFPCB Chairman.
Article 3
For accomplishing the tasks mentioned in Article 2 the Bureau of
Education and Training will perform the following functions:
a.   prepare draft policy for the family planning and population
education and training program policy;
b.   promote family planning and population education and training;
c.   promote the implementation of the family planning and popula-
tion education training systems;
d.   organize the family planning and population education and
training programs; and
e.   organize research and evaluation in fields related to family
planning and population education and training systems.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
PART II
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Article 4
The Bureau of Education and Training will consist of:
a.   Division of Family Planning Education and Training;
b.   Division of Population Education;
c.   Division of Organization; and
d.   Division of Research and Documentation.
Article 5
The Division of Family Planning Education and Training will
plan, develop and promote curricula for all categories of personnel
including the use of new teaching methods and materials in educational
technology.
Article 6
For fulfillment of the tasks mentioned under Article 5 the
Family Planning Education and Training Division will perform the following
functions:
a.   plan, develop and promote curricula and teaching system
for all categories of personnel in the family planning
program;
b.   plan, develop and promote teaching materials for all
categories of personnel in the family planning education
program; and
c.   promote and meet the needs of audiovisual aids and other
teaching materials of the family planning education technology
for all categories of personnel.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX I
Page 4
Article 7
The Family Planning Education and Training Division will
consist of:
a.   Sub-division of Curricula and Teaching System;
b.   Sub-division of Teaching lIaterials; and
c.   Sub-division of Educational Technology.
Article 8
1.        The Sub-division of Curricula and Teaching Systems will develop
curricula and teaching system for all categories of family planning educa-
tion and training category;
2.        The Sub-division of Teaching Mlaterials will develop education
and training materials for every category of family planning education
and training; and
3.        The Sub-division for Educational Technology will prepare and
meet the needs for audiovisual aids and other teaching materials of
family planning education and training activities.
Article 9
The Population Education Division will plan, develop and
promote the education and training curriculum, covering the development
of curricula and teaching systems, the promotion of teaching materials
and technology in population education.
Article 10
For fulfillment of the tasks mentioned under Article 9 the
Population Education Division will perform the following functions:
a.   plan, develop and promote curricula and teaching system
for all categories of personnel in the population educa-
tion sector;



A1INEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 5
b.   plan, develop and promote teaching material for all
categories of personnel in the population education
sector; and
c.   promote and meet the requirements of the population
education program for all categories of personnel.
Article 11
The Population Education Division will consist of:
a.   Sub-division of Curricula and Teaching System;
b.   Sub-division of Teaching Materials; and
c.   Sub-division of Education Technology.
Article 12
1.        The Sub-division of Curricula and Teaching Systems will develop
curricula and teaching systems for all categories of population education
personnel;
2.        The Sub-division of Teaching Materials will develop education and
training materials for all categories population education personnel; and
3.        The Sub-division for Educational Technology will prepare and
meet the needs for audiovisual aids and other teaching materials of the
population education program.
Article 13
The Organization Division will plan, direct and organize activi-
ties of the family planning education and training and the population
education sectors.
Article 14
For fulfillment of the tasks mentioned under Article 13 the
Organization Division will perform the following functions:



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 6
a.   develop a plan for the implementation of the family
planning education and training and population educa-
tion programs;
b.   provide and organize the teaching staff and participants
in the education and training programs of the family
planning and population education sectors;
c.   organize field exercises in the family planning and
population education programs; and
d.   develop and process plans for overseas education and
training of family planning education and population
education workers.
Article 15
The Organization Division consists of:
a.   Sub-division of Teaching;
b.   Sub-division of Field Exercise; and
c.   Sub-division of Overseas Training Administration.
Article 16
1.        The Sub-division of Teaching will plan and organize the family
planning training and population education activities;
2.        The Sub-division of Field Exercise will plan and organize field
exercises for family planning training and population education programs;
and
3.        The Sub-division for Overseas Training Administration will
develop plans and arrange for the overseas training of family planning
training and population education personnel.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 7
Article 17
The Research and Documentation Division will plan, organize
and promote research, evaluation and documentation activities in the
family planning education and population education sectors.
Article 18
For performing the tasks mentioned under Article 17 the
Research and Documentation Division will have the following functions:
a.   plan and organize research and evaluation and report-
ing and documentation of the family planning training
and population education programs;
b.   organize the collection of information on the family
planning training and population education programs
and its presentation;
c.   promote the documentation of and develop a library for
family planning education and training and population
education program; and
d.   assist in the administration of the Bureau.
Article 19
The Research and Documentation Division will consist of:
a.   Sub-division of Monitoring and Reporting;
b.   Sub-division of Publication and Information;
c.   Sub-division of Documentation and Clearing House; and
d.   Sub-division of Bureau Administration.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 8
Article 20
1.        The Sub-division of Monitoring and Reporting will plan,
organize, and prepare reports on family planning education and
training and population education research and evaluation;
2.        The Sub-division of Publication and Information will
organize the collection and presentation of information on family
planning training and population education activities;
3.        The Sub-division of Documentation and Clearing House will
organize and conduct the documentation and clearing house program of
the Bureau; and
4.        The Sub-division of Bureau Administration will assist in the
administration of the Bureau of Education and Training.
Article 21
When deemed necessary an installation (building and other
physical facilities) may be established as needed for a technical support-
ing institute within the Bureau of Education and Training sanctioned by
Decree of the NFPCB Chairman, prior to which a written approval is required
from the Minister responsible for the order and promotion of the State's
apparatus.
CHAPTER II
FAMILY PLANNING TRAINING CENTRES
PART III
STATUS, TASKS AND FUNCTIONS
Article 22
1.        Family Planning Training Centres in the provinces hereinafter
referred to as Training Centres, are technical implementing units in the
family planning education and training and population education sector sub-
ordinate and responsible to the Education and Training Bureau Chief;



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 9
2.        Training in family planning and population education in
Training Centres will be coordinated by the provincial NFPCB Chairman;
and
3.        The Training Centres will be headed by a Director.
Article 23
The Training Centre will perform the following tasks:
a.   prepare plans for the implementation of the training
programs in the province;
b.   organize training programs in the province; and
c.   submit reports on training activities in the province.
PART IV
ORGANIZATIONAL SET-UP
Article 24
The Training Centre will consist of:
a.   Director
b.   A Sub-division Chief for Administration; and
c.   Instructors.
Article 25
The Training Centre Director will administer and direct the
Centre's activities in line with its tasks.
Article 26
The Sub-division for administration will be responsible for
administration, personnel and financial management and housekeeping
functions.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 10
Article 27
The Sub-division of Administration will consist of:
a.   General affairs; and
b.   Housekeeping.
Article 28
1.        The General Affairs Section will be in-charge of personnel and
financial administration, and the Centre's correspondence; and
2.        The Internal Affairs Section  will be in-charge of the mainte-
nance of equipment and instruments and general housekeeping.
Article 29
Instructors will prepare and provide guidance in the education
and training activities in conforming with the determined policy.
Article 30
The maximum number of instructors at every Centre will be five.
PART V
LOCATION OF CENTRES
Article 31
The Training Centres in the province are/will be located in
the following places:
a.   Jakarta               Jakarta
b.   West Java             Bandung
Bogor
Garut
Cirebon



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 11
c.   Central Java               Semarang
Ambarawa
Pati
Banyumas
d.   Yogyakarta                 Yogyakarta
e.   East Java                  Surabaya
Madiun
Blitar
Malang
Jember
f.   Bali                       Denpasar
g.   Aceh                       Kutaraja
h.   North Sumatra              Medan
i.   West Sumatra               Padang
j.   South Sumatra              Palembang
k.   Lampung                    Tanjung Karang
1.   West Kalimantan            Pontianak
m.   South Kalimantan           Banjarmasin
n.   North Sulawesi             Menado
o.   South Sulawesi             Ujung Pandang
p.   West Nusatenggara          Mataram
CHAPTER III
WORK PROCEDURES
Article 32
In performing their duties the Eudcation and Training Bureau Chief
and the Training Centre Directors should adopt the principles of coordination,
integration and synchronization within their respective areas as well as
between the organizational units within the NFPCB and other institution.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX I
Page 12
Article 33
Heads of all organizational units within the NFPCB and the
Training Centres will direct their subordinates coordinate their work
and provide them with guidance and advice in the performance of their
duties.
Article 34
The Head of an organizational unit will respect his superior's
instruction and submit periodical reports on time.
Article 35
Every report submitted by the subordinates must be processed
and used by the superiors as material for further reporting and instruc-
tions.
Article 36
Copies of reports must be submitted to other relevant units in
the organization.
Article 37
In the execution of his tasks the head of every organizational
unit will be assisted by the unit heads subordinate to him; he will hold
periodical staff meetings.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 1
Page 13
CHAPTER IV
OTHER STIPULATIONS
Article 38
The education and training programs supervised by the Education
and Training Bureau and the Training Centres will be conducted by the family
planning implementation units and other qualified institutions or experts
considered necessary.
CHAPTER V
CONCLUSIVE STIPULATIONS
Article 39
Any deviation from the organizational structure and work procedures
stated in this Decree will be determined by the NFPCB Chairman, for which
prior written approval will be sought from the Minister of State for Adminis-
trative Order of the State's Apparatus.
Article 40
1.        By the effectiveness of this Decree the stipulations of Article 4,
point 3.2 of the NFPCB Chairman Decree No. 350/Kpts/BKKBN/IX/73 and Article 5
of the NFPCB Chairman Decree No. 360/Kpts/BKKBN/XII/74 respectively on the
organizational structure, tasks and work procedures of the NFPCB and on the
job description and organizational set-up of the Sub-divisions within the
NFPCB are declared invalid.
2.        This Decree will be effective from the date of authorization.
Authorized in:    JAKARTA
Date:              May 2, 1977
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COORDINATING BOARD
Signed,
Suwardjono Surjaningrat, M.D.
Chairman



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA II: DETAILS OF THE STAFF DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.        Whilst attempts will be made to recruit the most adequately quali-
fied persons for the different positions and explore the most likely sources
to obtain them, given the paucity of subject specialists with a specific
family planning/population orientation, it is possible that the NFPCB will
have to be satisfied with persons academically well-trained but who will need
strengthening in the application of their disciplines to the family planning
program. To provide for such an eventuality, a staff development program has
been included in the national training systems plans and the proposed project.
2.        Three kinds of fellowships are included in the staff develop-
ment plan. They are:
a.   Study tours of short duration for senior staff of the
NFPCB's Bureau of Education and Training;
b.   Technical training for technical staff for the develop-
ment of audiovisual prototype materials; and
c.   Post-graduate professional/academic training.
3.        The first kind is provided for the senior and middle-level staff
to familiarize themselves with the management and operations of a family
planning training facility of national stature. The senior training staff
are expected to be senior in age, adequately qualified and have a sufficient
degree of experience, so that a relatively short exposure to on-going insti-
tutions will prepare them for their new responsibilities. Among the middle-
level staff, the chiefs of the section of documentation and of the section
of prototype development will each be awarded six months' travel grants to
observe and study similar units in family planning training establishments.
4.        The second kind of fellowship is designed for the development of
specific technical skills in a group of trained persons to man and operate
the section of the Bureau which will develop audiovisual prototype material.
5.        The third kind of fellowship provides for the eventuality when
persons with the precise academic qualifications and professional experience
required for the Bureau are not available. This has long-term implications
in developing a sound and enduring professional base for the family plan-
ning training system and is directed mainly at the third and fourth levels--
section chiefs and other professionals in the sections--of the Bureau's
structure, young persons of promise, well qualified in specific disciplines
who, with appropriate post-graduate training, will strengthen its technical
expertise. Six fellowships for master's degree programs are included. Based
on what are considered essential areas of the training system which require
specific and high-level expertise, it is proposed to earmark the fellowships
as follows:



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 2
Page 2
a.   Education with emphasis on training of trainers;
b.   Sociology with a communications orientation;
c.   Management with emphasis on family planning administration;
d.   Research methodology;
e.   Maternal and child health and family planning; and
f.   Education with emphasis on curriculum development.
6.        The details of the program are:
a.   Study tours/attachment to institutions
Study tours of three to six
months' duration               - 35 man-months
b.   Technician's Training
Four months' training as a team at IAVRS 1/,
Manila - 24 man-months
Photographer                      -  1
Artist                            -  1
Script Writer                    -  1
Exhibit Mechanic                  -  1
Video Technician                  -  1
Recording Technician              -  I
1/   International Audiovisual Resource Service Centre.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA II: TERMS OF REFERENCE AND PHASING OF TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE FOR FAMILY PLANNING TRAINING
A.   Terms of Reference
1.   Training Consultant (12 man-months)
Qualification:  Master's Degree in Education, Social Sciences,
Communications or Public Health majoring in
Health Education.
Experience       Organizing and managing training centres.
Also in training of family planning and/or
health personnel.
2.   Management Training Consultant (6 man-months)
Qualification: Master's Degree in Management.
Experience   : As a trainer in management especially in
the context of developing countries. Ex-
perience in public administration.
3.   Curriculum Development Consultant (12 man-months)
Qualification:  Master's Degree in Education and additional
qualification as Education Psychologist
preferred.
Experience   : At least five years' experience in curriculum
development.
4.   Research Consultant (12 man-months)
Qualification:  Master's Degree in any one of the Social
Sciences with special training in Research
Methodology.
Experience:      Training experience in research methodology
and field research in family planning.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX 3
Page 2
B.  Phasing
Category               1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84  Total
Training Consultant              6        6          -        -        -        12
Management Training Consultant  6          -         -        -        -         6
Curriculum Development           6         6         -        -        -        12
Consultant
Research Consultant              6         6         -        -        -        12



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA II: FAMILY PLANNING AND POPULATION CENTRES
1.        At its inception in 1970 the national family planning program
was restricted to Java and Bali and extended to the selected provinces in
the other islands in April 1974. It now covers five provinces in Sumatra--
Aceh, North, South and West Sumatra, and Lampung--and the provinces of
West and South Kalimantan, North and South Sulawesi and West Nusateng-
gara. Before the Government program was extended to the other islands,
the Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association (IPPA) had been conducting
a family planning program in these provinces which included clinics,
and the provision of information, education and training. In fact,
when the Government launched its program in Java and Bali the IPPA
diverted much of its efforts to the other islands to strengthen pro-
gram activities there. To support program operations, the IPPA set up
in each of these provinces, at different points in time, what were
originally called training-communications stations and later became
regional training centres (RTCs). When the national program was intro-
duced into these provinces the IPPA undertook to train in its RTC the
manpower required for the program.
2.        Basic data concerning these provinces are presented in Table 1.
A population projection for each of these provinces over the next five
years is provided in Table 2. An organization similar to that obtaining
in the provinces of Java and Bali is being developed in each of the new
provinces. Program activities have increased steadily since 1974 and
some indicators of the progress made are shown in Table 3. For the
future, the target of new acceptors over the next seven years in the
10 provinces of the other islands will increase from 242,000 in 1977-78
to over 1 million in 1983-84 (Table 4). This means that the scope of the
program will increase and its tempo accelerate.
3.        The NFPCB has made a major change in operational strategy
since the program was extended to the islands. Program personnel from
the other islands participated in the national workshop held early in
1976 which discussed and recommended the new strategy, and fully sub-
scribed to the changes that were being evolved. The new strategy will
be the basis of program operations in the other islands too. It calls
for ensuring that the concepts of family planning and the small family
norm become part of the value system of the Indonesian people. This
will be achieved through harnessing the support of all Government
agencies and obtaining the cooperation and involvement of the community
and its institutions. With an extensive information, education and
communications program and widely dispersed services as its main thrusts,
the program will require a sound and efficient managment, a well-organized
training program, and continuing evaluation and action research as major
supporting elements.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        In view of the very encouraging performance of the program in
its first two years and the targets set for it in the next seven years,
program management needs considerable strengthening. Funds are available
to provide the manpower required but the construction of buildings to
house the provincial NFPCB offices poses a financial problem. Since there
is considerable interdependence between the management and training units
of the organization, it is now proposed to develop these together and to
locate them on the same site so as to promote better communication between
them and facilitate mutual consultations. This entity will be called the
Provincial Family Planning and Population Centre.
5.        When the program was launched in these provinces adequate accommo-
dation was not available to house the provincial NFPCB office. Morever, at
that time, there were only eight staff members in each office. Staff was,
therefore, accommodated in whatever space was available in the capital cities
of the 10 provinces. This has resulted in a variety of locations for the 10
offices. Table 5 provides information on the status of these buildings,
adequacy of accommodation, tenure, working environment and other aspects.
Except in the case of South Sumatra, inadequacy of work space is a common
complaint in all the provinces. This has affected the strengthening of
program management. Table 6 shows the growth in the number of staff members
in each of the provincial offices during the three years the program has been
in operation. Except in the case of West Kalimantan, it has not been possible
to recruit the full complement of staff sanctioned for 1976-77 mainly because
of the lack of office space. As it is, these offices are overcrowded which,
certainly, does not promote efficiency and, at this stage, any addition of new
staff members without a proportionate increase in work space can only be
counter-productive. If the new strategy is to be implemented and become fully
operational in terms of a vastly expanded range of activities involving other
Government departments, voluntary organizations and the community itself, it
is imperative to appoint expeditiously the full strength of multi-disciplinary
staff which has been approved and financed (Table 7). Governors of some
of these provinces have been urging the Chairman of the Central NFPCB to
improve the image of the national program's representation at provincial
level by speedily constructing office buildings and have gone to the extent
of offering land free of cost for the purpose.
6.        A population information network system which is being developed
by the Central NFPCB throughout the country aims to provide information of
a topical nature on the subject to program personnel and to the general
public both official and non-official. Its provincial base will be the
NFPCB office with a population information centre open to anyone who is
seeking information. It will organize workshops and seminars for an
exchange of information at the provincial level to function as a link
between information available in the data system and action programs. A
mass-mailing scheme emanating from this centre will reach thousands of
people in each province with audience-specific information.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
7.        Providing adequate accommodation for these functions and staff
has become an urgent need for the NFPCB. What is required is an adequate
office building in a good location. Renting better office accommodation
has been considered by the NFPCB but rejected because of the unsuitability
of what little office space is available and because of the high rents
required. Schedules of accommodation for the proposed new buildings are
provided in Annex 13.
8.        The provincial family planning and population centre will become
the focal point for all matters concerning population in the province. It
will comprise the administrative office of the provincial NFPCB, the provin-
cial training centre and the population information centre for the province.
This will be an important combination and, being in one location, will portray
the family planning organization as a unified, well-knit and integrated
entity. As the technical arm of the program with a built-in research poten-
tial, the training centre will be able to provide technical advice to the
administrative unit and help carry out studies quickly on problems that the
provincial program might be facing. It will profit the training centre by
making available on-the-spot administrative and technical consultation with
the individual specialists working in the TFPCB. Proximity will certainly
facilitate the frequency and quality of mutual consultations.
9.        As the training centre will be under the administrative control
of the Chairman of the provincial NFPCB, this arrangement will facilitate
supervision and inspection.
10.       Being grouped together will also facilitate the sharing of certain
facilities. The staff of the provincial office will have the resource of a
modern, well-equipped library and of a documentation service emanating from
the NFPCB's Bureau of Education and Training. The latter will provide up-
to-date technical information on developments within and outside Indonesia.
Directed towards trainers and the training program, it will cover a wide range
of professional interests and will thus help program officials to keep abreast
of new developments. Audiovisual facilities at the training centre will also
be shared. This will be particularly useful in the public information func-
tions of the NFPCB.   The administrative office in turn will be able to pro-
vide certain common services such as reproduction of documents, maintenance
of buildings, repairs, custodial and other house-keeping services. These
arrangements will not only promote better cooperation between the administra-
tive office and the training centre, but also result in considerable savings.
Cost estimates of the administrative offices in this conplex are presented
in Table 8.



Table I
INDONESIA II: BASIC DATA ON THE TEN PROVINCES OF THE OTHER ISLANDS
Provinces            Area in       Estimated Popula-   Population                         Number  of
Km.2        tion in 1976         Density per   Kabupaten    Kotamadya          Kecamatan      PUSKESMAS
(OOOs)            Km.Z         (Regency)  (Municipality)  (Sub-District)  (Public
Health
Centre)
OTHER ISLANDS
Aceh                      59,814            2,319                39              8             2                 129           153
North Sumatra             70,804            7,646               107             11             6                177            112
West Sumatra              66,080             3,225               49              8             6                  85            87
South Sumatra            103,268            3,970                38              8             2                  86           101
Lampung                   33,892            3,220                95              3             1                  55           136
West Kalimantan          157,066             2,305               15              6             1                 106           106
South Kalimantan          34,611             1,939               56              9             1                  89           126
North Sulawesi            24,289            1,963                81              4             2                  81            93
South Sulawesi            82,768            5,916                71             21             2                 167           239
West Nusatenggara         21,740             2,499              115              6             0                  56            55
TOTAL                    654,332           35,002               53             84             23              1.031         1,208
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.
Is.
-J



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Table 2
INDONESIA II: POPULATION PROJECTIONS FOR THE
TEN PROVINCES OF THE OTHER ISLANDS, 1976-81
(000s)
Provinces                1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   1981-82
OTHER ISLANDS
Aceh                          2,319      2,386     2,457      2,530     2,605      2,683
North Sumatra                 7,646      7,869     8,100      8,341     8,590      8,848
West Sumatra                  3,225      3,319     3,416      3,517     3,623      3,732
South Sumatra                 3,970     4,086      4,206      4,331     4,460      4,594
Lampung                       3,220     3,314      3,411      3,512     3,617      3,726
West Kalimantan               2,305      2,365     2,428      2,493     2,559      2,628
South Kalimantan              1,939     1,990      2,042      2,097     2,153      2,211
North Sulawesi                1,963     2,014      2,067      2,121     2,177      2,235
South Sulawesi                5,916     6,071      6,230      6,394     6,563      6,737
West Nusatenggara             2,499      2,561     2,624      2,723     2,756      2,826
TOTAL                       35,002    35,975    36,981    38.059    39,103    40,220
Source:  National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



Table 3
INDONESIA II: INDICATORS OF PROGRESS OF THE FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAMS
IN THE TEN PROVINCES OF THE OTHER ISLANDS, 1974-77
New Acceptor Targeb and Achievement
Provinces              Number of Clinics                                     1974-75                          1975-76                        1976-77
Nov.   Mar.   Mar.   Mar.                  Target   New         Percentage  Target   New          Percentage  Target   New          Percentage
1974   1975   1976   1977                           Acceptors                         Acceptors                         Acceptors
OTHER ISLANDS
Aceh                     36     44      54    69                   6,000    6,738        142.30      11,000   10,038       91.3        16,000   11,647        72.8
North Sumatra            76    129    147   184                   20,000   26,360        131.34      30,000   40,334      134.4        46,000    56,577      123.0
West Sumatra             32     47      80   109                   8,000    7,848         98.10      12,000   13,501      112.5        18,000    18,967      105.4
South Sumatra            52     63      82   100                  15,000   13,964         93.09      22,000   17,107       77.8        27,000    20,549       78.1
Lampung                  34     34      42    67                  10,000    9,196         91.96      15,000   14,575       97.2        22,000    21,431       97.4
West Kalimantan          17     17      33    38                   5,000    6,550        131.00       7,000    7,910      133.0        12,000    10,346       86.2
South Kalimantan         21     22      31    50                   5,000    5,602        112.04       7,500   10,113      134.8        12,000    13,743      114.5
North Sulawesi           35     72      99   102                   5,000   13,302        266.04       7,500   24,141      321.9        14,000    28,812      205.8
South Sulawesi           67     68      90   106                  20,000   21,783        108.92      30,000   36,024      120.1        35,000   36,057       103.0
West Nusatenggara        40     40      40    76                   6,000    6,524        108.73       9,000    6,934       77.0        18,000    15,216       84.5
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.
oQ 1



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Table 4
INDONESIA II: ACCEPTOR TARGETS FROM 1977-78 TO 1983-84 AND EXPECTED
FERTILITY RATES FOR THE TEN PROVINCES OF THE OTHER ISLANDS/L
Year             Number of Acceptors  (000s)           MWRA       Total        Prevalence  Birth
Contraceptive Methods          (OOOs)      FertiAity       (M)       Rate r3
Oral     IUD      Condom    Total                   Rate-2
1977-78       145      41        56          242      5,291       5.68           6.3        43.6
1978-79       244      72       106         422       5,439       5.57           8.5        42.7
1979-80       290      93       135         518       5,594       5.43          11.4        41.6
1980-81       346    115        180         641       5,752       5.28          14.4        40.5
1981-82       405    135        210         750       5,914       5.13          17.5        39.3
1982-83       454    166        253         873       6,080       4.98          20.5        38.2
1983-84       502    201        300       1,003       6,250       4.83          23.5        37.0
/1  Basis Qo  estimation is woman-years protection.  First-year continuation rate  used
was 60%.  Effective protection after allowing for accidental pregnancies assumed to
be 83% of woman-years of protection.
/2 Total Fertility Rate - Base 6.0.
/3  Birth Rate - Base 46.0,
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Table 5
INDONESIA II: STATUS OF BUILDINGS AND QUALITY OF WORK SPACE
IN THE PROVINCIAL NFPCB OFFICES OF THE OTHER ISLANDS
Other Islands                        Status of Buildings and Quality of Work Space
Aceh                          Rented from the railway authority, space inadequate,
crowded, old wooden building, not impressive.
North Sumatra                 Temporarily housed in the Governor's Office, space
inadequate (two rooms each 25 sq. metres), over
crowded, busy and noisy.
West Sumatra                  As in North Sumatra.
South Sumatra                 Located in the Office of the Department of Health,
space adequate for present purposes, but temporary
and has to be vacated soon.
Lampung                      Located in the Governor's official residence, very
temporary and has to be vacated soon, space inadequate.
West Kalimantan               Temporarily housed in the Governor's Office, space
inadequate, overcrowded, not conducive to efficient
working.
South Kalimantan             Rented in private house, space inadequate, over-
crowded, poor working environment.
North Sulawesi               Rented in same building as tourist office, very noisy
because of frequent visitors to tourist office, space
inadequate.
South Sulawesi                Rented in private house, condition of building poor,
space inadequate, overcrowded, no parking space.
West Nusatenggara             Temporarily housed in the Office of the Department of
Health, space inadequate, overcrowded.
Source: National Family Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Table 6
INDONESIA II: STAFFING OF NFPCB OFFICES IN THE TEN PROVINCES OF THE OTHER ISLANDS
Provinces             1974               1975                     1976             Ultimately
In Position Approved In Position Approved In Position Approvedl
OTHER ISLANDS
Aceh                     8           16           9           21           17          42
North Sumatra            8           16          12           21           16          42
West Sumatra             8           16          16           21           17          42
South Sumatra            8           16           8           21           14          42
Lampung                  8           16           7           21           16          42
West Kalimantan          8           16          16           21           22          42
South Kalimantan         8           16          16           21           20          42
North Sulawesi           8           16          19           21           19          42
South Sulawesi           8           16          19           21           19          42
West Nusatenggara        8           16           9           21           15          42
/1   "Ultimately" does not indicate a distant time target; the full complement of staff
has been approved and will be appointed as soon as work space becomes available.
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
Table 7
INDONESIA II: APPROVED STAFF STRENGTH OF PROVINCIAL NFPCB OFFICES
Staff                                Number
Chairman                              1
Secretary                             1
Division Chiefs and
Project Leaders                      7
Sub-Division Chiefs,
Treasurer and Project
Treasurers                          14
Typists and Supporting
Staff                               19
TOTAL                             42
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
Table 8
INDONESIA II: OTHER ISLANDS PROVINCIAL OFFICES
EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND GOI FISCAL YEAR
(US$ 000s)
Category          1977-78/- 1978-79   1979-80   198(0-81   1981-82   1982-83/2 Total
Civil Works
Construction                27.0    1,141.0   312.0                                      1,480.0
Professional Fees           54.0        54.0    72.0                                       180.0
Furniture                              155.0    67.0                                       222.0
Site Development          783.0       348.0   231.0                                     1,362.0
Sub-Total                    864.0    1.698.0   682.0                                      3,244.0
Non-Civil Works
Special Equipment             36.0       144.0   108.0                                       288.0
and Materials
Incremental Operating        209.2       522.8   575.0      632.0      694.0      427.0   3,060.0
Cost
Base Cost Estimate         1,109.2    2,364.8  1,365.0      632.0      694.0      427.0   6,592.0
/1  Start of Project:  November 1, 1977.
/2  End of Project:    October 31, 1982.
Source:   National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA II: POPULATION EDUCATION
1.        The population education component of the joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted
project has been operational for three years. Its objectives were limited to
testing the implications of introducing population education into school
curricula and into out-of-school and community education programs. Its
implementation was the joint responsibility of the NFPCB and the Department
of Education and Culture of the Ministry of Education. The component sup-
ported the Ministry's National Population Education Project. The wider
objectives of this project were to develop in teachers and students:
a.   an understanding of factors causing rapid population
growth and the close relationship between that growth
and development programs;
b.   rational and responsible attitudes towards population
matters both at macro and micro levels;
C.   competencies to examine critically population issues
and make decisions accordingly; and
d.   an understanding of and a positive attitude towards the
country's population policies and programs.
2.        In 1975, a Decree was issued by the Minister of Education which
called for a gradual replacement of the existing school curricula by new
curricula and at the same time a policy decision was made that "population
education should be integrated in all relevant fields of study". These
two decisions meant that population education could be integrated into the
existing educational system as part of the total curricula change envisaged.
This integration would be worked out at primary, secondary and teacher
education levels. Non-formal education centres as well as technical and
vocational schools would be included in the program.
3.        In August 1976, a ministrial Decree was made allowing the introduc-
tion of population education in secondary school teacher training institutes.
4.        A joint committee was set up which comprised representatives
of the NFPCB, the Ministry of Education and the National Development
and Planning Agency (BAPPENAS). This committee modified the plan of
operations for the remaining period of the first project and developed
a new plan to suit the needs created by the decision to institutionalize
population education.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        The first three years of the joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project
were spent in investigating the various implications of introducing popu-
lation education into the curricula of both in-school and out-of-school
programs and the preparation of instructional materiala was undertaken.
The subjects chosen for integration were home economics, civics, geography,
biology and religion. Two secondary school grades (8 and 11) were selected.
Training cour2es were conducced for administrators, teachers and instructors
from the pilot project schools and from the selected nan-formal education
centres.  During this period the following personnel were trained:
a.   70 educational administrators;
b.   360 teachers of civics, home economics, religion,
geography and biology from 60 pilot project schools; and
c.   120 instr-uctors from 30 non-formal centres.
There was also an intensive five-week course for 25 key personnel from
provincial education offices in the six provinces of Java and Bali.
6.        After this preparatory period, population education was intro-
duced into the schools in the pilot areas. Periodic evaluation was carried
out on a comprehensive basis and a consolidated report was made. It showed
that the introduction of population education into the existing educational
system of the country was feasible and that the innovatioa was well received
by teachers, pupils and the community. It also showed that there were not
enough teaching materials available and that there should be a greater
varlety of them. Integration into two additional subjects --Bahasa Indonesia
and economics--was also required.
_Dbjeetives
7e        The GOI now i.ntends to assimilate completely population education
isto both in-school and non-formal sectors and that, after this has been
done, the subject will become part of the normal educational programs of
the M.inistry of Education. The last period of the first project is not
only concerned fwith completing the pilot project work but is also preparing
the way for the completion of the integration process with assistance from
the proposed project.
Ll.       The achievement of this target will involve covering every school
il the country. Calculations for 1974 give the following figures:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Type of School              No. of Schools             No. of Students
Primary                         66,500                  13,599,373
Junior Secondary                 5,721                   1,136,373
Higher Secondary                 1,195                     304,214
Vocational and Technical         3,193                     593,883
There have been increases in these numbers in subsequent years but exact
figures are not available. It is estimated, however, that by the end of
1978 there will be 20 million in primary schools (85% of the age group
7 to 12). In Junior Secondary the estimated number will be about 8 million,
in Higher Secondary approximately 2 million.
9.        The non-formal education directorate (PENMAS) has 140 community
education centres and 314 learning centres. Each centre averages 10 to 12
courses a year with varying durations and each course is attended by 20 to
30 participants who are mostly school dropouts. It is estimated that 50,000
people receive a general and vocational training in this way. The proposed
project will introduce population education (which will include family
planning) into all the non-formal centres.
10.       In the teacher education system there are:
a.   40 secondary teacher training institutes (there are also
40 such institutes in the private sector which receive
no funds from the GOI but they do get academic guidance); and
b.   300 primary teacher training institutes.
The Ministry of Education has undertaken a massive program of in-service
training in connection with the introduction of new curricula. Population
education will be introduced into this program and the proposed project will
support the necessary teacher training and materials. In the provinces a
team of persons drawn from the ranks of inspectors/supervisors will be
trained so that they can be responsible for the supervision of population
education on a regular basis.
Implementation
11.       The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Education.  The
responsible unit will be the National Population Education Project (PNPK).
This unit already has a representative of PENMAS on its staff and will work
through all the operational divisions of the Ministry. At the same time
it will maintain a close liaison with the NFPCB, as well as with those
voluntary agencies whose work is likely to be of assistance in spreading
the population idea. (This cooperation with voluntary bodies has been
planned as a separate program and will be the subject of separate funding.)



ANNEX 8
Page 4
12.       The GOI has requested the continuation of the services of the
present advisor for one year from the commencement of the project. The
salary gap between the termination of his contract at the end of March
1977 and the start of the project will be filled by using savings from
the 16 man-months provided for short-term consultants not used in the
first project. The advisor will:
a.   assist with the preparation of textual materials and
their assimilation into regular textbooks for all
three stages of the education system;
b.   help with the development of teaching kits which the 1975
evaluation found to be in need of drastic revision;
c.   assist the continual development of the non-formal
infrastructure and the proposed changes in its activi-
ties which will entail a greater variety of textbook
applications to new subjects and of visual teaching
materials;
d.   consider that in 1977 population eduation will be
introduced into vocational and technical schools (there
is no model for this new venture and the advisor will
help to devise new curricula and materials suitable for
these needs);
e.   help with the introduction of population education into
the teacher training institutes which will start in 1977;
and
f.   assist in formulating specific research topics, the results
of which should be directly applicable to the program and
its implementation.
13.       The expanded program and its continuation will need a large
number of resource people at a high level. In order to help with the
development of this group, provision is made for 90 man-months of short
and long-term training abroad. It is proposed that two senior staff of
the Ministry of Education should be sent for long-term training to cover
both the in and out-of-school sections of the program. They will develop
expertise in curricula development, teacher training, evaluation and
community/adult education so that they may be sufficiently qualified for
the continuation of the program and guidance at the national level against
the time when technical assistance is withdrawn in 1978. They will be
able to run advanced-level intensive courses to create the additional
manpower required in the field as the program develops. The short-term
study tours will be arranged for provincial-level educational administrators
and lecturers of secondary teacher training institutes and will take place
in Asian countries where population education projects are already ongoing.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
14.       Work on the present project will continue during 1977 with
funds as yet unspent and at the same time the second project will start
its preparatory stage. The first project will merge into the proposed
second project without a break and there will be no interruption in the
process of institutionalizing population education.
Component Details -- In-School
15.       A basic document covering the total curricula for all three
school stages has been prepared. This document includes:
a.   the Indonesian point of view regarding population education;
b.   overall objective;
c.   specific objectives stagewise;
d.   content stagewise;
e.   methodology; and
f.   evaluation procedures.
The purpose of this document is to provide guidelines for the preparation
of instructional materials.
16.       Lessons on population education will be prepared subject-wise and
for the time being they will be printed in three separate textbooks. Later
the material will be incorporated into the regular textooks for individual
subjects (into which population education has been introduced) as they come
up for revision as part of the new curricula. At that point, the separate
population education textbooks will cease to exist.
17.       Teachers handbooks will be prepared to provide both content and
methodology. These handbooks will draw on material from various areas of
study.
18.       The evaluation stressed the importance of audiovisual aids.  There
will be three teaching kits--one for each stage. The materials will be pro-
duced by one or more of the audiovisual centres operating under the Ministry
of Education.
19.       During the first project it was found that evaluation tests made
by teachers were inadequate. For the most part they tested recall and the
teachers' ability to develop more relevant tests needs to be developed. To
this end, the teachers' handbook will contain sample tests.
20.       In order to instill a positive idea of their role in the develop-
ment of the country, young workers must be informed and educated in the social
sciences to ensure their proper participation in economic development. A
start will be made in vocational training schools in 1977 to:



ANNEX 8
Page 6
a.   survey the vocational program so that a strategy can
be devised for the introduction of population education;
b.   develop a core curriculum;
c.   develop core and sample materials;
d.   create in-service training programs for teachers and
key personnel; and
e.   adapt audiovisual materials for in-service use.
This pilot period will be followed by implementation so that by 1979
population education will be integrated in the curricula of all vocational
schools.
21.       At the level of secondary school training institutes, necessary
measures will be taken with the appropriate authorities to develop a compul-
sory course of one semesters' duration. A tentative syllabus and materials
have already been prepared and these are being tried out in four regions. At
primary teacher training level, population education will either be integrated
into existing curricula or a separate short-term course may be developed.
Textual materials and handbooks will be developed for both levels. Approx-
imately 240 lecturers (one from each faculty of the secondary-level training
institutes) will be given an intensive training of two-weeks duration. There
will be 900 primary teacher trainees indoctrinated and since teachers assume
considerable leadership roles in rural areas they will be in an advantageous
position to influence the rural community.
22.       The massive campaign of upgrading teachers for the new curricula
was launched in 1976 by the Ministry of Education and will continue for
three or four years until it has reached all the teachers in the country.
Time has been set aside for the introduction of population education and
280 teachers--one from each district--will be trained.
23.       The printing and distribution of textbooks, materials and teachers'
handbooks present grave problems because of the numbers that are needed and
their cost. For the moment each school will have four copies of the transi-
tional textbook. Three teachers?handbooks will be prepared--one for each
stage--and one copy of each will be given to every school. Provincial
sources of funding will be found to complete the material production pro-
gram. Two thousand sets of teaching kits will be prepared and a system
whereby they will be circulated among schools is being devised.
Component Details -- Non-formal Education
24.       The Directorate of Non-formal Education (PENMAS) is planning
the development of three grades of packages for their learning centres.
These packages will differ in the depth of their content so that they
may be of use to school dropouts from primary, junior secondary and higher



ANNEX 8
Page 7
secondary levels. (The majority dropout at primary level.) Production of
these materials will take into account the necessity of making the contents
attractive to the students. Population/FP materials will be included in the
three types of packages.
25.       Detailed handbooks for instructors in the centres are important
since they are not working in an in-school situation and are, in any case,
mostly part-time. They will also be given guidance for collecting relevant
local information so that the lessons can relate to the students own environ-
ment. Thirty sets of the reading book and five sets of the handbook will
be provided for each centre.
26.       The contents of non-formal teaching kits will need to be of a
simpler design than those for in-school and the kits should have more mater-
ials. Each centre will be given one kit and five will be given to each of the
national and regional training centres. Each centre will be provided with a
filmstrip/ slide projector.
27.       Three instructors from national and regional training centres
will be trained in population education. The training course will be of
two-weeks' duration and emphasis will be on developing skills in surveying
the locality and its problems and utilizing the material in class work.
28.       It is not yet known when the satellite (PALAPA), already launched,
will be available for use by ministries with development programs. It will
be so used, however, and the Department of Education intends to undertake
the upgrading of teachers in remote areas and to reinforce present school
teaching by offering special courses through PALAPA.  PNPK will work with the
Educational Technology Task Force under Educational Planning (BP 3 K) and a
modest plan for utilization which will include scripts for telecasts is
included.  The actual production will be funded and carried out by BP 3 K but
there is some small funding for the preparatory work.
29.       It will be necessary for every district in the country to over-
see the program. (At present there are 280 districts in the country but
these are likely to increase in the near future.) In each district there
are two officers who look after the total education program--one for in-
school and one for non-formal. Six hundred such officers will be trained.
There will also be a need for orientation courses for other categories of
officers and persons both in Government as well as in the private sector
to help implement the program. There is a provision for five workshops-
cum-intensive courses of two-weeks' duration for 50 people.
30.       A systematic plan of evaluation will be carried out at national,
regional and local levels. At school level there will be self evaluation
by teachers and students. At provincial level it will be carried out
every six months for a period of two years by inspectors, headmasters
and PNPK staff. The central committee will carry out the yearly evalua-
tion. Provision for these activities is made in the budget.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
31.       Research will mainly concern itself with the content of population
education, studies in teaching methods and techniques (with special attention
to the use of the mass media) and research and experiments with regard to
teaching and evaluation materials. Eventually institutes of higher educa-
tion will be involved and so, to encourage them, some of the projects will
be farmed out to unversities and teacher training institutes from the begin-
ning.
32.       In view of the needs of the expanded program, it will be necessary
for the GOI to augment the staff of the PNPK and modify their job descrip-
tions. At present there is a director, an executive secretary, four program-
mers (two for in-school and two for non-formal) and one secretary. The new
set-up envisages exchanging the four programmers into four specialists in
the areas where population education is being integrated for the curricula
i.e., social sciences, sciences, religion and language. In addition there
will be a specialist in teacher education and two specialists in non-formal
education. This new staffing pattern will be the responsibility of the GOI.
33.       The distribution of materials such as textbooks and teaching kits
presents a great problem in a country of many islands and remote areas.
Communications are difficult and very expensive. In the proposed project
materials will need to be delivered to thousands of schools, non-formal
education centres and training institutions. Separate provision is made
in the budget for this essential activity.
34.       The nature of the project ensures Government follow-up.  The imple-
mentation of the project both in and out-of-school on a nationwide scale is
to be the responsibility of the director generals of basic and secondary edu-
cation, of higher education and of non-formal education and sport. Popula-
tion education will be incorporated into the normal duties of the division
of curriculum in each directorate, each sub-division of curricula at pro-
vincial levels, in the division of supervision at national and provincial
level and in the office of education at district level. In the proposed
project, provision is made for the training of the people concerned at all
levels so that population education can become part of their routine duties.
As the project phases out, the whole program and its expenses will be incor-
porated into the work of the Department of Education. Details of the pro-
posed inputs are described in Table 1, an implementation schedule is pre-
sented in Table 2, and cost estimates are shown in Table 3.



Table 1
INDONESIA II: INPUTS AND COST ESTIMATES FOR POPULATION EDUCATION, 1977-79
Serial      Program                Activities           Approximate           Size and Number            Amount             Remarks
No.                                                        Time                                         Required
1.     In-school program   Printing and produc-          1977-78        SD 280,000 textbooks         $ 420,000    The total number
tion of textual                            @ $1.50                                    of SD, SMP, SMA
material (textbooks).                                                                 and vocational
SMP 40,000 textbooks         $  80,000    school is at pres-
@ $2.00                                    ent approximately
75,000 but is
SMA 20,000 textbooks         $  60,000    likely to increase
@ $3.00                                    in next three-four
years.
Printing and produc-        1977-78        SD 70,000 handbooks          $ 140,000
tion of teachers                           @ $2.00
handbooks.
SMP 10,000 handbooks         $  30,000
@ $3.00
SMA 5,000 handbooks          $  15,000
@ $3.00
Preparation of proto-       1977-78        3 workshops and pay-          $  15,000    Artists will help
type teaching kits                         ment to Artist etc.                         in preparing
(one for each stage                                                                    posters, pictures,
SD, SMP, SM.                                                                          diagrams etc.
Production of teaching    1977-78          2000 sets @ US$25.00          $  50,000    To be distributed
kits (one for each                                                                     to kabupaten educa.
stage).                                                                                tion offices,IKIPs
and SPGs.
x1
IX



Table 1 (contd.)
Serial     Program                Activities           Approximate           Size and Number           Amount             Remarks
No.                                                       Time                                        Required
Preparation of              1977-79        3 workshops one for each   $  25,000    This test pool
evaluation materials                       stage.                                     will serve as
(pool of test items).                     40 persons--10 days                         samples to
duration each.                             teachers.
Program for vocational    1977-79          Preparation of curri-        $ 100,000    There are 1,775
schools.                                  culum-instructional                         vocational and
materials and training                     technical schools
program.                                   at present.
2.     Out-of-School        Curriculum develop-          1976-78        2 workshops of 40            $ 20,000      The work will start
Program              ment for various                           persons each--10 days                       in the first
(non-formal)         PENMAS program.                            duration.                                  phase also.
Preparation of              1976-78        4 workshops of 10            $  40,000    New materials for
Instructional                              persons each--10 days                      A, B and C packa-
materials:                                 duration.                                  ges will be prep-
(a) Reading books                                                                     ared.
(b) Teachers'Hand-
book
Production of In-           1977-78        30 sets fr each              $ 60,000      At present there
structional                                centre of  (a) and                         are 140 PENMAS
materials.                                 five sets for each                         centres but they
of (b).                                    are increasing
every year.
Preparation of teach-       1977-78        2 workshops of 40            $  40,000    Payment to Artist
ing kits (prototype)                       persons each and                           is included in
(charts, posters,                          farming out to Artist.                     the estimates.
diagrams, picture
books etc.)
cco



Table 1 (contd.)
Serial      Program               Activities             Approximate        Size and Number           Amount           Remarks
No.                                                      Time                                       Required
Production of teach-       1978-79        500 sets (one each           $  25,000    Some sets may
ing kits (charts,                         for local provincial                       later be utilized
posters, picture                          and national train-                        for other volun-
books, manual slides                      ing centre) @ $50.00.                      tary agencies'
etc.).                                                                               program in popula-
tion education.
Training of PENMAS          1977-79       Approximately 500 for        $ 100,000    To be carried out
Instructors.                              two weeks duration                         at the provin-
(3 from each centre).                     cial level.
Supply of slide-cum-       1978-79        500 sets @ $200.00.          $ 100,000    To be distributed
film-strip projectors                                                                to kabupaten-lKIPs
and slides and film-                                                                 and some volun-
strips.                                                                              tary agencies.
Preparation of sample       1977-78       sample materiaL               $  10,000    To be used by
material for satellite.                                                               Department of
Information for
telecast.
3.     Teacher Educa-       Training of 6 lecturers   1977-78          Approximately 240            $  80,000    There are over 36
tion Program         from each IKIP.                            two weeks duration.                        government IKIPs
at present but
calculation is
made for 40.
Training of instruc-        1977-79        300 x 3 = 900;               $ 160,000    There are 300
tors from each SPG.                        ten days duration.                         Government subsi-
dized SPG s at
present. To be
conducted at
provincial
level.
O0D



Table 1 (contd.)
Serial    Program                 Activities           Approximate          Size and Number           Amount           Remarks
No.                                                     Time                                       Required
4.     Working with         Training of Master          1977-78        Approximately 260;            $  70,000    To be conducted
provinces            Teachers for up-                           14 days duration.                          at provincial
grading program                                                                       level.
(ten from each
province).
Training of Educa-          1977-79        Approximately 600;           $ 100,000    In the reorganized
tion Officers at                           seven days duration                        set up of the
kabupaten level.                           (280 kabupaten).                           Department of
Education. These
officers are in -
charge of educa-
tion at kabupaten
level. Two from
each kabupaten to
be trained.
5.     Evaluation and       Provincial level            1977-79        4 provincial level            $  30,000    Money for super-
Research             and national level.                        (six monthly)                               vision will be
2 national level                           obtained from the
(yearly),                                  funds from GOI
(rupiah murni
budget).
Research projects           1977-79        Projects to be               $  50,000    To be farmed out
concerned with                             taken at national                          to institutions
the program.                               and Provincial levels.                     of higher
education.
OQI'



Table 1 (contd.)
Serial      Program              Activities           Approximate         Size and Number          Amount           Remarks
No.                                                    Time                                      Required
6.     Fellowships         For specialization          1977-79       90 man-months                $ 100,000    At least two
in population educa-                                                                candidates will be
tion (school sector                                                                 sent for Doctorate
degree program).                                                                    program.
For specialization in
population education
(non-formal degree
program).
Short-term study
tour.
7.     Technical           Curriculum and instruc-   1977-79         12 man-months                $  45,000    To help in all
Assistance          tional material expert.                                                              academic aspects
of expanded
program.
8.     Distribution         Distribution to provin-   1977-79        Textbooks, teaching          $  25,000
of Material         cial, kabupaten and                       materials, etc.
kecamatan levels
TOTAL                $ 1,990,000
Abbreviations:    IKIP:  Educational Teacher Training Institute
SD     Primary School
SMA    High School
SMP    Secondary School
SPG    Teacher Training School
D 0



Table  2
INDONESIA II: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR POPULATION EDUCATION COMPONENT
t'  7I              _  1978                             1979    -
A-ctivities--                                                         - -_ _ _-  - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -  _ _ _ _
CtlVl_____________________________________ _ ej 111 '2I   12 1T3 14 16 567 i8  9 i   lOI1 121 1 2 13  4 i5  6 L7;89
A. in-school Program                             !          Il l   |1-1-j                      j -1-I---
Printing and production of textual material   xx xx xx               I                          i
(SD, SMP, SMA)                                   .                            i
Printing and production of teachers handbook  xx xxixxi
(SD, SMP, SMA)                                      .
Preparation of teaching kits                  |xx xx x                                      I      I
Production of teaching kits                      t        l            l         x  xj xx x
Program of vocational schools                                 Ixx xx xx                  x xi xl x  Xl  xx xx xx1xxx 1 xx xx x  X
Preparation of evaluation materials                                                                             xx x  x
(pool of test items)                         i                               
B. Out-of-School Progra                                      i            j     i               i        | 
Curriculum development for various PENMAS      xx                            i
programs                                                                     |     |
Preparation of instruction materials:             xxxxjj
- Reading books; teachers'handbook                        III    I
Production instructional materials                            xx xx xx Ix                             i
Preparation of teaching kits (prototype);               xx xx xx xx
chart, poster, diagram, slide,etc.                            I       I|
Production of teaching kits                   i 1  1                            x'1' x
Training of PNNMAS instructors                                                 x    XI I               xxI  x  x  x !
Supply of slide or film-strip                                          xI        I               xxi
Preparation of sample material satellite                                             xxMI xIxA x1x
I   !  I ,,        I I i



Table 2 (contd.)
--'77F1                    19,8 9  _           I            1979
Activities
Activities___________________________  _     |10111112  1  2   13  14  5  6  7  8  9   110   11112  I  3   14   15   16 27   i   19
C.  Fellowships1I                                            I          I
For specialization on population education                                      xx xx xx Lx  X xX KX XX|
(school program) degree program                                 |
For specialization on population education                                       xx xx xx x x  x xx  X x KX KX KII
(non-formal) degree program                     I                                         ji 
Short-term study tour                                                     K  ix    xx
).  Advisory Service
Advisory service                              xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
3.  Teacher Education Prq_ram
Training of six lectures from each IKIP                          i                        kx                          kx
Training of instructors from SPG                                                     x xx  xxx xx
F.  Working with Provinces                                              II
Training of Master teachers for upgrading   l                        xx xx |xx |xx|       I||||||||I 
program (10 from each province)                  'I|I
Training of education officers at kabupaten                                      xx xx xx           x  KX
level                                                    
Evaluation and Research                                                                |
Provincial level                                                          kx xx                               x Kx
National level                                                                          9 Kx                        X KX
Research projects concerned with the program                                           pX Kx Kx |X
_ _ _ _ _ _ ~   $I{                             jI                             .i ~  I   i I
,bbreviations:    IKIP : Educational Teacher Training Institutes
SD   : Primary School
SMA  : High School
SMP  : Secondary School
SPG  : Teacher Training School                                                   -|



ANNEX 8
Page 16
Table 3
INDONESIA II: POPULATION EDUCATION
EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND GOI FISCAL YEAR
(US.$ 000)                                      _
Cateogry           1977-78 L/ 1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83 - Total
Non-Civil Works
Special Equipment                   100.0                                              lO.0
and Materials
Setinars and                95.0     267.8      287.2                                   650.0
Workshops
Surveys and                           40.0      40.0                                     80.0
Evaluation
Preparation and            749.0     220.6       45.4                                 1,015.0
Production of
Training Aids
Fellowships and             19.0      73.2       52.8                                   145.0
Advisors
Sub-Total                 863.0     701.6     425.4                                  1.990.0
Incremental
Operating Costs            167.3     404.0     404.0    .404.0      404.0      235.7 2,019.0
Base Cost Estimate       1,030.3   1,105.6     829.4      404.0     404.0      235.7 4,039.0
/1  Start of Project:  November 1, 1977.
/2  End of Project  : October 31, 1982.
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA II:  COMMUNITY INCENTIVE SCHEME
Introduction
1.        The community incentive proposal described below seeks to make
increased developmental funds available, above those currently provided
through the INPRES program, for community selected projects in communities
which undertake activities contributing to the institutionalization of fer-
tility limitation, which are likely to result in a permanent reduction in
the number of births in that community each year.
2.        The primary objective of the proposed scheme is to test whether
the promotion and acceptance of the small family norm by the people them-
selves and their communities can be fostered by the application of rewards
for predefined community achievements in family planning. Another objective
of the project is to test alternative institutional arrangements for direct
Government intervention in fertility behavior through the manipulation of
the socio-economic environment.
3.        A by-product of the scheme will be the generation of a variety of
data to be used to examine the inter-relationship between family planning
performance, fertility behavior and developmental inputs in the form of com-
munity incentives. These community incentives, in support of a development
project the community itself has selected, will represent a significant in-
crease in the infusion of developmental funds to poorer communities. It is
expected that the funds will produce basic changes in the socio-economic
structure of the participating communities which will contribute, inde-
pendently, to an overall reduction of fertility. Data generated from the
project will be used to shed light on these changes.
4.        The present strategy of the Indonesian national family planning
program consists of three overlapping but distinct components; program ex-
pansion, acceptor maintenance and program institutionalization with the
ultimate long-range objective being the widespread acceptance of the small
family norm. Program expansion means essentially the development and en-
largement of program activities, such as information, education, communica-
tion and contraceptive services, such that every eligible couple has easy
and direct access to all necessary information concerning contraceptive
practice and program services and such that every couple is able to obtain
safe, effective and inexpensive contraceptive services. However, an in-
formed public and achievements in terms of new acceptors are but the first
step in the process of attaining a permanent reduction in fertility. Once
a couple has decided to accept and use contraception, it is necessary to
ensure that adequate provision is made for consumable contraceptives, such
as oral contraceptives and condoms, that these are provided in such a manner
that they are easily obtained by the acceptor, and that, should difficulties
arise in the use of contraception, adequate back-up and support services
are conveniently located and available to ensure continued contraceptive
use.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
5.        At the present stage of development of the Indonesian national
family planning program, components one and two are primarily the product
of direct Government intervention in fertility behavior. However, in and
of themselves, these components do not guarantee that the ultimate objec-
tive of the widespread acceptance of the small family norm will be achieved.
For such an acceptance to occur other factors must be considered. On the
one hand, past experience seems to indicate that a permanent reduction in
fertility can only be achieved when existing socio-economic conditions which
encourage high fertility are altered in such a way that it is no longer in
the self-interest of a couple to produce many children. These so-called pre-
conditions to voluntary and self-induced fertility reduction generally fall
outside the realm of responsibility of the family planning program. However,
if other Government programs which are designed to alter the basic socio-
economic structure of society can be linked with specific family planning
or fertility achievements, then the family planning effort could be strength-
ened. Furthermore, it seems likely that fertility will decline more rapidly
if developmental activities are tied to family planning performance than
might otherwise be the case if one simply waited for the demographic transi-
tion to run its own natural course.
Rationale
6.        One of the basic assumptions underlying the community incentive
project is that there exist at present a variety of community level disin-
centives, such as the requirement for large numbers of family workers in
agricultural communities, which inhibit an individual member of the community
from practising fertility restraint. Such individual restraint in the face
of the lack of restraint on the part of other members of the community is
perceived by the individual, rightly or wrongly, as detrimental to his own
immediate interests and well being. Many incentive schemes attempting to
influence individual fertility behavior by providing a set of incentives and
rewards to individuals overlook the very important influence of the community
on individual patterns of behavior. In addition, the payoffs from the incen-
tives and rewards offered by most schemes are in many cases either too long-
term to influence short-term behavior or too immediate and of limited util-
ity to provide sustained motivation for permanent changes in behavior.
7.        However, by providing rewards for specific fertility accomplish-
ments to the community as a whole in support of community defined projects
and developmental activities which may generate new income for the poorer
sectors of the community and thus reduce the inequality in distribution
of income, a spirit of community involvement in and commitment to fertility
limitation activities may evolve. Such a community incentive scheme assumes
that even though there exist individuals in the community who do not view
the community selected project as specifically relevant to their own in-
terests and who thus may possess little motivation to regulate their fer-
tility according to community established norms, social pressure from the
rest of community which does view the project as contributing tangibly to
the improvement of the quality of community life may be sufficient to secure
the cooperation of recalcitrants. In terms of the ultimate objectives of



ANNEX 9
Page 3
the national family planning program, such internally generated community
involvement and commitment to fertility reduction is of crucial long-term
importance. In other words, the primary message the Government wishes to
convey to the people is the notion that the practice of family planning and
the acceptance of the small family norm will ultimately benefit the individ-
ual, his family and his community by improving living conditions.
8.        Heretofore, the message has tended to be little more than an ex-
pression of anticipated benefits at some undefined future date. It has
lacked an immediacy which would tangibly demonstrate the type of benefits
to be derived from successful fertility limitation. The community incen-
tive project is an attempt to strengthen the relevance of the message by
demonstrating to communities that successful efforts to curtail fertility
do, in fact, produce results which benefit both the individual and the com-
munity. Furthermore, the incentive scheme, by specifying the institutional
mechanism whereby fertility limitation is to occur, sets in motion a process
whereby community commitment to the means of fertility limitation--family
planning--can be strengthened and is more likely to become a community
need norm.
9.        In short, the community incentive project essentially makes the
following proposition to communities:
a.   if a specified target of current users and a reduced level
of births within a specified period of time is achieved;
b.   if these objectives through the creation or strengthening
of a community family planning institution, such as an
acceptor group are achieved; and
c.   if commitment to and involvement in community efforts to
undertake a variety of developmental activities beyond
family planning are evident;
then the government will reward the community with substantially increased
financial inputs in support of a community-selected project which will
satisfy and tangibly benefit the entire community.
10.       It is anticipated that such a proposal will more quickly stimulate
the community's recognition of the cause and effect relationship between
family planning performance and fertility behavior and an improvement in the
overall standard of living of the entire community. Furthermore, the commu-
nity incentive scheme is seen as a means of strengthening a community-based
acceptor association which will become the basic means in inculcating accept-
ance of the small family norm by the people themselves. By tying develop-
mental inputs which are designed to improve the socio-economic structure
of the entire community to achievements of the community acceptor associa-
tion, it becomes the vested interest of the community as a whole to support



ANNEX 9
Page 4
that assc ;i on.  Similarly, ties between the family planning institution
and other community institutions which involve different sectors of the
society and addressing different developmental issues will be strengthened.
In this way, it is hoped that a developmental dynamic will emerge wherein
fertility limitation and increased community development become a single
conceptual process which is translated into behavior patterns impinging on
the lives of every member of the community. In short, the community incen-
tive scheme should establish a crucial link between immediate and long-term
community level improvements and family planning achievements which are
accomplished through the efforts of its own association of acceptors.
Selection Criteria for Kecamatans
11.       One criteria in the selection of kecamatans will be the level of
past performance in family planning. On average, a kecamatan which already
possesses a large number of new acceptors and current users would seem to
indicate that some type of institutionalization process has already begun.
Such an area need be less concerned with recruiting increased numbers of new
acceptors because past performance suggests that the idea of family planning
is already well accepted, at least among certain sectors of the community.
However, the intent of the scheme is to strengthen and enlarge this accept-
ance and commitment among all sectors. On the other hand, because the scheme
wants to observe the general effect of community incentives on family planning
and fertility accomplishments, other communities will be included where past
family planning performance has been poor.
12.       Another criteria will be the level of the socio-economic develop-
ment of the community. Because the incentive represents a substantial infu-
sion of developmental resources, it possesses the potential for markedly
altering the basic socio-economic structure of the community which in itself
may cause a change in fertility behavior quite independently. Also, because
national developmental resources are not unlimited, it will be within the
national Government's overall strategy of development to select those keca-
matans which fall within the poorest and most densely populated of the prov-
inces selected.
13.       Since the first five-year plan, the Government of Indonesia has
undertaken a labor-intensive work program in Java and Bali as part of its
effort to increase employment and income in rural areas. The program aims
to reduce the degree of seasonal unemployment and underemployment through
the provision of simple infrastructure such as village roads, irrigation
canals, small dams and, where appropriate, reafforestation activities.
14.       In the second five-year plan, the program has been designed to
be undertaken in selected kecamatans according to the following criteria:
poverty and density of population. Poor kecamatans are defined as those
where per capita production valued at market prices is lower than the rupiah
value required to purchase the minimum amount of nine basic necessities for
one year s consumption. The nine basic necessities and their amounts are:



ANNEX 9
Page 5
rice 100 Kg, dried salted fish 15 Kg, kerosene 60 litres, frying oil 6 Kg,
batik 2 pieces, soap 20 pieces and textile 4 metres. From among the set of
kecamatans, final selection is made in accordance with their ranking in popu-
lation density per km 2 In general, population density ranges from 1,000 to
more than 4,000 per km and value of production per capita/year is less than
Rp 21,000 (US$50.60) at 1973 prices.
15.       A total of 14 kecamatans from the five provinces of Java and Bali
(excluding Jakarta) and North Sumatra and South Sulawesi will be selected.
Selection of the kecamatan will be based on the requirement that they are in-
cluded in the poorest and most densely populated of each province. Within
this broad category, seven kecamatans with the best overall performance in
terms of current users will be chosen and seven will also be selected where
current users are below average. All villages within the kecamatan selected
(15 on average) will be eligible to participate in the scheme.
Type of Incentive
16.       The incentive funds will be used to support a project which the
community (or village) itself has selected. The selected project will be
chosen by the community as a whole, and that the selection represents a con-
sensus of community opinion. Only in this way can sufficient motivation be
generated to directly influence individual behavior and community pressure
be sufficient to ensure the active cooperation and participation of all of
its constituent members.
17.       Within this broad limitation, the project to be supported by the
incentive funds should involve a developmental activity which will contribute
to a major restructuring of the basic socio-economic environment of the com-
munity by reducing income inequalities both within and between communities,
and by providing alternative sources of employment for women and for the
underemployed. Ideally, therefore, the project which the community selects
will include the provision of simple infrastructure (roads, irrigation sys-
tems, bridges, a community building, such as a classroom or meeting hall)
provision of farm or other credit, vocational training, provision of health
and nutrition services, or capital for the development of alternative eco-
nomic opportunities. Such activities will be expected to have a both long-
term impact on the development of the community and a more immediate economic
impact by providing employment opportunities for the poorer sectors of the
community such as would be the case in the construction of infrastructure.
18.       However, the use of incentive funds will not necessarily be re-
stricted to developmental projects. For example, it is possible, although
perhaps unlikely, that a community will decide to select a project that
represents very little potential in terms of increased productive capacity.
The community might decide that it really needs a mosque. If this decision
reflects a village consensus, then the incentive would not be refused simply
on the grounds that it does not conform to some broader development objective.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
19.       In short, in order to assist communities in selecting a project,
it will be necessary to present to communities the full range of possible
uses of incentive funds, with a breakdown of the costs involved with each
alternative and an indication of the potential benefits to be derived. The
project selected will, of course, be limited by the amount of incentive funds
available to each community. Each kecamatan will have Rp 10 million (about
US$24,000) allocated as incentive funds which should be sufficient for suc-
cessful communities to be able to consider a significant range of alterna-
tive projects.
Criteria for Releasing Incentive Funds
20.       Quantitative Criteria:  The quantitative criterion on which eligi-
bility for incentive payment will be judged, is the decline in fertility
during a year in the community. But, in the short run, such a change in
fertility level is difficult to measure directly. For practical purposes,
then, it will be assumed that fertility in the year t+1 declines inversely
to the number of current users for the year t. However, the impact of the
incentive program on village fertility will be subject to continual moni-
toring throughout the five years of the project.
21.       The overall national objective is the reduction in fertility to
50% of the 1970-71 level by the year 2000-01. On the basis of a linear
decline, this involves a reduction in fertility of 1.7% per year. The esti-
mated fertility levels for 1976-77 show that the family planning program, so
far, has been more effective in Java and Bali than that which is predicted
by the national target. However, since the trend in fertility levels for
small communities are not available, it will be assumed that a diminution
in fertility level by 1.7% during a year is necessary for qualifying to
receive the community incentive. This can be translated to mean that the
user-rate per 100 married women 15-44 years should have increased by at least
1.7% during the year. 1/ User-rates are regularly calculated by the national
family planning program. Their relevance, and their relationship to number of
acceptors and the contraceptive methods in use will be explained to the
communities selected. During the first year of the study, other indices of
performance will be considered one of which will be the pregnancy rate, which
takes into account non-contraceptive effects on fertility including sociolo-
gical factors.
22.       Several villages might record an increase of less than 1.7% in
the user-rate which will be used as an index of performance in the first year.
If so, the incentive money allocated to the kecamatan will be divided in
proportion to the excess decline recorded by each village. A ceiling will,
however, be imposed on the maximum amount of incentive money given to a
village in any one year. This will be determined in advance of the beginning
of the project and will be based on the anticipated absorptive capacity of a
typical "poor and densely populated" village.
1/   This level is likely to imply a reduction in fertility exceeding 1.7%
as not all married women are exposed to childbearing through the year.
However, considering the nature of the scheme, a 1.7% increase in user-
rate seems justified.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
23.       Qualitative Criteria:  Simply increasing the number of current
users ir. a specified time period will not be considered sufficient to qualify
for the incentive award. The primary reason is that a temporary increase in
the number of new acceptors can be achieved in a variety of devious and ir-
regular ways which at best produce little change in long-term fertility
behavior and which at worst may cause a backlash against the program. In
addition, institutionalizing fertility limitation in the community and creat-
ing a favorable community attitude about fertility reduction and the small
family norm requires a more fundamental structural and behavioral change than
merely temporarily intensifying efforts to recruit new acceptors over the
short run.
24.       Consequently, achievements in new acceptor targets must, for the
purpose of this project, operate and be channelled through the mechanism of
a community organization that either presently exists or one that will be
created for this purpose. The type of institution envisioned is along the
lines of, but not necessarily confined to, the village acceptor groups typical
of East and West Java.  Many communities already possess such a group.
These function, at present, primarily as a resupply distribution point for
contraceptives and as a mechanism for improving to some extent the socio-
economic conditions of its members. On the whole, however, these groups have
yet to realize their full potential for motivating, recruiting and maintaining
family planning acceptors in the community itself, nor have they fully ex-
panded their ties with other community institutions. They have only begun
to draw on the resources of other community groups in order to strengthen
and enlarge the role of the acceptor groups in general development areas,
and they have hardly begun to make much input into these other groups in
terms of creating a family planning and small family norm awareness. Only
when the acceptor group, be it through the auspices of an existing community
institution or through a group specifically created for this purpose, en-
larges and strenghens its role in the community, forges closer ties with
groups which reach other sectors of the society, and reorients community
thinking toward the inter-relationships between fertility limitation, de-
velopment and an improvement in the way of life of the community as a whole,
can the process of institutionalization of fertility limitation be said
to be moving forward.
25.       It is primarily for this reason that an increase in current users
must be linked to a strengthening of a community family planning institution.
The exact determination of the type of institution will be left to the com-
munities themselves. They will be free to choose whether they want to create
a formal acceptor group as is presently found in many communities, whether
they want a more general village family planning committee, including
acceptors as well as non-acceptors, men as well as women, etc. However, to
be eligible to receive the annual incentive, a community must demonstrate
that it does in fact possess such a group.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
Operational Guidelines to Assist in Family Planning Development
and Evaluation
26.       Whatever institution is chosen, it will be necessary for it to
undertake a number of activities, among which are:
a.   enlargement of membership to include all couples
(husbands and wives) in the community currently
using family planning;
b.   creation and maintenance of a register of all
married couples aged 15-44 in the community. Such
a register must include the names and addresses
(using a village map) of all eligible couples, data
related to whether or not contraception is now or ever
has been used, the type of contraceptives used, monthly
information on resupplies of consumable contraceptives
and monthly information on pregnancy status. The village
authorities will share responsibility with the group for
the maintenance of the register;
c.   the holding of monthly meetings with attendance taken
of acceptors (husbands and wives) at which time the
register will be updated and a special program will be
presented. The program can be quite simple in format
but should involve discussion of some aspect of family
planning or population and development. It is hoped
that these meetings will stimulate community discussion
of these issues, will involve questions and answers, and
will include the active participation of community leaders
(formal and informal), acceptors, potential acceptors and
others in the community who may not be directly involved
in family planning. The expectation is that, although
these meetings are convened primarily for all family
planning acceptors, the issues discussed will be suffi-
ciently broad and interesting and will involve a wide
variety of discussants that other members of the community
who may not be current family planning users will be
attracted to the meetings;
d.   expansion of activities in the field of motivation, re-
cruitment and maintenance of acceptors in the community.
Under the scheme, the village family planning group will
be expected to assume a more active role in motivating
and recruiting its own new acceptors. This can be
achieved by the group itself and/or in conjunction with
regular program personnel (for example, by accompanying



ANNEX 9
Page 9
the fieldworker from house to house motivating and
recruiting). Naturally, it will be necessary for the
national and provincial family planning organization to
provide the village group with the means for undertaking
such motivational activities. However, rather than relying
on sophisticated equipment, the schemes guidelines will
include suggestions for a variety of simple approaches such
as the suggestion that satisfied acceptors talk to each other
about their experiences, or getting couples who have success-
fully limited their fertility discuss the individual and
family benefits of such limitation. Similarly, the group
could assist in giving encouragement to new acceptors who
may experience contraceptive side effects shortly after
acceptance. The group can also become an effective referral
system for those acceptors who experience major difficulties
with contraceptive methods by requesting assistancce from
outside the village, kecamatan-based clinic doctor or midwife.
e.   expansion of non-family planning activities designed to have
an impact on its own members and on the community should be
encouraged.  These may include the establishment of a regular
lottery, a cooperative store, special courses in nutrition,
sewing or handicrafts, or the establishment of marketing
schemes.  To impact on the community at large, the group will
be expected to call on the assistance of other community
groups and make inputs into these groups by discussing family
planning and how fertility limitation is both a responsibility
and benefit to the groups concerned. The scheme will also
require community authorities to initiate a vital registra-
tion system with appropriate penalties for non-compliance.
This system will be an important tool for monitoring the
births in the community and also for securing the active
cooperation and involvement of the village authorities in
the scheme.
Monitoring and Evaluation
27.       Four types of research will be undertaken in conjunction with the
community incentive scheme: (a) baseline studies; (b) output monitoring;
(c) process evaluation; and (d) basic research.
28.       Baseline Studies:  It will be necessary to undertake several
baseline surveys in all participating villages at the start of the proj-
ect. These will focus primarily on an inventory of family planning inputs
and outputs and on the socio-economic characteristics of communities. In
terms of family planning inputs, data will be collected on the present
status of family planning services, including the number and location of
family planning clinics, village contraceptive resupply depots, acceptor
groups, available program medical personnel including doctors, midwives,



ANNEX 9
Page 10
paramedics, fieldworkers, and information teams. Existing budgetary inputs
for family planning from the provincial and kabupaten levels will alo be
established. Family planning output will include the number of new accep-
tors.estimates of current users, and continuation rates. The source oL
much of the family planning information will be derived from existing clinic
records; fieldworker and group leader; reports and interviews with family
planning personnel.
29.       To estimate the impact of the incentive payments on the socio-
economic structure of communities as well as to investigate the more gen-
eral relationship between socio-economic change and fertility, the baseline
survey will include information on the socio-economic characteristics of
village. This data will be the basis for future comparisons and will be
based on interviews of community leaders and on a sample of village respon-
dents. The types of data sought will include information on land use and
ownership, the composition of the village government, village, demography,
educational status, occupation, housing, religion and economic life.
30.       Output Monitoring:  Any scheme such as this which proposes to
reward behavior faces a major problem in determining whether in fact the
criteria for reward have been met or whether there is only the appearance
of success. Because communities will be competing with each other on, among
other things, quantitative criteria, it will be necessary to ascertain whether
the reported quantitative achievements correspond to actual achievements. The
primary source of information on quantitative achievements--namely, the number
of new acceptors, increases in current users, and a reduction of births--will
be the village registry of all eligible couples maintained jointly by the
family planning group and by the village authorities. A second source of
data on these achievements will be the information already collected on a
routine basis by family planning fieldworkers. A third source of informa-
tion, particularly on births, will be the vital registration system.
31.       Recognizing the great temptation to inflate reports of accomplish-
ments because of the substantial financial rewards offered, it will be neces-
sary to institute an independent, extra-community monitoring system. Because
of the large number of participating villages, the large population size and
the geographic extensiveness of the various project areas, it will be impos-
sible to verify the completeness and accuracy of every entry in the village
registry. Therefore, a sampling technique will be employed whereby the
accuracy and completeness of the information can be estimated. At approxi-
mately the beginning of month eight in each project year, a sample survey
will be conducted in the selected kecamatans to collect data on the names
and addresses of married couples aged 15-44, current and past (last 12 months)
pregnancy status, recent information about acceptance and use of contracep-
tion as well as attitudinal and behavioral information. This information
will be compared with that from the village registry and the vital registra-
tion scheme using basic techniques associated with dual record keeping sys-
tems. Based on the results of the matching of the three systems, estimates
will be derived of the accuracy and completeness of the village registry and



ANNEX 9
Page I1
the vital registration system. Having established sampling procedures and
designed a questionnaire before going to the field, it is expected that the
field work itself would be completed within two months and the matching com-
pleted within another three months.
32.       Process Evaluation:  The objective of process evaluation is essen-
tially to investigate the extent to which the institutionalization of family
planning is actually occurring in the village. Two points in time will be
examined: the period before an incentive is made; the period after receipt
of the incentive. The period before award of the incentive is crucial because
it is at this time that community motivation and anticipation of success will
be at their peak. One will want to know how the community is reacting to the
possibility of the incentive and what effect the incentive is having on the
family planning behavior of the community and on the activities of the com-
munity institution singled out for strengthening. One will also want to know
the extent to which the community reaches a consensus on the possible use of
the incentive funds if received and on the extent to which the ultimate objec-
tives of fertility limitation and small family norm are identified with the
achievement of the project selected. Longitudinal studies of communities
after they receive the incentive will be most important in determining whether
the incentive has in fact been a catalyst for setting in motion the mechanism
of attaining the broader objectives of institutionalizing a program of fer-
tility limitation in the community or whether the incentive becomes simply
an immediate objective which the community effectively mobilizes for but
which has no longer-range impact. If it is found that the incentive does
function as a catalyst for setting in motion other more permanent processes,
one will want to know what these processes are, how they become manifest in
community behavior, and if they can be replicated in other communities through
means other than the direct application of special purpose incentives such as
these.
33.       In order to obtain information on these matters, a variety of tech-
niques will be employed. Interviews will be conducted with individuals from
outside the community whose work, nevertheless, brings them into contact with
the community. Such individuals might include the Camat and his staff, fam-
ily planning fieldworkers and group leaders, as well as other field repre-
sentatives of other national programs.  Information will, in addition, be
obtained through interviews of village officials, local informal and formal
leaders, as well as a sample of village residents.
34.       Independent observations will also be made by a team of trained
observers who will attend village meetings where the use of incentive funds
is discussed and who will attend meetings of the family planning institution
in order to observe their operation and the participation of members, and
who will be able to talk informally with villagers about their overall
impressions of the project.
35.       Basic Research:  Because the incentive award represents a poten-
tially large infusion of developmental resources into poor communities, it
possesses great potential for altering the basic socio-economic structure



ANNEX 9
Page 12
of the commun.ity. Theory tells us that such changes may have considerable
impact on altering patterns of fertility quite independently of any direct
family planning intervention. The purpose of basic research studies is to
determine what changes in socio-economic structure have occurred in the com-
munity both as a direct result of the incentive and as a by-product. In addi-
tion, a number of small scale studies will be instituted to test specific
hypotheses concerning socio-economic change and fertility behavior.
36.       In order to determine whether basic socio-economic changes are
occurring, two follow-up surveys will be conducted during approximately the
third and fifth years of the project. The content of the surveys will be
patterned after the baseline socio-economic survey and will be specifically
designed to measure any changes that have taken place.
Institutional Arrangements
37.       One of the objectives of this project is to explore various alter-
natives for linking fertility performance and manipulation of the socio-
economic environment. As a start, four ministries and agencies will work
together in the design and execution of the project. These will include
the Ministry for Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration
and Cooperatives, the National Economic Policy Planning Agency (BAPPENAS),
and the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB). A national
steering committee composed of ranking officials from each will be estab-
lished to provide overall policy direction and the coordination of the proj-
ect. The NFPCB would provide a coordinator who would act as chairman of the
committee, and the necessary executive staff.
38.       Each participating ministry and agency would create its own team
responsible for designing and executing its particular function in the proj-
ect. The NFPCB would be responsible for providing overall coordination of
the scheme, assisting in the development of the community family planning
institution, monitoring the family planning achievements of villages, insti-
tuting a vital registration system, making the final decision each year con-
cerning the villages to receive the award, and initiating and coordinating
the research components of the project. For example, the Ministry of Man-
power will provide guidance and technical assistance in the selection and
implementation of village projects which might be supported by the incentive
funds. The Ministry for Internal Affairs will be responsible for securing
the active cooperation and participation of kecamatan and village government
officials who participate in the project. BAPPENAS would be responsible for
the overall development policy implications of the project.
39.       Implementation of the scheme will be achieved primarily through
provincial committees whose composition reflects that of the national steer-
ing committee. In addition, representatives from selected provincial uni-
versities or research centers will become members of the committee. Each
of the ministries and agencies comprising the provincial committee will
carry out its functions and responsibilities through its normal administra-
tive channels.



ANNEX 9
Page 13
40.       Below the provincial level, the focal point of project implemen-
tation will be the Camat (administrative head of the sub-district) for each
kecamatan selected. It is not expected that the administrative responsibil-
ities of the Camat will be greatly expanded. At present the Camat is desig-
nated as the lowest level field official for coordinating all Government
activities, including development programs. In this capacity, he is the
person to whom all field representatives of all Government ministries are
directly responsible. He is also the main source of Government directives
to the desas and hamlets. Since the community incentive scheme is a keca-
matan-wide activity, the role of the Camat in the implementation of the
scheme will be important. The provincial steering committee will work
through and with the Camat in conducting the field activities of the scheme.
41.       To support the national committee and the NFPCB in its survey and
evaluation work, the proposed scheme makes provision for 20 man-months of
technical assistance in the following fields:
a.   person with a background of family planning incentive
studies;
b.   rural employment generation specialist; and
c.   family planning program evaluation specialist.
Time Schedule
42.       The scheme will start about November 1, 1977, and extend for five
years. The following is a sequence of immediately required activities and
responsibilities:
November 1977
a.   NFPCB to appoint scheme coordinator and executive staff.
November 1977-May 1978
b.   Coordinator to call meetings of national steering com-
mittee to:
i.   clarify functions and responsibilities of each
participant;
ii.   determine detailed plan of action and annual
budgets;
iii.   create provincial steering committees;
iv.   select kecamatans;



ANNEX 9
Page 14
v.   determine research designs for baseline surveys,
monitoring and evaluation; and
vi.   hold workshops at national and provincial level
to explain the scheme.
c.   NFPCB to provide adequate family planning services to
selected kecamatans.
d.   NFPCB to devise schemes for eligible couples regular
and vital registration schemes.
February-May 1978
e.   Provincial committees through Camats to explain scheme
to villages in selected kecamatans.
March-June 1978
f.   Camats to organize community institutions where necessary,
and begin implementation of eligible couples registers
and vital registration schemes.
By June 1978, the basic elements of the scheme will have been determined
and preparatory activities completed. A schedule of selected activities is
attached as Table 1 and an annual budget is shown as Table 2.



Table 1
INDONESIA II: COMMUNITY INCENTIVE SCHEME - ACTIVITY SCHEDULE
M o n t h s
Activity                     l'-     6        12       18        24       30       36        42       48        54        60
National Committee Established
Basic Plans of Action
Provincial Committee Established
Kecamatan Selection
Family Planning Services Improved
Workshops at Various Levels to
Explain Scheme
Village Institutions Organized          _
Research Strategy Determined
Baseline Surveys
Eligible Couples Registers
Vital Registration Scheme
Monitoring and Process Research
Evaluation Studies
Basic Research
Report Preparation and
Progress Review
OQ
/1  November 1, 1977.                                                                                                          M



ANNEX 9
Page 16
Table  2
INDONESIA II: COMMUNITY INCENTIVE SCHEME
EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND GOI FISCAL YEAR
(US$ 000s)
Category              1977-78L-  1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83L2Total
Surveys, Evaluation and        255.0      528.4      435.2      374.4      428.4      315.6  2,337.0
Incentives
Technical Assistance            25.0       50.0       25.0                                      100.0
Incremental Operating           38.1       88.4      101.2      101.2      101.2       75.9    506.0
Costs
Base Cost Estimates            318.1      666.8      561.4      475.6      529.6      391.5  2,943.0
/1   Start of Project:  November 1, 1977.
/2   End of Project  : October 31, 1982.
Source:   BAPPENAS (National Development and Planning Agency).



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA II: ORAL CONTRACEPTIVE RAW MATERIALS FEASIBILITY STUDY
Background
1.        Two aspects stand out significantly when one reviews the demand
for contraception generated by the national family planning program. The
first is that demand has risen steeply; the number of new acceptors in Java
and Bali has risen from 53,000 in 1969-70 to 1.98 million in 1976-77. And
secondly, demand for oral contraceptives by acceptors has increased from
27.5% in 1969-70 to 66.8% in 1976-77. These trends are illustrated in
Table 1. Because continuation rates for oral contraceptives are lower
(worldwide and in Indonesia) than for the IUD, one of the NFPCB's medium-
term strategy targets is to lower the dependence on oral contraceptives to
50% by 1983-84 and conversely raise the use of IUDs (now 18.4%) to 30% by
the same time (Annex 4). Even if successful, this implies recruiting 10.8
million oral contraceptive acceptors between 1977-78 and 1983-84, 8.1 million
in Java and Bali alone. As of March 1977, it was estimated that 2.07 million
or 59.4% of married women in the reproductive age group (15-44 years) prac-
tising contraception in Java and Bali were current users of oral contracep-
tives.
2.        The total annual consumption of oral contraceptives increased
from 456,311 cycles in 1969 to 14.6 million cycles in 1974 and to about
30 million cycles in 1976-77. Projected requirements for oral contracep-
tives have been estimated by the NFPCB. They will increase to about 56.0
million by 1983-84. Details are given in Table 2.
3.        The necessary supplies of oral contraceptives have been provided
by foreign donors. By September 1976, 99% were provided for by the USAID.
From October 1976, the USAID provided a loan of US$7.5 million to provide
for contraceptive supplies and possibly raw materials in lieu of finished
products over the next 12 months. Details of the receipt of contraceptives
from 1969-70 to 1974-75 are given in Table 3. Supplies have been provided
with a buffer stock of 12 months' supply in hand. Quarterly estimates of
USAID supplies, consumption and stocks on hand from October 1975 through
December 1977 are given in Table 4.
4.        Late in 1975, the USAID advised the GOI that it proposed to dis-
continue the free supply of oral contraceptives in September 1976, but it
would be prepared to make a loan of US$7.5 million to cover supplies (includ-
ing one year's buffer stocks) in US FY 1976-77. As a result, the GOI decided
to make immediate preparation for the production of oral contraceptives
in one of the existing Government-controlled pharmaceutical manufacturing
facilities.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Local Oral Contraceptive Production
5.        To assist the Government, an advisor was recruited in November 1975
and paid from the joint IDA/UNFPA-assisted project to advise the GOI on oral
contraceptive production. He served on contract from April to November 1976
and has signed a second contract which will run from February 1977 through
February 1978.
6.        With his assistance, the GOI has selected one of the Government-
controlled pharmaceutical manufacturers--Kimia Pharma--to produce oral con-
traceptives. With a loan from the Indonesian Development Bank (BAPINDO)
of Rp 450 million (US$1.1 million), Kimia Pharma is now constructing facil-
ities and procuring equipment to tablet and package oral contraceptives at
its plant in Bandung. Production capacity will be 18 million cycles annually.
By late 1979, Kimia Pharma will concentrate its manufacturing capacity (now
spread over five factories) in Jakarta in the new industrial zone. This will
include capacity to produce 50 million cycles. Investment and production
plans are now in preparation.
7.        If USAID is satisfied with the capability of the Bandung plant
to produce high quality steroid oral contraceptives, part of its current
loan will be used to purchase raw materials. USAID has given indications
that further loans might be available for the purchase of raw materials,
provided a manufacturing capability has been effectively established and
a continuous and adequate supply of oral contraceptives for the national
program is assured.
Raw Materials Feasibility Study
8.        Parallel with plans for local production, the GOI has declared
that its oral contraceptive production should also be independent of for-
eign resources of raw materials. To this end, a task force, chaired by a
BAPPENAS official, was established in October 1976 to prepare the outline of
a feasibility study. The objective of the study is to determine whether it
is possible to produce the precursors for the production of steroid hormones
and eventually steroid oral contraceptives in Indonesia, utilizing existing
national resources. The most versatile precursors of steroid hormones at
present are diosgenin from certain species of Dioscorea and solasidin from
species of Solanacese. Some species of both plants exist in Indonesia.
9.        The study will comprise three phases:
a.   exploration for and inventory of indigeneous species
of Dioscorea and Solanacese;
b.   adaptation of promising indigeneous species; and
c.   phytochemical screening.
A schedule of the study's activities is given in Table 5.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
10.       The study will be coordinated by a committee to be established by
the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB). It will comprise:
a.   Study Coordinator  (appointed by NFPCB);
b.   BAPPENAS;
c.   Ministry of Health (MOH);
d.   Bogor Agricultural University;
e.   Drug Research Centre of the MOH;
f.   Forestry Department; and
g.   Executive Coordinator (NFPCB) (Secretary).
Bogor Agricultural University will be responsible for botanical exploration
and adaptation work and the Drug Research Centre for phytochemical screening.
The coordinators of the work within each institution will represent their
respective institutions on the committee. The study will be conducted over
a three-year period. The methodology which will be followed is outlined in
Appendix 1 and the proposed budget for the study is given in Table 6.
11.       Until recently, the bulk of world production of precursors for
steroid oral contraceptives was obtained from Mexico. This source is now
diminishing because of increasing costs of the wild yams from which they are
synthesized. In consequence, pharmaceutical manufacturers, particularly in
Germany and Japan, are reported to have successfully produced precursors by
the syntheses from other raw materials such as wool scourings, and by com-
pletely synthetic methods. It may be possible that these methods will become
more generally available and prove cheaper than using botanical materials. At
present, however, no one can say whether these processes could be made avail-
able for production in Indonesia, whether the necessary raw materials are
available, what conditions in the form of patent rights would be imposed,
and what the cost would be. In the circumstances, the most prudent course
is to carry on with the study as proposed. It will be necessary, however,
for an annual review by the GOI and the Bank to determine progress made and
whether continuation is technically and economically justified. Assurances
have been given by the Government that within twenty months after the start
and within three months after the completion of the oral contraceptive raw
materials feasibility study, the GOI will submit to the Bank for review a
detailed report on: (i) the progress of the study; and (ii) the oral con-
traceptive needs and sources of supply for the national family planning pro-
gram, and will consult the Bank on the technical and economic desirability
of continuing the study.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Table 1
INDONESIA II: NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM CO,NTRACEPTIVE MIX IN
JAVA AND BALI, 1969-70 TO 1976-77/l
Year                 Total                        Contraceptive Methods (%)
New Acceptors          Oral          IUD      Condom      Others
1969-70            53,103                27.5        54.7        17.9        -
1970-71           181,276                44.1        42.2        13.7       -
1971-72           519,330                54.2        40.9         4.9        -
1972-73         1,078,899                56.3        35.2         8.0        .5
1973-74         1,369,077                62.7        21.4        15.0        .9
1974-75         1,475,016                68.5        11.3        19.2        .9
1975-76         1,785,908                67.5        12.5        19.0      1.0
1976-77         1,979,445               66.8        18.4        12.9       2.1
/1  Percentages may not add to 100 due to rounding.
Source:   National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
Table 2
INDONESIA II: ESTIMATES OF ANNUAL ORAL CONTRACEPTIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR
THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
1977-78 - 1983-84
Calendar Year         Oral Contraceptive Cycles
(in millions) -
1977-78                      36.7
1978-79                      40.8
1979-80                      43.9
1980-81                      46.9
1981-82                      50.2
1982-83                      53.3
1983-84                      56.0
/1 The figures are based on planned acceptor
targets, inflated by 20% to cover supplies
in the pipeline, losses in transit, out-
dated stocks and other contingencies.
Source:   National Family Planning Coordinating Board--
Logistics Bureau.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
Table 3
INDONESIA II: RECEIPT OF CONTRACEPTIVES, 1969-70 TO 1974-75
Agency         Year                          Contraceptive Methods
Orzcaes)     IUD             FCondom         Others
(8ycIes)
USAID
1969-70        265,000          -                1,169           2,499
1970-71      1,413,085          -                  -
1971-72      2,099,489          -                  -
1972-73      6,628,735          -                  400
1973-74     16,684,634          -               43,419
1974-75     14,639,850          -              265,741
Total       41,730,793          -              310 729
IPPF
1969-70        181,311          -                8,053           1,456
1970-71         25,020          -                  -               -
1971-72             -           -                    
1972-73             -
1973-74             -           -                  _               _
1974-75             -            -                   
Total           206,331          -               8,053           1,456
SIDA
1969-70         10,000          _                3,100          44,397
1970-71             -           -                  -               -
1971-72             -             
1972-73             -
1.973-74            -           -                  _               _
1974-75            -            -                  _               _
Total            10,000         -                3,100          44,397
UNFPA
1969-70             -           _
1970-71             -           -               25,000             -
1971-72        135,852          -                  -           105,207
1972-73 
1973-74             -
1974-75             -                            4,577
Total           135,852         -               29,577
Population
Council       1969-70             -         98,000
1970-71             -       2:36,500
1971-72             -       247,246
1972-73             -       922,850
1973-74             -       398,950
1974-75             -       293,900
Total               -     2,194_446
Source:  National Family Planning Coordinating Board - Logistics Bureau.



Table 4
INDONESIA II: USAID ORAL CONTRACEPTIVE SUPPLY SCHEDULE, 1975-77
(000 Cycles)
_ ____-      1975     _          _ _      1976          __              1977
________  _______-____      I   | II      III      IV    I       II    III    IV       I       II |II         IV
Beginning
Balance (A)                                               20,133 17,323 20,004 22,248 24,100 25,559 26,348 26,745 26,750
Scheduled Quarterly
Arrivals  (B)                                              2,563  8,446  8,400  8,400  8,398  8,120  8,120  8,120| 8,120
(Jakarta)                                 |       1        1,337  5,515  4,428  4,428  4,424  4,872  4,872  4,872  4,872
(Surabaya)                                                 1,226  2,931  3,972  3,972  3,974  3,248  3,248  3,248  3,248
_IQTAL (A and B)                                           22.696 25,769 28 404 30,648 32,498 3367934          34,85 3,870
Forecasted Quarterly
Consumption  (C)                                           5,373  5,7651 6,156  6,548  6,939  7,331  7,723  8,115  8,506
Ending
Balance  (D)                                              17,323120,004 22,248 24,100 25,559 26,348 26,745 26,750 26,364
Next Year's                        I
Reeqirement 3                   E                         25,403 26,974 28,541130,108 31,675 33,242 34,809 36,375 37,941
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.
0C



Table 5
INDONESIA II: CONTRACEPTIVE RAW MATERIAL STUDY (GENERAL SCHEDULE)
Activities                                                                                    M  o  n  t  h  s
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14  s 116 17 18 19 20 21 22 123 24 25 126 27 128 29 30 131 32 33 34 35 36
Organisation
Planning and Coordination
Exploration
- Literature Study
- Setting up Teams
|   Training                                                                                                    G                                                                    G
Adaptation
. : . .     X t 0 i 0   +    i1 0 L 0 0  X  X t 0 t u~0 
- Literature Study                                                                                                 
- Setting up of tab FacilitiesII
- Selection of Areas for Adaptation
Analysis                                                                                                           B                                                                    B
-Literature Study
-Procuring Instruments and SuppliesAA
-Setting up of Lab Facilities                                                                                  NN
-Establishing Lab Procedures                                                                                   K                                                                    K
-Training
-Fellowship Training                                                                                           E                                                                    E
Exploration Phase I                                                                                                V                                                                   V
Adaptation Phase  I                                                                                                A                                                                    A
Analysis Phaae        I                                               --          ----                               
Evaluation Fhase  I
Exploration Phase TII* --     
Adaptatton Phase  IIA
TT
Analysis Phase        II                                                                                                                                                                T
Evaluation Phase  TIII
Exploration Phase IllI 
Adaptation Phase  III                                                                                              N                                                                    N
Analysis Phase        III
Evaluation Phase  III
Final Evaluation and Development                                                                                                                                       IH         -
oQl



ANMEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA II: ORAL CONTRACEPTIVE RAW MATERIALS FEASIBILITY STUDY
I.   ORGANIZATION
Team                          Responsibility
a.   Coordinating Committee          Directing, coordinating, supervising
with Secretariat                and evaluating all research activities
undertaken by each team.
b.   Exploration Team                Inventorization, exploration and
preliminary screening of indigeneous
plants that can be raised to produce
precursors of steroid oral contra-
ceptives especially Dioscorea and
Solanacese.
c.   Adaptation Team                 Undertaking research on:
- Adaptation of non-indigeneous members
of Dioscorea and Solanacese; and
- Cultivation and product development
of chosen plants.
d.   Analytical                      Undertaking Phytochemical Analysis:
- Qualitative and Quantitative deter-
mination of steroid precursor con-
tent of indigeneous specimens iden-
tified by Exploration Team; and
- Screening and quantitative deter-
mination of steroid precursor con-
tent of promising adapted specimens.
II. COORDINATION
The coordinator, who will chair the Coordinating Committee, will be
appointed by the NFPCB. He will be responsible for organizing the
work of the advisory committee and the study:



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
a.   The Coordinating Committee will comprise -
-    BAPPENAS Representative
-    NFPCB Coordinator
-    Forestry Department Representative
-    Coordinator of Exploration and Adaptation Teams
-    Coordinator of Analysis Team
-    Executive Coordinator (NFPCB)
Secretariat will comprise two administrative assistants
and three supporting staff.
b.   The Committee will closely monitor and evaluate the
progress of the study, coordinate the implementation
of the various team activities and be responsible for
preparing reports on which the technical and economic
desirability of the study can be assessed.
c.   The Committee will administer a fellowship program of
18 man-months comprising six 3-months fellowships for
two persons from each of the teams;
d.   The study will be supported by 21 man-months of technical
assistance. Foreign advisors in the following disciplines
will be required:
i Planner and Evaluation Specialist (12 months)
1 Taxonomist (3 months)
1 Agronomist (3 months)
1 Analytical Phytochemist (3 months)
III. EXPLORATION AND ADAPTATION TEAMS (Bogor Agricultural University)
1.   Organization
The work of the Exploration and Adaptation Teams will be
coordinated by a project coordinator drawn from the Bogor
Agricultural University. In his administrative work he
will be assisted by two administrative staff. The head
of the Exploration Team will be chosen by the project
coordinator after consultation with the coordinating com-
mittee.



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
2.   Exploration Team
a.   Organization
i.   Coordinator           - Head of Exploration Team
- 4 Taxonomists and Ecologists
ii.   Exploration Teams    - 20 teams each composed of:
- 2 plant collectors
- 3 exploration assistants
- 5 specimen collectors
- 5 supporting services (laborers)
b.   Methodology
i.   Secondary Data Study   Based on available information
from different kinds of resources,
physical areas of exploration can
be roughly located.
(a) Geographical Distribution:
Areas where wild Dioscorea and Solanacese prosper
are called their geographical distribution. For
practical purposes these areas will be indicated
by provinces in Indonesia.
(b) Exploration Region:
From each province, areas covered with natural
vegetation where wild Dioscorea and Solanacese might
be found will be indicated as exploration regions.
(c) Exploration Site:
Within the exploration regions, different exploration
sites can be located.
ii.   Field Data Study        Based on the secondary data, teams
will be sent to the promising areas
for field study.
(a) Exploration Site:
Verified information can be gathered from each
province. Based on this information the exact
exploration sites can be decided.



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
(b) Observation Plot:
From each exploration a systematic sampling can be
arranged through the area. Parallel main lines can
be outlined with a distance between them of 1 km or
less.  Observation plots along the mainline can2be
established. Each plot has a size of 10 x 10 m . The
distance between plots will be 500 m or less. Each
plot will be fully studied and records taken, with
emphasis on the existing Dioscorea and Solanacese
their frequency and habitat. Specimens will be
collected.
c.   Schedule (Exploration)
i.   Preparation
(a) Literature study (3 months)
- composing field books, key for identification,
photos, drawings, etc.
- location of exploration sites.
- meeting of experts.
(b) Setting-up Exploration Team (1 month)
The Directorate-General of Forestry will co-
operate by seconding personnel and providing
facilities. A workable mechanism for field
work will be formulated.
(c) Training Exploration Team (1 month)
Plant collectors of the Exploration Team will
be trained.
ii.   Exploration (first phase)
(a) Field work (3 months)
- location of exploration sites.
- location of main lines.
- location of observation plots.
- field plot observations.
- plant collection.



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX I
Page 5
(b) Post-field work (3 months)
- plant material transportation.
- local experimental field selection.
(c) Report preparation (2 months)
- field data consolidation.
- collection identification.
- report writing.
iii.   Exploration (second phase)
(a)  Preparation                    (1 month)
(b)  Field work                     (3 months)
(c)  Post field work                (2 months)
(d)  Report preparation             (2 months)
iv.   Exploration (third phase)
(a)  Preparation                    (1 month)
(b)  Field work                     (3 months)
(c)  Post field work                (2 months)
(d)  Report preparation             (2 months)
3.   Adaptation Team
a.   Organization
The head of the Adaptation Team will be selected
by the project coordinator after consultation with
the coordinating committee. The Adaptation Team
will be set-up in Bogor Agricultural University and
will be made up as follows:
-    Head of the adaptation team
-    2 Crop physiologist/ecologist
-    2 Assistant agronomists
-    4 Field technicians plus daily paid workers
as needed (about 100 man-days per hectare
per year)



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX I
Page 6
b.   Methodology
i.   Screening Agronomic Characters
(a) Morpho-Physiological Analysis
- For growth analysis.
- for physiological index related to alkaloid
formation.
- for plant analysis.
(b)  Screening for Optimum Environment Condition
- Light quality.
- Solar energy.
- High fertilizer rate.
- Soil temperature.
- Seasonal variation.
ii.   Trial Adaptation
Trial adaptation will be undertaken in two
locations (high and low altitudes) each one
hectare in size to screen the adaptability
and growth patterns of promising specimens.
iii.   Larger Adaptation Trials
Larger adaptation trials on five hectares will
be undertaken of promising specimens from trial
adaptation studies for more detailed agronomic
studies as well as evaluation of steroid content.
c.   Schedule (Adaptation)
i.   Preparation
(a) Literature study (3 months)
- of the agronomy of the plants to be studied and
conditions for cultivation.



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 7
- setting up of plant examination facilities
(1 month).
- two areas in high and low altitudes for trial
adaptation and larger adaptation trials.
ii.   Adaptation (first phase)
(a) Screening agronomic characteristics.
(b) Trial adaptation.
(c) Larger adaptation trials.
iii.   Adaptation (second phase)
(a) Screening agronomic characteristics.
(b) Trial adaptation.
(c) Larger adaptation trials.
iv.   Adaptation (third phase)
(a) Screening agronomic characteristics.
(b) Trial adaptation.
(c) Larger adaptation trials.
IV. PHYTOCHEMICAL TEAM
1.   Organization
The Phytochemical Team will be based at the Drug Research
Centre, Ministry of Health, Jakarta, and will be made up
as follows:
-    Head of phytochemical team
-    5 Analytical and phytochemists
-    10 Analysts and assistant pharmacists
-    2 Secretarial and administrative staff
-    5 Supporting services (laborers)



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 8
2.   Methodology
a.   Qualitative screening and quantitative determination
of indigeneous steroid-precursor content of specimens
identified by exploration team.
b.   Qualitative screening and quantitative determination
of steroid-precursor content of promising adapted
specimens sent by the adaptation team.
c.   Final evaluation in terms of steroid content of indi-
geneous and adapted varieties.
3.   Schedule
a.   Preparation
i.   Literature study (2 months)
- compilation of qualitative and quantitative
determinations of Diosgenin and Solacidin as
well as its closest derivatives.
ii.   Analytical set-up (4 months)
- order and purchase of instruments and chemicals.
- preparation of reagents.
- installation and testing of instruments.
- screening and modification of analytical
procedures, training of analysts and lab-
oratory technicians.
b.   Phytochemical Analysis (first phase)
-    8 months, 2500 samples and specimens obtained
from Exploration (first phase) will be analysed.
c.   Phytochemical Analysis (second phase)
-    8 months, 4000 samples and specimens obtained
from Exploration (second phase) and Adaptation
(first phase) will be analysed.



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 9
d.   Phytochemical Analysis (third phase)
-    8 months, 3500 samples and specimens from
Exploration (third phase) and from Adaptation
(second and third phase) will be examined.
e.   Phytochemical data analysis and reporting (2 months)



Table 6(A)
INDONESIA II:  BUDGET FOR ORAL CONTRACEPTIVE RAW MATERIALS FEASIBILITY STUDY
Specifications                Project Coordinator   Inventory and        Adaptation and      Phytochemistry        Total
Exploration        Cultivation          and Syntheses
Salaries                        26,675                  11,928              80,819                53,002            172,424
Materials                         -                     27,349              66,867               187,952            282,168
Equipment                         _                    112,395              21,470               178,699            312,564
Advisors and Fellowships        72,000                  24,600              24,600                24,600            145,800
Incremental Operating
Expenditures other
than Salaries                  17,747              1,324,364              107,373                57,205         1,506,689
TOTAL                          116,422               1,500636              301_,129              501,458          2,419,645
Source: National Development and Planning Agency.
>~It~  ~
t4 I-4
H   >
10
CD.



ANNEX 10
APPENDIX 1
Page 11
Table 6(B)
INDONESIA II: CONTRACEPTIVE STUDY
EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND GOI FISCAL YEAR
(US$ OQOs)
Category                             1977-78/1   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81/2   Total
Special Equipment and Materials            100.0        400.0       95.0       -           595.0
Fellowships and Advisors                    56.0         54.0       -          36.0         146.0
Sub-Total                               156.0        454.0       95.0       36.0        741.0
Incremental Operating Costs                200.0        620.0      509.0      350.0      1,679.0
Base Cost Estimate                         356.0      1,074.0      604.0      386.0      2,420.0
/1  Start of Project:  November 1, 1977.
/2  End of Study:       October 31, 1980.



Table  1
INDONESIA II: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Category                                                        S__                  US$  (in millionaL)_                       -      _-_-
Civil   Vehicles   Special         Seminars    Surveys         Preparation       Fellowships    Incremental    Total    Percentage
Works                Equipment   and            and            and Produc-       and Advisors   Oparating
and          Workshops   Evaluation   tion of                                Costs
_    aterials                                 Training Aids      _                        __ _
NFPCB's Education and Train-               1.25        .07         .49           .20          .12              .10              .32            2.62           5.17          11.6
ing Bureau
Other Islands Provincial                   6.28        .26         .14                                                                         2.99           9.67          21.8
Training Centres
Other Islands Provincial                   3.25                    .29                                                                         3.06           6.60          14.9
Offices
Mobile Family Planning Services                      2.87          .72                                                                         9.96          13.55          30.5
Population Education                                               .10           .65          .08             1.02              .15            2.02           4.02           9.1
Community Incentive Scheme                                                                   2.34                               .10             .51           2.95           6.6
Contraceptive Study                                                 59                                                          .14            1.68           2.41           5.5
TOTAL                                     10.78      3.20         2.33           .85         2.54             1.12              .71           22.84          44.37         100.0
Contingencies                                                                                                                                                15.65
Total Project Cost                                                                                                                                           60.02
_  Z
Pj 



Table  2
INDONESIA II: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY AND GOI FISCAL YEAR
Category                                                                                      (US$  003s)                   _-
1977-78          1978-79           1979-80           1930-81           1981-82           1982-83      Total
Civil Works
Construction                                                       77.0           3,865.0          1,450.0                                                          5,39:1
Professional Fees                                                 196.0             195.0             262.o                                                            651
Furniture                                                                           565.7             243.3                                                            809.
Site Development                                                2,373.0             932.0             618.0                                                         3, 923,
Sub-Total                                                       2.646 .0          5,553.7          2,573.3                                                         10,778Q
Non-Civil Works
Vehicles                                                          160.3           2,556.4             483.3                                                          3,208.o
Special Equipment and Materials                                   185.5           1,569.3             457.2              51.1              44.1              28.8   2,336. 
Seminars and Workshops                                            107.5             300.2             329.2              44.4              44.4              24.3      85Q0.
Surveys and Evaluation                                            255.0             568.4             485.2             414.4             468.4             345.6   2,537. 0
Preparation and Production of Training Aids                       749.0             220.6              51.4              30.0              43.0              21.0   1,115.0
Fellowships and Advisors                                           116.0            237.2             169.8             136.0              44.0              11.0      714 0
Sub-Total                                                       1,573.3           5,452.1           1,976.1             675.9             643,9             430.7  1  7520
Incremental Operating Costs                                       1,368.3           3,676.3           4,883.7           5,076.2           4,897.9           2,937.6  22,840 0
Base Cost Estimate                                                5,587.6          14,687.1           9,433.1           5,752.1           5,541.8           3,368.3  44,370o.
Co.itingencies
Physical Contingencies                                            183.0             554.0             258.0                                                            990
Price Contingencies                                             1,016.9           3,526.9           3,006.3           2,215.7           2,874.0           2,016.2  14,656.0
Sub-Total                                                       1.199.9           4.080.9           3,264.3           2215.7            2,874.0           2,016.2  15.65L0
Total Estimated Proiect Costs                                     6.787.5          18,768.0          12,697.4           7,967.8           8,415.8           5,384.5  60,02LO
A    Start of Project: November 1, 1977.
End of Project  : October 31, 1982.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
INDONESIA II: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSENENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Amount (US$ 000'                         Cumulative % of
End of Quarter   Cumulative                Total Loan Amount
1977-78
June 30, 1978                       1,037             1,037                      4.2
1978-79
September 30, 1978                  1,074             2,111                      8.6
December 31, 1978                   1,209             3,320                     13.6
March 31, 1979                      3,845             7,165                     29.2
June 30, 1979                       2,659             9,824                     40.1
1979-80
September 30, 1979                  5,209            15,033                     61.4
December 31, 1979                   2,324            17,357                     70.8
March 31, 1980                      2,211            19,568                     79.9
June 30, 1980                         595            20,163                     82.3
1980-81
September 30, 1980                    592            20,755                     84.7
December 31. 1980                     283            21,038                     85.9
March 31, 1981                        318            21,356                     87.2
June 30, 1981                         283            21,639                     88.3
1981-82
September 30, 1981                    354            21,993                     89.8
December 31, 1981                     318            22,311                     91.1
March 31, 1982                        342            22,653                     92.5
June 30, 1982                         320            22,973                     93.8
1,982-83
September 30, 1982                    474            23,447                     95.8
December 31, 1982                     423            23,870                     97.4
March 31, 1983                        425            24,295                     99.2
June 30, 1983                         205            24,500                    100.0



THAILAND  -IrT5'jb                                          D'     .                         li'INDONESIAt   JEY*E 
> 11 _ >, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPIN  f 1-                                         ADAMINISTRATION AND POPULATION
8) > 5 ~~~~~~~~South   Chino   Sea  uBRUNE                                                                               W-  9l0I:IAL WU  SoE
'>9    h    >   X   i,   @   %  ULATICb DWIT PER ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-Ko~-SE KILMiE7E'
U]                                                                                                                                    I    -Qo-      AhA1R    poC///C       
12F'                                                                                                        t84!
E     ,      ,t>,ffi,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mod, ,,          
,   iii2/lf5  /  n  d  z  e  n  <)  C r2 e /1 D2 4 2 :; - iit,10; 0 loc 2a ii aXo 5pC~~~~~~~~~~ T-N T
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                     MAHERA ,  5<      1, fl c IY  c aX4o5aaT      g
a;   15   AY  J4TXSG 2 ' ' ! 17...... 0_ .,.- - . =EE tN
1 J * g   J   laD   l      .!               T,5   nW         12C               1R,0             I3Ca   4,          15    _@E._$_  tL<



