Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7307-lND
REPORT
AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SOCIAL SAFETY NET ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 600 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Environment and Social Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 16, 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupiah
1 Rupiah          = 0.00011 US$
US$1              = 8,813 Rupiah
FISCAL YEAR: April 1 to March
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ASEM      Asia Europe Meeting
AMU       Asset Management Unit
BULOG   National Food Logistics Agency
DPR       House of Representatives
IBRD      International Bank for the Reconstruction and Development
IBRA      Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INDRA    Indonesia Debt Restructuring Agency
FY        Fiscal Year
GOI       Government of Indonesia
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MPR       People's Consultative Assembly
NGO       Non-government Organization
PRSL      Policy Reform Support Loan
Rp        Rupiah
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
SCL       Single Currency Loan
SSN       Social Safety Net
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
WB        World Bank
Vice President:              Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:            Mr. Mark Baird
Sector Manager:              Ms. Kristalina Georgieva
Task Team Leader:            Mr. Lant Pritchett



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan Summary ...................................                                                   i
I.       Introduction.1..............................................................
II.      Economic Background: Crisis, Response, and Recovery ..................................................2
A. A Country In Economic Crisis .....................................................2
B.  The Government's Response .....................................................5
C.  Macroeconomic Outlook ....................................................5
D. External Financing Needs ....................................................6
IH.       The Social Crisis: Impacts, Response, and Challenges .....................................................            7
A. Food Security .....................................................8
B.  Employment Creation and Income Maintenance ..................................................9
C. Preserving Access to Critical Social Services: Education and Health .                        .......................................1  1
C. 1.    Education ....................................................11
C.2.    Health ...................................................                                                14
IV.      Bank Group Response and Interim  Assistance Strategy ...................................................                 16
V.       The Proposed Loan ...................................................                                                  18
A. Policy Actions Supported By the Loan ...................................................                            18
B.  Size, Features, and Timing ....................................................                                   23
C. Coordination and Consultation ...................................................                                  23
D. Benefits and Risks ...................................................                                             25
VI.      Recommendation ....................................................                                                    27
ANNEXES
ANNEX I:              Statement of Development Policy: Social Safety Net Programn
ANNEX II:             Policy Matrix For Social Safety Adjustment Loan
ANNEX III:    A: Indonesia At A Glance
B: Indonesia: Key Economic And Exposure Indicators
C: Balance of Payments
ANNEX IV:             Status of the Bank Group Operations In Indonesia
ANNEX V:              Consultation: Strategy and Progress
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET ADJUSTMENT LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower        Republic of Indonesia
Amount          US$ 600 million
Terms           Single currency loan (SCL) in US dollars for 15 years, standard amortization terms,
grace period and interest rate for fixed-rate US dollar SCLs with an expected
disbursement period of one year or less.
Description     This proposed Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL) would provide balance
of payments and budgetary assistance to the Republic of Indonesia in support of
improvements in the functioning of the country's social safety net operations
through policy reforms and actions in two areas:
*  safeguarding key safety net programs; and
* improving program design.
Social safety net (SSN) budget expenditures crucial to the poor have been protected
through policy agreements under the Bank's proposed Second Policy Support
Reform Loan (PRSL II).
In response to the economic crisis, the Government created emergency programs in
three areas to help protect the poor:
* Ensuring the availability of food at affordable prices for the poor;
* Supplementing purchasing power among poor households through employment
creation and support to small and medium-sized enterprises; and
-  Preserving access to critical social services.
These programs have achieved some early success, but have suffered from
implementation delays, fund leakage, budget allocation issues, and inadequate or
inappropriate design. The new fiscal year, which began April 1, 1999, provided an
opportunity for the Government to reconsider SSN funding allocations,
safeguarding provisions, and program design. Building from a foundation of
budget allocations which represent a more appropriate and feasible response to the
crisis, the Government is carrying out a set of policy actions that will re-enforce the
social safety net to protect the poor and others suffering from the crisis.
To safeguard key programs, the proposed loan would support the creation of an
overarching national structure with three major components: a government team, a
joint government and civil society effort in a "control team" and a completely
independent civil society monitoring function. This structure is putting in place
measures that heighten and broaden monitoring efforts to ensure programs are
implemented as designed, including timely delivery of benefits and fighting
corruption within these safety net programs.  This unique and innovative



iii
combination of government and civil society efforts would oversee the
implementation, together with the line ministries, of a five-fold strategy for each of
the "key" SSN programs.
The five SSN program elements of safeguarding plan for each key SSN program
are (i) internal monitoring and operational controls including monthly reports to the
oversight group and control team, (ii) independent verification of program
performance and monitoring reports, (iii) campaigns to reach the grass roots level
with information about program design, budget and the channel for complaints, (iv)
a complaint resolution mechanism that would be supervised by the control team;
and (v) civil society involvement at every level of monitoring.
To improve the design of programs the proposed loan would support better
geographical targeting and application of international best practice, taking into
account field-based evaluations of on-going activities, so that the poor are more
effectively reached. These would apply to fiscal year (FY) 1999/2000 programs
and programs carried over from FY 1998/1999.
The proposed loan forms an integral part of the Bank's interim Country Assistance
Strategy for the next 12-18 months which is focused on three objectives:
*  Ensuring short-term stabilization, through bank and corporate restructuring and
by restoring macroeconomic stability;
*  Building institutionalfoundations for a sustainable growth; and
*  Reinforcing the social safety net to protect Indonesia's poor and near poor and
to maintain investments in human capital.
The proposed operation is part of an integrated package of adjustment operations to
support these objectives. A companion operation, processed in parallel, the
proposed PRSL II which would support corporate restructuring and banking sector
reforms, strengthen macroeconomic stabilization and build a foundation for
renewed growth by implementing actions that reduce corruption and increase the
transparency and efficiency of public and private sector activities. The PRSL II
continues the agenda of the two-tranche, one billion dollar Policy Reform Support
Loan, approved in July 1998, which supported the Government's overall reform
program. A proposed Water Resources Management Sector Adjustment Loan is
intended to support improvements in the institutions and policies for managing a
key natural resource.
Benefits         There are three major benefits to the proposed operation:
*  The first and most obvious benefit is an improvement in the degree to which
the poor can cope with the ongoing crisis through several mechanisms: less
misuse of funds so that programs work more effectively, better targeting and
design, and less delay.
*  The second is the benefit of the financing, providing budget support that allows
the Government to fund the SSN programs and fiscal stimulus to the economy
to accelerate overall economic recovery, which ultimately is the most effective
safety net, without macroeconomic imbalances.



lv
* The third benefit is the innovation of the joint involvement of civil society and
government in monitoring of safety net programs. This would serve as a
vanguard in redefining the relationship between government and civil society --
people are empowered by increased transparency and better checks and
balances. This is moving to national and program wide scale techniques of
information and community involvement that have shown promising results in
earlier Bank operations.
Risks            The risks specific to the proposed operation include:
*  The resources and powers granted to the oversight group or control team are
insufficient to carry out its mandate;
*  Civil society and NGOs are reluctant to participate in the SSN monitoring
program due to lack of credibility of GOI efforts and/or the appearance of
supporting the existing regime; and
* Insufficient Government commitment to policies supported by this loan leading
to lack of follow through and failure to safeguard programs
These risks have been mitigated by the proposed loan's two tranche design, with
disbursement of the second tranche dependent on program performance and the
evidence of transparent operation of programs and follow-through on complaint
resolution.
The first tranche would be released following the creation of the mechanisms
including civil society participation, allocation of budgets, and design of programs
that, together, create the means for a reinforced safety net. The second tranche
would be released principally against evidence that programs are, in fact, helping
the poor. In addition, technical assistance is being provided bilaterally by donors to
facilitate implementation and independent monitoring of social safety net programs.
Prominent civil society groups continue to be skeptical of Government's
commitment to giving them a substantial role in safeguarding social safety net
programs. However, during the preparation of the proposed loan there has been
extensive dialogue with key NGOs, opposition groups, and mass based
organizations (see Annex V).
The biggest risks are general and beyond the proposed operation, as the Bank's
entire assistance strategy is subject to considerable risk and uncertainty. While
indications of economic stabilization are starting to emerge, much will depend on
continued implementation of the economic reform program and regaining public
confidence through a transparent, credible process of political transition and
developing a sound, modern governance framework. Five major risks could
undermine effectiveness:
*  Uncertainty associated with political transition.
* The possibility of Government paralysis on reform as political pressures and
campaign pressures interfere with decision making.
* Continued fragility of the banking system and pressure for rising Government



v
expenditures possibly undermining the commitment to prudent fiscal
management.
* The possibility of social unrest due to rising unemployment, increasing prices
and falling real incomes.
* Limitations in administrative capacity, coupled with opposition from vested
interests.
The implementation of the policies and institutional reforms supported by the
proposed operation should help to mitigate these risks by providing sufficient, and
sufficiently visible and credible, safety net actions which would reduce social
tension and provide an environment conducive to economic recovery and a smooth
political transition.  With elections scheduled for June 1999, the transition
government is motivated to push ahead with economic recovery and maintain social
stability. It is receiving broad-based support from the IMF, Bank and ADB who
helped design a comprehensive reform program and are providing substantial
external financing. Regular reviews help to keep the reform program on track and
adjusted to the changing landscape. Recent sustained appreciation of the rupiah
gives reason for optimism.
Nevertheless, political uncertainties remain paramount in determining the
magnitude of these risks. With relatively open elections for the first time in more
than 30 years scheduled for June 7, 1999, it is unclear which political coalition will
emerge as the country's new leadership. The credibility of the next government will
depend on the public's perception of fairness in the election process.
Poverty          N.A.
Category
Disbursements   The loan would be disbursed in two equal tranches, the first upon effectiveness and
the second upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions.
Project ID      ID-BB-63939
Number
Project Team     Lant Pritchett (Task Team Leader), Sarah Cliffe, Laura Cooley, Stephen Dice,
Margaret Grosh, Max Iacono, Alex Irwan, Sandy Lieberman, Paul McCarthy,
Patrick Meager, Stephen Mink, Jessica Poppele, Isono Sadoko, Haneen Sayed,
Mike Shone, Andrea Silverman, Jerry Strudwick, Anthony Toft, Kumar
Upadhyaya.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A SOCIAL SAFETY NET ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$600 MILLION TO TIE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.1    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Social Safety
Net Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Indonesia to reinforce the Government's social safety net
programs. The proposed SSNAL would provide balance of payments and budgetary assistance to the
Republic of Indonesia in support of improvements in the functioning of the country's social safety net
operations through policy reforms and actions in two areas: (i) safeguarding key safety net programs, and
(ii) improving program design. Social safety net (SSN) budget expenditures crucial to the poor have been
protected through policy agreements under the Bank's proposed Second Policy Support Reform Loan
(PRSL II) as part of agreement on an appropriate development budget.
1.2   In response to the economic crisis, the Government created emergency programs in three areas to
help protect the poor:
*  Ensuring the availability of food at affordable prices for the poor;
*  Supplementing purchasing power among poor households through employment creation and
support to small and medium-sized enterprises; and
*  Preserving access to critical social services.
1.3    These programs have achieved some early success, but suffer from implementation delays, fund
leakage, budget allocation issues, and inadequate or inappropriate design. The new fiscal year, which
began April 1, 1999, provided an opportunity to reconsider SSN funding allocations, safeguarding
provisions and program design. Building from a foundation of budget allocations which represent a more
reasonable and feasible response to the crisis, the Government is carrying out a set of policy actions that
will re-enforce the social safety net to protect the poor and others suffering from the crisis.
1.4   To safeguard key programs, the proposed loan would support the creation of a national
overarching structure with three major components: a government team, a joint government and civil
society effort in a "control team", and a completely civil society monitoring function. This structure is
putting in place measures that deepen and broaden monitoring efforts to ensure programs are
implemented as designed, including timely delivery of benefits and fighting corruption within these safety
net programs. This innovative combination of government and civil society efforts would oversee the
implementation, together with the line ministries, of a five-fold strategy for each of the key programs.
1.5    The five SSN program elements of safeguarding which would be implemented in each of the Key
SSN programs are (i) internal monitoring and operational controls including monthly reports to the
oversight group and control team, (ii) independent verification of program performance and monitoring
reports, (iii) campaigns to reach the grass roots level with information about program design, and budget
and the channel for complaints, (iv) a complaint resolution mechanism that would be supervised by the
control team; and (v) civil society involvement at every level of monitoring.



2
1.6   To improve the design of programs the proposed loan would support better geographical
targeting and application of best practice, taking into account field-based evaluations of on-going
activities, so that the poor are more effectively reached. These would apply to FY99/00 programs and
programs rolled over from FY98/99.
1.7   The proposed loan forms an integral part of the Bank's interim Country Assistance Strategy,
discussed by the Board on March 9, 1999, for the next 12-18 months which is focused on three
objectives:
*  Ensuring short-term stabilization, through bank and corporate restructuring and by restoring
macroeconomic stability;
*  Building institutionalfoundations for a sustainable growth; and
*  Reinforcing the social safety net to protect Indonesia's poor and near poor and to maintain
investments in human capital.
1.8   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy focuses in the immediate term on financial and technical
resources to support social safety nets, the financial sector and corporate restructuring mainly through
quick disbursing adjustment operations and technical assistance lending. In the next 12 to 18 months,
program emphasis will shift increasingly to support of structural reforms in key sectors (public sector
management, in water, agriculture, urban, energy) and to scaled-back investment lending in a core
program emphasizing poverty reduction, human resource development and infrastructure maintenance.
1.9   The proposed operation is part of an integrated package of adjustment operations to support these
objectives. A companion operation, processed in parallel, the proposed PRSL II, which would support
corporate restructuring and banking sector reforms, strengthen macroeconomic stabilization and build a
foundation for renewed growth by implementing actions that reduce corruption and increase the
transparency and efficiency of public and private sector activities. The PRSL II continues the agenda of
the two-tranche, one billion dollar Policy Reform Support Loan, approved in July 1998, which supported
the Government's overall reform program. A proposed Water Resources Management Sector Adjustment
Loan is intended to support improvements in the institutions and policies for managing a key natural
resource. Together these proposed operations would commit $2.4 billion in adjustment loans to GOI
between July 1998 and June 1999.
II.    ECONOMIC BACKGROUND: CRISIS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY
2.1    This section describes the background economic environment for an adjustment loan, including
the economic crisis and the policy response, the macroeconomic outlook and prospects, and the need for
quick disbursing assistance. The social impacts and response will be described in the next section.
A.    A Country in Economic Crisis
2.2   Indonesia, a country of 200 million people (the fourth-largest in the world), is in the throes of a
staggering economic crisis. Just eighteen months ago, the country was enjoying its 30th year of virtually
uninterrupted rapid growth, low inflation and declining poverty. Trade and capital flows were booming,
and the fiscal accounts were satisfactory.



3
The US dollar equivalent value of the stock exchange fell by more than 90 percent at its lowest point.
Foreign creditors have withdrawn, and investors have retreated. Capital and entrepreneurs have fled.
Interest rates rose sharply and inflation rose to 80 percent.
2.4    Although the Thai crisis may have been the trigger, internal and external conditions combined to
move Indonesia's problems from foreign contagion to macro collapse. The proximate causes of the crisis
were the rapid build-up of short-term, unhedged private external debt in recent years combined with
long-standing-and long recognized-shortcomings in Indonesia's banking system. Unfortunately, at the
same time, Indonesia was hit by arguably the worst drought this century, and, as the crisis continued, by a
collapse in regional demand, and the lowest international oil prices in decades. What made Indonesia's
crisis so much worse than other East Asian countries were critically weak institutions and endemic
corruption, at a time of high political uncertainty, as it became increasingly clear that the Soeharto era
was drawing to a close.
2.5   Indonesia's economy has exhibited encouraging improvement in macroeconomic indicators since
the middle of 1998. The rupiah appreciated by 50 percent (from around Rp. 15,000 per US dollar in early
June, 1998, to about Rp. 7,500 per US dollar in early December), though it has since weakened to
between Rp.8,500 and Rp. 9,000 per US dollar. This is still a 70 percent nominal depreciation from its
July 1997 level. After rising by 75 percent during the first 9 months of 1998, the consumer price index
has only risen by 4 percent during the six months to March, 1999. Interest rates fell during the four
months from September, 1998 to January 1999, but have been in the range of 35-40 percent since then.
2.6    The trade balance reached $17.4 billion for the first ten months of FY98/99 (compared with
$11.5 billion for the corresponding period in FY97/98), largely due to a 35 percent decline in imports.
This fall in import value was a combination of roughly similar falls in volume and average unit values.
Export earnings also contracted, despite significant real depreciation and compression in domestic
demand. During the first 10 months of FY98/99, the US dollar value of exports was 13 percent less than
for the same period in FY97/98; largely due to a fall in prices of oil and other products. The current
account surplus of the balance of payments is estimated to be 4.1 percent of GDP in FY1998/99. The
capital account is expected to post a modest net inflow in FY1998/99, but only because large public
sector borrowing (disbursements of about $15 billion in FY98/99) will more than offset debt repayments
and continued private sector outflows.
2.7    However, corporations and households are still under severe strain, and recovery is likely to be a
lengthy process. Data for the fourth quarter of 1998 indicates that nearly half of Indonesian private
corporations are technically insolvent, as are most Indonesian banks. High interest rates, a moribund
banking system, crushing corporate external debt, and an adverse external environment have combined to
exert continued contractionary pressure on domestic economic activity. GDP fell by 15.6 percent in
1998/99 and recovery is now unlikely until late 1999 or the year 2000. Agriculture, especially tree crops,
and mining are the only sectors that appear to have avoided contraction.
2.8    The social impacts of Indonesia's crisis are serious and of great concern. But recent evidence
suggests that they are less nation-wide and more complex and heterogeneous than thought earlier. While
some of the poor are doing worse, others appear to be better off. Many of the newly emergent urban
middle classes are hit the worst of all. People on Java and in urban areas appear to have been the worst
hit and are bearing the brunt of the crisis. People with less linkage to the formal economy, in the outer
islands or involved with the production of export commodities (e.g. Sulawesi, Sumatra) have experienced
less adverse effects. Given the focus of this crisis on financial markets, this is not surprising. Overall,



4
Figure 1. Recent Economic development
Rupiah relatively stabile following partial recovery                                          Inflation declining
(Daily Rupiah per USS spot rate)                          (12 month percentage change in Consumer & Food Price Index)
1O0                                                              140
I         .1o l ll1 ,   1       I          i   il,l     
a-4& 4e417  vo- G       0 - .       -                                                                          120
2,000  .....2,000
3'000 -                                                      3,000
4000 -                                                     4,000       100                                Food Price                     100
5,000                       L                               5,000
6,000                       '                               6,000
7,000                                                       7,000        o
8,000                                                       8,000
9l000                                                       9,000        60                                               General CP      60
10,000                          I                             10,000
11,000                          I                             11,000
izOOr -12,000                                                             40 -                                                             40
13,000                                                      - 13,000
14,000                                                        14,000
15,000                                                        15000       20                                                               2
16,000                                                      -16000
17,000 o                         '     , .
18,000                                                        18,000        >             GQ
RuplahWUS$                 T;   -    -    -    -         
-           m                z   =      = ,    =    O=
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Trade performance deteriorating                                        Interest rates declining but still high
(Nominal monthly export and import in US$ million)                                   (Overnight interbank call rate)
5000                                                                     120%
110% 
4500  Export                                                             100%
2\i we\ < 5 24@lh~~~~~~~~~90%j2
4000                                                                      90 3
80%A
3500  .......                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~701%
60%
3000                                                                      50%
40%
2500
....... ..30%
2000                                       ,*20%
10%
1500                                                                       0%
<~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                             o    a,       a    °   C  °,  °,  a,  °   ,   Z,   C   a0_,>rf
Stock market showing new life                               Depositors confidence in private banks recovering
(Jakarta Stock Exchange Index)                           marginally (Ratio of deposits in private national banks to
deposits in total commercial banks)
750                                                                      65
S50                                                                      60
550                                                                      55
450                                                                      50
350                                                                      45-
250                                                                      40                     a
e~ a,             a                           a,O    C   o   ,      O   ,    a,   a,        a,   C    o     ,    a         a    ooooao



5
these preliminary and partial new data suggest that poverty has increased from about 10 percent in 1997
to between 14 and 20 percent in 1998.
B.    The Government's Response
2.9    To deal with and mitigate the ill effects of the current crisis, the authorities are implementing a
four-pronged approach towards policy and institutional reforms in Indonesia:
*  Stabilize the exchange rate and prices, and stimulate domestic demand, through a judicious
combination offiscal and monetary policies;
*  Bank and corporate restructuring to resolve bad debt, restore effective banking services, re-
establish corporate creditworthiness and get productive assets back to work;
* Reforming and building institutions to improve governance, and to increase transparency and
efficiency;
* Protection for the poor and preservation of human assets.
2.10   Specific strategies and programs under this agenda have been designed and progressively refined
throughout 1998 in collaboration with the World Bank, the IMF and the ADB to tailor new policy
initiatives to evolving economic and social difficulties.
2.11   The first three of these items are presented in detail in Memorandum of the President for the
proposed companion Second Policy Reform Support Loan. The actions to protect the poor and preserve
human assets are described in the following section: The Social Crisis: Impacts, Response, and
Challenges.
C.    Macroeconomic Outlook
2.12   Notwithstanding encouraging recent macroeconomic development, Indonesia's short-term
economic prospects remain gloomy. They are weighed down by the fragility of the current political
environment and the attendant risk of social unrest, the depth of the financial sector crisis, and the burden
of corporate debt.
2.13   FY1998/99. GDP declined by 15.6 percent, in FY1998/99. This decline is most pronounced in
the construction sector (40 percent), financial services (27 percent) and the trade, hotel and restaurant
sector (21 percent), but all sectors, except mining and agriculture, have experienced a significant decline.
Domestic demand has imploded and export growth has failed to offset this. Slow disbursement of
government expenditures has delayed the planned fiscal stimulus. Non-oil export earnings fell by 8.8
percent, in spite of the massive depreciation. A fall in oil prices has reduced oil export earnings by about
40 percent. Lower prices for other commodities such as timber and coffee have also reduced export
revenues. Major buyers of Indonesian products are nervous about delivery and potential new exporters
face problems in arranging finance at reasonable cost and gaining access to containers and shipping. The
implosion in domestic demand has sharply reduced merchandise imports (by a projected24 percent in US
dollars), and leading to a sharp expansion in the trade surplus. As a result, the current account deficit of
1.1 percent of GDP in 1997/98 is likely to be transforrned into a surplus of about 4.1 percent of GDP in
FY98/99. The capital account of the balance of payments is expected to have posted a deficit of $2.7
billion (excluding IMF purchases) in FY1998/99, with large inflows of official support being offset by
even larger net private capital outflows and debt service payments.



6
2.14   FY1999/2000. In the face of ongoing banking sector problems, corporate dislocation, depressed
international prices and sustained downward pressure on domestic demand due to lower real incomes and
dwindling household reserves, it is unrealistic to expect positive growth in FY1999/2000. The base case
scenario is for a one percent contraction of real GDP, but there is admittedly substantial uncertainly
surrounding this estimate, especially in light of political events (See Key Indicators Table-Annex 3).
Export earnings are expected to increase by a modest 6.0 percent, as prices are likely to remain depressed
and the factors that have impeded export growth in the second half of FY98/99 persist. Export-related
activities are expected to expand but this is likely to be offset by further declines for those dependent on
the domestic market. Imports volumes are expected to increase modestly (about 6 percent) as inventories
have been depleted and rising exports will generate increased demand for imports. The net result is an
expected current account surplus on the balance of payments to about $4 billion (2.4 percent of GDP).
2.15   The key to the capital account of the balance of payments will remain private capital flows.
These crucially depend on investor confidence and perceptions regarding political reforms and social
stability. Even if the upcoming elections pass peacefully and the country is not rocked by social unrest, it
is likely to take considerable time before Indonesia will see a sizable return of flight capital. Therefor a
modest capital account deficit in FY1999/2000 is likely. Gross reserves of about $25.8 billion in March
1999 (net reserves of $15.8 billion, with drawings from the IMF accounting for most of the difference
between the two) are projected to increase by about $3 billion and remain above 7 months of imports of
goods and non factor services in FYI 999/2000.
2.16   FY2000/01. Provided a successful political transition is concluded, social unrest wanes, and the
policy reforms supported by this proposed operation and its companion, the PRSL II, are sustained,
Indonesia should achieve renewed growth in FY2000/01. Indonesia is endowed with a rich natural
resource base, a potentially large domestic, market, an industrious and educated people, and a
considerable stock of physical infrastructure. Potential bright spots in the economy that are likely to
underpin renewed growth include the agriculture sector, labor-intensive export manufactured goods,
minerals production (such as copper, coal, gold, tin, and nickel) and tourism. These strengths give reason
for optimism over Indonesia's prospects for the medium term. But growth is still likely to be modest at
first, with a rate of about 3 percent likely in FY2000/01. Investment will begin to recover and export
growth will accelerate. But even more rapid growth of imports, for both renewed investment and for
consumption, is likely to cause the current account surplus on the balance of payment to begin to decline.
2.17   The debt service ratio (DSR) is expected to drop from 38 percent in FY98 to about 37 percent in
FY99 and 34 percent in FY2000, largely because of debt rescheduling. In the base-case (or most likely)
scenario, total external debt is projected to decline slightly from about US$151 billion in March 1999 to
US$138 billion by March 2001.
D.    External Financing Needs
2.18   The proposed financing under this adjustment operation is critical for Indonesia to continue
strategic social programs, sustain human and physical investments, recapitalize banks and provide a fiscal
stimulus without risking renewed inflationary pressures. The budget gap in need of financing is now
estimated to be 4.7 percent of GDP for FY98/99, and a similar amount for FYl999/2000. Financing the
fiscal deficit with foreign borrowing is important to avoid the upward pressure that domestic borrowing
would put on interest rates and inflation.
2.19   Disbursement of government expenditures was very slow through the first half of FY98/99, but
accelerated in the second half. In particular, social safety net expenditures for the first 9 months of the
fiscal year amounted to only 37 percent of the annual budget. However, as disbursement rates have been
rising and the fiscal year for social safety net expenditure has been extended by three months, it now



7
seems likely that these disbursements will be made. In fact, there seems to be just as much uncertainty
about the possibility of achieving revenue targets as expenditure ones, as economic contraction casts
doubt on corporate and value added taxes collections. On balance, the fiscal deficit is likely to be at least
4.7 percent of GDP, thus creating a need for external financing of $10 billion in FY1998/99.
2.20   This external financing is also needed to rebuild external reserves and help ease pressure on the
rupiah arising from large private capital outflows and debt servicing. A strong reserve position is needed
to cover short term debt obligations and provide adequate comfort in provisioning against possible short-
term domestic and external risks in the economy. Domestic uncertainties include the degree of severity
of the still unfolding economic impact of financial and corporate sector distress, and the political
environment that will influence the speed of reforms in Indonesia. External risks arise from the ongoing
regional crisis, low commodity prices, and a loss of investor confidence.
2.21   Private foreign financing options are limited and relatively expensive, and export earnings have
been constrained by the regional crisis and by adverse price movements. Moreover, private capital is
typically relatively short-term and Indonesia needs to lengthen the average maturity profile of foreign
liabilities.
2.22   Indonesia faces medium term amortization payments (public and private) of $13-15 billion a
year. Rescheduling of $4.6 of bilateral debt has been achieved under the Paris Club, but export credit
agencies remain reluctant to advance large new credits. And the need to restructure debts with foreign
bank creditors may hamper Indonesia's ability to access new private finance for some time. Bond
markets, likewise, are likely to remain wary of new Indonesian issues, at least in the near future.
Furthermore, any renewed access to international capital markets is likely to be at significantly higher
cost than in the past. Borrowing costs via Indonesia's traded eurobonds have increased (from 120 basis
points in mid-1997 to around 1,750 basis points in mid-October 1998).  Rating agencies have
downgraded the country - Moody's to B3, a downgrade of 6 notches, and Standard and Poor's to CCC+,
a downgrade of 8 notches.
Im.   THE SOCIAL CRISIS: IMPACTS, RESPONSE, AND CHALLENGES
3.1    While the crumbling of business empires and tycoons losing fortunes attract media attention, the
great tragedy of the Indonesian crisis is its effect on the poor and vulnerable and its shock to those who
comprised Indonesia's emerging middle class. Even if the Government is able to keep the stabilization
and restructuring processes on track, the poor and near poor will not escape the brutality of lost jobs and
stagnant wages as prices rise. Since the early 1970s nearly 40 percent of the population had been lifted
out of absolute poverty, life expectancy had increased by 17 years, infant mortality had fallen by over 60
percent, and nearly universal primary school enrollment had been achieved. But long-term progress
along all these fronts is now at risk; and short-term reversals are a near certainty.
3.2    While the Government's widely cited projection that poverty rates will reach 40 percent is
unsound and overstates the impact of the crisis, the poverty impact and human suffering will be severe.
There are no finalized or official data yet, but, based on available data, Bank projections indicate that
poverty could increase from about 10 percent in 1997 to between 15 and 20 percent in 1999, affecting
almost 30 to 40 million people. Moreover, the poverty line is not a magic divider, with suffering only on
one side. There are millions of near-poor Indonesians, with incomes just above the poverty line whose
incomes and livelihoods are also in jeopardy. As the impacts of the drought have faded, the crisis is
increasingly affecting the urban areas, with the urban poor and near-poor suffering disproportionately for
the first time in many years.



8
3.3    During the transition to renewed growth, the Government is committed to protecting the poor and
others suffering from the harshest effects of the crisis. The Government's response (as detailed in its
Letter of Development Policy, Annex I) is structured around three dimensions of the impact:
*  Food security, with efforts to ensure the availability of food at affordable prices;
*  Employment and income maintenance, with programs to supplement purchasing power among
poor households through employment creation and by support to small and medium-sized
enterprises and cooperatives; and
*  Preserving access to critical social services, particularly education and health.
3.4    Within each of these areas, the next section outlines the crisis impact, the Government's response,
World Bank support and the challenges that need to be faced.
A.    Food Security
3.5    Crisis Impact. The consumer price index rose by 78 percent in 1998, while food and rice prices
soared by 118 and 136 percent, respectively, in the same period. The price of rice in Jakarta rose from
less than 2,500 rupiah per kilogram to more than 3,500 Rp/kg in August 1998 alone as Government
abandoned its attempts to subsidize market prices for rice. Rice prices have begun to decline over the
past two months in response to the main harvest, but remain a particular concern since the poorest spend
over 70 percent of their budget on food and nearly 25 percent on rice. While many rural residents benefit
from food price increases, the new urban poor (such as laid-off construction workers) and landless rural
laborers are particularly hard hit - a 30 percent increase in rice prices means a 10 percent decline in their
real income. Stabilizing the price of rice and targeting food aid to the poorest are, therefore, a top priority
in mitigating the impact of the crisis on the poor.
3.6    Government Response. The Government has taken several steps to guard against household food
insecurity. These included an increase in public rice imports last year to make up for production
shortfalls in the FY97/98 crop year, increasing input and credit subsidies to food crop production to boost
supply, and shifting from general rice price subsidization to a new targeted rice subsidy program in July
1998. The Government has also opened rice trade to permit imports by private traders, but such
transactions have so far been small. It is now tackling improvements in targeting and expansion to poor
urban households who have so far not been adequately reached.
3.7    The targeted rice program was reaching 9.7 million rural and urban poor households by February
1999. Under the program, 20 kgs of rice per month (increased from 10 kg/mo in December 1998) are
sold at a highly subsidized price (Rp. 1,000/kg) to eligible households. Independent monitoring of the
program by NGOs, student groups and universities has been encouraged by the Government. Guidelines
were provided to local governments to establish basic standards and methods for a cycle of monitoring
reports and these were prepared and presented at a March 1999 workshop with recommendations feeding
into Government's redesign of the program for the coming year.
3.8    Bank Support. The Bank has played a central role in assisting the Government to monitor the
social impact of the food situation and to coordinate an effective response. This role will continue, and
focus on: (i) close monitoring of the adequacy of domestic food availability as this is affected by
domestic production, import, price and BULOG market interventions; (ii) assistance with design and
delivery mechanism improvements in the targeted rice subsidy program; (iii) effective transition to
private participation in food commodity imports and re-establishment of a domestic marketing
environment favorable to private trader participation; (iv) reforming BULOG to focus its activities on the



9
procurement and delivery of subsidized rice to targeted poor households; (v) protecting purchasing power
of consumers.
3.9    The Bank assisted earlier in the crisis with donor coordination on food security activities. It
prompted a meeting in April 1998 to coordinate donor aid that is being used for food-for-work and labor
intensive work programs in drought affected areas of the country. This coordination role has now shifted
to the World Food Program.
3.10   Challenges. The main challenge facing the targeted rice subsidy program is to define the scope
for its operation during the new Government fiscal year. The program was initially defined as a
temporary intervention through March 1999, when it was expected that the main rice harvest would begin
to reach market and change the magnitude of the household food insecurity problem. It is now
recognized that protraction of the economic downturn and unemployment will keep a large number of
households vulnerable to food insecurity over a longer period of time, that the rice subsidy program is an
effective mechanism for reaching these households, and that designed modifications are possible to
improve the implementation and impact of the program.
3.11   Design modifications to improve the program were identified from ongoing rapid field appraisals
(by Bank-sponsored investigators, and others), consultant inputs and monitoring by both Government and
independent groups. The main focus of modifications is on extension of access to the program in urban
areas but limitation of its future reach in rural areas, where the food supply situation is improving with the
current rice harvest, with tightening of eligibility criteria. Expansion of the program's reach in urban and
peri-urban areas is needed to reach poor migrants households and individuals who do not hold official
residency cards and who have to date largely been excluded from the program. Only about five percent
of the current program beneficiaries are urban. A pilot is underway to test alternative approaches to
identifying and reaching this population in cooperation with NGOs and the World Food Program.
Eligibility criteria for the overall program are being focused more narrowly on economic parameters that
are linked with food insecurity.
3.12   Further, public information and documentation on the program has improved, but could be
further strengthened particularly with regards to information that could be provided to beneficiaries and
local Government officials describing the program scope, duration, mechanisms and eligibility and local
allocations. Independent monitoring of the program also needs to continue.
B.    Employment Creation and Income Maintenance
3.13   Crisis impacts. As the economy has contracted, the demand for labor has fallen. Whilst this has
resulted in highly visible layoffs in the construction and manufacturing sectors, "unemployment" is not
the right lens for viewing the impact of the crisis on the poor.  Model-driven estimates that
unemployment may reach 15% nationwide in 1999 are misleading. With limited savings and few public
sector safety nets, people cannot afford to be unemployed. Indonesia's flexible labor markets have at
least partially translated the problem of falling demand for labor from one of "unemployment" to one of
falling real wages and purchasing power.
3.14   The impact of the crisis on labor markets and household incomes is far from uniform
geographically. In urban areas and parts of rural Java, real wages have clearly fallen drastically, there is
an apparent increase in the mobilization of household labor to compensate (women and children
working), and open unemployment has appeared. In rural areas, however, early survey results and
supervision reports show a rise in real mean household income and average stocks of household assets
over the previous year, together with tight labor markets.



10
3.15   The differential impact on women and men is ambiguous, but it is clear that 40 percent of those
who are recorded as newly unemployed are women. Unskilled men suffered from the sharp contraction
in the construction industry, whilst women are disproportionately represented in layoffs from certain
manufacturing sub-sectors such as textiles.
3.16   Government response.  The Government's program for supplementing the income of poor
households may, for convenience, be divided into four types of intervention: (i) labor-intensive public
works, or padat karya, which have been substantially expanded in response to the crisis; (ii) new
"community funds" (demand-driven projects in poorer areas) with open menus; (iii) vocational training,
enterprise development and job placement for the skilled unemployed; (iv) credit schemes and other
policies to engender small and medium enterprise recovery. The total public budget for the programs in
these categories (excluding credit to SMEs) amounted to Rp. 4.9 billion in FY98199, and it is estimated
that an additional 20 percent of transfers to local government may be also used for local initiatedpadat
karya activities.
3.17   Bank response. In the area of traditional labor-intensive works, the Bank has assisted in
financing short-term padat karya programs through loan amendments to existing projects in the urban,
rural and transport sectors.  The Bank has also supported the community fund model, through
accelerating approval of the Kecamatan Development Project, using cost-savings from the rupiah
depreciation to extend the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) for an extra year and expand VIP II to
include 3,000 villages, and negotiating a new Urban Poverty Project which would be supported by IDA to
support local infrastructure works and economic activities in poor urban areas on Java. ADB has taken
the lead on support to small and medium enterprises, and the Bank is therefore not directly active in this
area.
3.18   Challenges. Whilst enormous efforts were made in the final months of the FY98/99 fiscal year to
accelerate disbursement, widen coverage and improve targeting in this area of the safety net program,
major challenges remained. These included:
* Balancing pressure to disburse with effective controls. Resources devoted to monitoring vary
widely among the different projects, and several programs have not had the type of internal
oversight and control desirable in projects of this scale. This created a particular need for
thorough, comprehensive and independent monitoring, both through tightened internal oversight
and wider civil society involvement.
*  Matching instruments to objectives. The FY98/99 programs provided for both traditional labor-
intensive works and community funds in all regions of the country. Yet these are appropriate to
different objectives. Labor-intensive works function well as a response to unemployment, but are
a less-than-ideal response in structurally poor areas where demand for labor is currently high due
to booming agricultural output. In contrast, community funds work particularly well in enabling
flexible, community-driven solutions to structural poverty, but may be less successful at
absorbing large numbers of under-employed workers in a short time scale, or providing
sufficiently large amounts of income support to individual households to act as a true safety net.
* Matching budget allocations to institutional capacity. The Government deserves enormous credit
for acting quickly to expand budget allocations to the safety net. Yet this also created concerns
regarding limited absorptive capacity, and the potential for spiraling leakage as budgets increase.
There was a substantial increase in the overall budget for the safety-net programs in the FY98/99
financial year. For example, the budget for community funds rose from less than Rp. 300 billion
in FY96/97 to Rp. 2.5 trillion in FY98/99, an eightfold increase. This put pressure on local
institutions, and increased the risk of leakage through heightened incentives for the capture of



I1
local planning processes by non-poor interests. In addition, the use of local and community
institutions, which were seen as politically controlled from above, to screen proposals was widely
criticized in FY98/99. For the FY99/00 program, a broader forum will screen proposals.
*  Improving design. The FY98/99 programs were designed under considerable pressure for quick
delivery, and as a result had weaknesses in targeting, project selection, transparency, community
participation, and technical and financial monitoring. Of particular concern was the lack of
crisis-responsive geographical targeting, with high per capita allocations made to many rural
areas which do not need short-term crisis-response assistance, and high variable wage rates
attracting workers out of agriculture and other productive activities. This has been resolved in
the FY99/00 program. Another key issue has been the low participation of women in FY98/99
programs, which is being addressed by the creation of a special demand-driven fund for women's
employment together with efforts to mainstream gender concerns in the regularpadat karya
program.
*  Consolidating management structures. FY98/99 programs were fragmented among five line
ministries and nine directorates, resulting in widely differing wage rates and project
selection/recruitment processes.  A  key challenge was therefore the rationalization of
management structures and standardization of operational procedures.
C.    Preserving Access To Critical Social Services: Education and Health
3.19   To help maintain investments in human capital the Government is emphasizing preserving access
to critical social services and social welfare, with a focus on the education and health sectors.
C.1.   Education
3.20   Crisis Impacts. The crisis is not only affecting current but also future income earning capacity by
impeding the education and harming the health of Indonesians, especially the poor. Families tend to
withdraw their children from school as a way to cope with the crisis. This has happened in the past and
appears to be happening again now, especially at the junior secondary level and for certain groups and
regions. Preliminary survey results indicate, for example, that junior secondary enrollment in urban areas
fell by six percent this year. Since the decision to drop out of school is nearly always permanent, a new
generation of Indonesians is in serious jeopardy of loss.
3.21   Government's Response. In order not to jeopardize its long-term investmnent in human capital, the
Government has adopted a strategy of sustaining investments in basic education and protecting the poor
from the damaging effects of the crisis. GOI has already taken steps to counter the effects of the crisis
and avoid consequences similar to those of the previous period of adjustment in the mid-1980s. It has
adopted the following four-pronged approach:
* Protecting the overall education budget and increasing it for basic education. In FY98/99, GOI
moved to protected the budget for education by providing the same level of allocations for
education as pre-crisis levels of FY96/97 (increasing to Rp 8 trillion in nominal terms compared
to Rp 3 trillion in FY96/97). The basic education budget increased in real terms by over 55
percent (primarily due to the allocation of Rp 1.4 trillion for the crisis-relief programs providing
scholarships and school block grants, see below). To achieve this large increase for basic
education, allocations for other education subsectors were reduced. Funds for secondary, higher,
and non-formal education were budgeted to decline in real terms. For FY99/00 the budget for
core SSN activities in education has been set at Rp. 2.2 trillion (including an estimated Rp. 200
billion in undisbursed budget which will be carried over from FY98/99).



12
* Keeping poor children in school and preventing deterioration of quality. To maintain enrollment
and transition rates in primary and junior secondary education, and to preserve poor schools'
ability to provide basic quality education, the Government has implemented a five year national
"Back-to-School" program including a publicity campaign with UNICEF. With support from the
Bank and the Asian Development Bank, totaling $390 million, the program provides block grants
to the poorest 60 percent of primary, junior secondary and senior secondary schools and
scholarships for the poorest six percent of primary students, 17 percent of junior secondary
students and 10 percent of senior secondary students.
*  Monitoring outcomes. An effort to monitor the effect of the crisis on student outcomes and the
implementation and impact of the scholarship and grants program is underway. This is being
carried out via a combination of rapid surveys (the first of which was recently completed), an
independent monitoring team, and faster processing and analysis of the Government's annual
household socio-economic survey.
*  Increasing efficiency. Budget constraints have motivated the GOI to take further steps to increase
the efficiency of the education system. It is continuing with decentralizing responsibility for
education planning and delivery, and increasing school participation and autonomy through block
grants. It is also set up a high level task force to study a full range of teacher issues including
employment, deployment and working conditions.
3.22   Bank Support. Since the onset of the crisis, the Bank has been assisting GOI in responding to the
crisis. The Bank's role has been in:
*  Advocating the need to protect basic education and providing analytical support. A public
expenditure review was carried out to provide support to the Government in reallocating
resources in the FY98/99 budget. It advocated the need to protect basic education spending
during periods of adjustment given Indonesia's past experience with structural adjustment.
-  Moving rapidly to mobilize and support the Back-to-School program and other crisis programs.
The Bank was a driving force behind the large effort of scholarships for poor children and block
grants for schools in poor areas. This required putting together a coalition of ministries and
donor agencies within a very short period of time before schools opened in July 1998. In
addition, the Bank is now assisting GOI prepare a project for other children not reached by the
formal education system.
*  Portfolio restructuring: The Bank restructured its existing portfolio to be able to provide
financing for the Back-to-School program as quickly as possible, as well as to ensure that the
Bank's portfolio is appropriate for the current crisis priorities in Indonesia. Starting in late 1997,
the country team made amendments to ongoing projects to add or expand components supporting
poor students and schools, and canceled components which were no longer relevant to the
changed economic environment. Approximately $220 million has been reprogrammed from six
Bank projects including four on-going operations and two recently approved IDA/IBRD blend
basic education projects.
*  Monitoring and assessing the impact of the crisis. The Bank worked with the Ministry of
Education to design and implement a rapid school survey of 600 primary and junior secondary
schools in five provinces. The survey (along with other surveys and analysis) has been used to
refine current targeting procedures. In addition, the Bank assisted GOI in setting up the



13
independent monitoring team who will monitor the implementation of the scholarships and
school grants. The Bank quickly mobilized ASEM and AusAID funds to support these activities.
* Other Non-lending services. The Bank completed an education strategy paper in December 1998
which assesses both the short-term challenges facing Indonesia as well as the medium-term
issues. The paper formed the basis for a government and non-government seminar held in
February 1999. The seminar was the first step in forming a post-crisis medium-term education
strategy for Indonesia.
3.23   Challenges. Important challenges have required continued to receive attention from GOI, the
Bank, and other donors. These relate to the budget, and potential leakage in and targeting of the crisis-
relief programs:
*  Budget. While it is significant that basic education was protected in the FY98/99 budget, several
issues were considered for the new budget year: (i) how much of this allocation was in fact spent
during the year? (ii) can these allocations be sustained in the FY99/00 budget? (iii) should the
non-basic education sub-sectors continue to incur such major real declines in future allocations?
and (iv) in protecting crucial education services in FY99/00, budgetary support should be
provided for programs for children not reached by the formal education system, including the
scholarship and block grants programs.
*  Implementation. The implementation of the program is better than feared but not as rapid as
hoped. In many of the more remote areas the financial infrastructure was lacking and in many
cases, as is to be expected with a new program, there were delays in receipt of scholarships due
to, confusions about responsibilities.  These are being worked out for this year and
implementation should improve for the next school year.
a  Potential leakage and targeting issues. A number of important aspects of the Back-to-School
program set it apart from other Bank funded education projects. First, in response to the
economic crisis facing Indonesia, the program was mapped out rapidly and, although subjected to
thorough internal review, it was designed and launched within tremendous time constraints.
Second, the program is national, covering all provinces, all kabupaten and all kecamatan. Third,
the program involves the transfer of a substantial amount of money, over US$ 80 million per
year, directly from the Ministry of Finance, through the Post Office to over four million students
and 180,000 schools throughout Indonesia. Fourth, the procedures adopted for transferring funds
to those accounts and for accounting for the flow of funds are untested on such a wide scale.
Fifth, similarly, the methods of targeting the poorest students and schools and of selecting award
recipients are also untested.
3.24   Each of these 'firsts', together with the international and domestic demand for accountability
within Government, places particular emphasis on the requirement for thorough, comprehensive and
independent monitoring. The involvement of a broad representation of Indonesia's civil society in the
monitoring effort together with a core team of international professional monitors will facilitate the
objective of ensuring that accurate program process and outcome information is widely available.
Independent monitoring of the program will assess program efficiency by determining the extent to which
(i) it enables the poor to maintain access to basic education; (ii) the selection of award recipients is
transparent and free from abuse; (iii) awards are provided as intended and as scheduled; and (iv)
disproportionately affected groups (girls) are catered to.



14
C.2.   Health
3.25   Crisis Impacts. The outlook for health is similarly sobering. The depreciation of the rupiah has
raised the prices of drugs, vaccines, contraceptives, and other medical supplies. Rapid surveys in Jakarta
and several other cities and in rural areas in Java suggest that drug prices have doubled or even tripled
since the crisis began and higher prices and expenses are deterring the poor from seeking advice from
trained providers and increased self-treatment. Contraceptive use and immunization coverage appear to
have fallen, while pregnant women are visiting health centers less often, and are turning to cheaper, more
accessible, but less medically reliable, traditional midwives for antenatal and delivery care. Furthermore,
the reduced ability of the poor to purchase staple foods, has caused a significant increase in the risks of
malnutrition and micro-nutrient deficiencies, particularly for infants and children in some areas. More
effective and targeted interventions are needed to address nutrition shortfalls- the heterogeneous nature
of the crisis suggests that uniform national campaigns would be ineffective.
3.26   Government's Response.  Budget allocations for essential drugs, including vaccines and
contraceptives, and for basic health services have also been protected, roughly at real 1996/97 levels.
Communicable disease and community health programs, including supplementary nutrition initiatives,
have received special attention in this regard. More specifically, GOI's social safety net initiatives
include the following three clusters of policies and interventions:
3.27   In the area of pharmaceuticals, the Government's actions include:
*  a subsidized exchange rate ($1=Rp6,000) has been maintained for imports of raw materials used
in production of essential drugs in generic form (special agreements have been made between
GOI, with the state owned drug companies to safeguard production by private firms; this is being
audited by the inspector general);
- an early warning system concerning drug supplies has been set up in 152 districts, and covers 10
items, with provincial officers now empowered to immediately deliver drugs which are out of
stock;
X  additional subsidies have been made available in the budget through existing channels for health
centers and hospitals, and drugs donated by bilateral donors have been distributed to the most
needy health centers;
*  GOI authorities are receiving reports from an ad hoc monitoring arrangement being implemented
by an NGO (Yayasan Lembaga Konsumen Indonesia);
*  Ad hoc forums with wholesalers, as well as quick surveys and more comprehensive assessments,
have been used to monitor impacts on private drug wholesalers and retailers and the prices of
generic drugs sold through private retail outlets have been fixed by GOI, with price lists required
to be available at every pharmacy; similarly the association of pharmaceutical firms has issued
recommended prices for a limited number of high volume "branded" drugs.
3.28 In order to ensure provision of and access to basic health services for the poor and near-poor the
Government has:
* provided budget support for ongoing programs roughly at FY96/97 real levels;
* given priority to health services, including private clinics and hospitals, which serve the poor;



15
*  allocated special incentives to health staff based in or supervised from health centers in
impoverished areas with additional incentives going to village midwives and other staff carrying
out outreach activities;
* decreed that the poor are to receive free health services in government health centers and
hospitals.
3.29   Finally, to minimize the impact of the crisis on the nutritional status of vulnerable groups, the
Government has:
* reestablished the country's Food and Nutrition Surveillance System with the Timely Warning and
Implementation System being used to identify nutrition needs especially in areas where food
production has fallen; and
*  made available supplementary food to young children and pregnant and lactating women and to
primary school children in poor villages.
3.30   Bank Support. The Bank has added adjustment lending to its portfolio of initiatives in the health
field. The Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL) secured GOI's agreement to protect the health budget at
FY96/97 real levels, emphasizing protection of spending on communicable disease control, essential
drugs vaccines and contraceptives and basic curative services for the poor. The PRSL Letter of
Development Policy also committed the GOI to assessing the sustainability of the Government health
delivery system, evaluating the competitiveness of pharmaceutical production and developing a strategy
to extend pre-paid health finance mechanisms.
3.31   Meanwhile, the Bank's investment lending has included, inter alia, components within the Early
Childhood Development Project to support supplementary nutrition efforts in several provinces, aimed at
pregnant and breastfeeding women and young children, and capacity building efforts to enable provinces
to rationalize deployment of staff in response to local health needs. The Bank restructured its existing
loan portfolio including amendments to expand or add components in ongoing health sector projects to
help finance the purchase of contraceptives. The Bank is implementing an ASEM grant to monitor the
impact on the crisis of health outcomes.
3.32   Challenges. There are design problems of long standing which account for the vulnerability of
health to exchange rate depreciation, funding reductions and other features of the crisis. The Government
run health system as designed was from the outset too broad and ambitious in coverage of health
problems, and on too inclusive a basis. The resulting system was under-funded and paid too little
attention to consumer's preferences and to the quality of services. The system has never attracted the level
of utilization it was intended to reach. Although there are reports of some increases in visit rates during
this crisis (and the evidence is ambivalent on this score), utilization remains low and most would be
patients either self-treat or bypass lower level facilities--limited drug supplies, long waiting times and
indifferent treatment tend to have reconfirm the public's already skeptical view of the quality of service
delivery.
3.33   Because of such design and institutional weaknesses, quick disbursing loans have not proven to
be a completely effective response to the crisis in health. For example, quick disbursing loans as
previously constructed were ill suited to address problems such as: conflicting incentives for public
providers allowed to practice privately; a lack of managerial accountability at the facility level, poor
performance assessment; low quality standards; limited recourse to cost recovery and other forms of
resource mobilization; limited local priority setting and so forth. In fact, quick disbursing funds of the
sort supported by the IMF, ADB and even the PRSL run the risk of postponing the systemic reforms



16
needed for long term effectiveness and sustainability. Without careful planning these loans also pose a
threat to the implementation of ongoing projects. In short, the health sector issues go beyond a crisis in
funding and hence the response designed in this operation is more complex.
3.34   Accordingly, the present loan aims at overcoming such weaknesses in standard quick disbursing
operations. It includes a second tranche, is linked to achieving clear targets, and puts into place a number
of accountability mechanisms. And it allows for the establishment of demand side actors, NGOs who can
be a voice, advocate, and champion of the needs of the poor in health. In the policy dialogue we are clear
that short-term infusions of finance might be necessary, but they are far from sufficient to tackle the long-
term health of the health care system in Indonesia.
IV.   BANK GROUP RESPONSE AND INTERIM ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
4.1    A Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report was discussed by the Bank's Board on March 9,
1999. Hence, to avoid needless duplication, this memorandum only includes a brief summary. A new
country assistance strategy will be developed and agreed with the newly elected Government (probably
between December 1999 and March 2000). 1
4.2    Given the economic, social and political situation, the strategy over the next few months calls for
quick disbursing assistance to continue the momentum on the reform agenda and protect the vulnerable.
Over the next 12-18 months, the Bank's support to Indonesia will focus on three areas:
*  Reinforcing the social safety net to protect Indonesia's poor and near poor and to preserve human
assets;
*  Ensuring short-term stabilization, by helping restore banks and businesses to financial health and
maintaining physical assets;
*  Strengthening institutions to support sustainable growth.
4.3    The lending program has been expanded and reoriented towards fast-disbursing adjustment
operations to provide much needed fiscal and balance of payments support. To continue the support
begun with PRSL, the Bank has prepared an integrated package of three adjustment operations - this
proposed Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan focused on the effective design and implementation of
social programs for the poor, the proposed PRSL II to support broader policy reforms aimed at achieving
recovery and the proposed Water Resources Management SECAL.  This package of operations
incorporates a multi-faceted anti-corruption strategy. Technical assistance loans are planned to support
further banking reform, and corporate restructuring.
4.4    Non-lending services are focusing on a mix of quick policy advice and preparing the
groundwork for major reforms to be implemented by the next Government. Public demands to end
corruption in government operations is providing an unprecedented opportunity to protect not just Bank
lending, but also to advise the Government on how to improve the transparency and effectiveness of
expenditures more generally. The Bank will continue to support the Government with crisis monitoring,
policy advice, technical assistance and international best practice in three ways:first, continuing to be
active on the evolving social consequences of the crisis and providing relevant advice on appropriate
policy and budgetary interventions; second, remaining active in the two "drivers" of Indonesia's
economic recovery-bank and corporate restructuring, and institutional development for better private
' General elections are planned for June 7, 1999, with election of the President expected by September.



17
and public sector governance; and finally, third, building new institutions to support sustainable growth,
including anti-corruption measures and public sector reform.
4.5    Since the crisis began in the second half of 1997, the Bank has been part of a collaborative effort
with the IMF, ADB and bilateral donors to help the Government design its response and to arrange
adequate international financial support. Throughout this period the Bank, IMF, ADB have worked to
their comparative advantage in supporting Indonesia. The Bank has been particularly heavily involved in
the design of structural reforms, bank and corporate restructuring, and social safety net programs. The
ADB is taking the lead on assisting small and medium enterprises and also been involved with the social
safety net, health, and education programs. The scholarship program designed to keep children from
relatively poor families in school is being jointly financed with the ADB. All three of the IFIs have been
heavily involved in bank restructuring, and all have expressed concern for actions to improve governance
and to strengthen dialogue with civil society.
4.6    The IFC is continuing a close working relationship with the Government and the corporate sector.
The Corporation initially focused on restructuring efforts with existing clients, but more recently has
initiated new ventures as well. This includes initiatives to provide working capital to individual
companies, and renew and guarantee trade finance for a group of exporting firms. In the financial sector,
IFC is identifying a small number of banks that are fundamentally sound but require capital infusion, and
supporting mergers where that leads to a more robust and sound banking sector.
4.7    The Bank has intensified its aid coordination efforts, particularly in support of initiatives to
address the social aspects of the crisis. Since early 1998, the Bank has held regular donor coordination
meetings in Jakarta to report on the impact of the crisis and review donor response. In April, the Bank
organized a special one-day donor conference in Washington. The Bank-chaired CGI meeting held in
Paris in July, 1998, engendered a frank and constructive dialogue between donors and the Indonesian
authorities on sensitive issues such as governance, corruption, poverty, and complex financial sector
reforms, and led to a $7.9 billion support package.
4.8    There has been cooperation with various bilateral donors on a number of fronts. AusAID has
supplied trust fund assistance to set up a monitoring unit with capability in both quantitative analysis and
field based qualitative and participatory techniques. AusAID has also provided a monitoring component
to the scholarship program and consultants to help design thepadat karya desa program. USAID has
provided technical assistance on competition policy. The US, Europe and Japan have provided support
on bank restructuring and bank supervision. ASEM funds provided through the auspices of the European
Community with ASEAN cooperation have provided a range of activities including poverty up-dates,
current monitoring on crisis impacts and provincial trade deregulation and gender inputs.



18
V.    TILE PROPOSED LOAN
5.1    The proposed loan is designed to fit with the stabilization and safety net needs faced in the
overall GOI strategy and the Bank's strategy for Indonesia. The loan would provide quick disbursing
assistance to aid in the stabilization of the economy. Indonesia's government revenue and export
earnings have been hard hit by the economic downturn and precipitous drop in commodity prices,
particularly oil prices. Meanwhile, the capacity to reduce government expenditures has been severely
constrained by rising debt service obligations (largely due to the falling value of the rupiah), acute needs
for social programs to shield the poor, and the emerging cost of bank restructuring.
5.2   The proposed policy content of the loan would strengthen the safety net response over the near
term, which, besides being an imperative in its own right, will also help provide social stability necessary
for economic recovery and set the stage for improvements in governance. At the same time it fits the
Bank strategy of a focus on poverty and providing high impact policy advice.
5.3    The urgency and scale of the crisis demand that the social safety net programs must be carried
out through existing governmental institutions. This is so, even though these same governmental
institutions have at times in the past proved problematic, with delay, ineffectiveness, and, at times,
outright corruption. The purpose of this proposed operation is to improve the functioning of the social
safety net operations. This will be accomplished through actions in two key areas: safeguarding the key
programs and improving program design.
A.    Policy Actions Supported By the Loan.
5.4   The GOI's overall crisis response strategy and time-bound policy actions for protecting the poor
and preserving human assets through improved functioning of the social safety net programs are detailed
in their letter of development policy which is attached as Annex I. The specific policy agreements which
are covered by this loan are described below and elaborated in the policy matrix found in Annex II.
5.5    The Government's commitment to improving the functioning of its social safety net programs
began with the FY99/00 budget allocation process. The proposed PRSL II supports an agreement on
budget allocations for a core of safety net programs which represent an appropriate and feasible response
to the crisis including streamlined government administration. (A breakdown of the agreed FY99/00
budgets and estimated carryover from FY98/99 is given in Table 1.)
5.6    The Government has moved from a broad definition of "SSN" in FY98/99 to a more focused
understanding in FY99/00. Annual funding for these core SSN programs has increased as a percentage
of GDP compared to FY98/99 from about one percent to around 1.25 percent. Funding for the rice
subsidy in the targeted rice program (OPK) comprises about half the budget for the core SSN programs.
This program also shows the largest budget increase, as a percent of GDP, compared to FY98/99 going
from about 0.2 percent to 0.6 percent. OPK was launched in July 1998 when it reached about 150,00
households. By September it was reaching 6 million, climbing to almost 10 million by January. The
FY99/00 program is budgeted to cover around 13 million households for 12 months. Excluding OPK, the
core SSN program budgets (including carryovers) are down by about 0.15 percent of GDP, even though
FY98/99 budgets were for programs operating, at most, for three-quarters of the fiscal year. This budget
is more in-line with the Government's institutional capacity for effective implementation and potential
effectiveness of resource transfers.



19
Table 1: Total FY99/00 Core Social Safety Net Program Development and Routine Budget'
SSN Program Area        FY98/99 Budget    New FY99/00        Total FY99/00      Total Budget
Est. Carry-over   Budget Allocation   Budget Allocation  Allocation
(Rp billions)    (Rp billions)     (Rp billions)    (US$ millions)2
Total in the Development      1,600.0            12,623.5         14,223.5      $1,616.3
and Routifie Budgets
Total in the                 1,600.0            5,723.5          7,323.5        $832.2
Development Budget
Food Security                50.0               119.6            125.1          19.89
Health                     1,000.0            1,695.3           1,715.3        308.56
Education                   200.0             2,033.7          2,045.6         255.18
Padat Karya                 200.0             1,000.0           1,012.5        137.78
Cornmunity Funds            150.0              800.0             825.0         110.80
Total in the Routine            0               6,900.0          6,900.0        $784.1
Budget (Targeted Rice
Subsidy "OKP")
1/ Additional amount, yet to be agreed, will be budgeted for cross-sectoral coordination of SSN programs
2/ Exchange rate of Rp8800:$US 1.00
5.7    Building on this foundation of more appropriate and focused budget allocations, this proposed
loan supports reinforcement of the social safety net programs through policy actions in two areas which
are described in more detail below: (i) safeguarding programs from abuse through enhanced monitoring
and civil society involvement; and (ii) improving program design through better targeting and application
of best practice. An initial set of policy actions, which would be completed prior to disbursement of loan
funds, establishes the structures and mechanisms for reinforcing the social safety net. Actual performance
of the SSN in reaching the poor would be measured overtime, thus the second tranche of this loan
supports independent verification that the intended beneficiaries have been served. The second tranche
would also support implementation of enhanced monitoring by requiring evidence of enactment down to
the lowest levels of government and through demonstration of government cooperation with civil society
monitors.
5.8    Safeguarding the Social Safety Net Programs From Leakage and Delay: This proposed loan
would support the launch of a national high profile effort to accelerate implementation and heighten
monitoring efforts for the key safety net programs. This effort has three apex organizations which are
expected to interact through a stakeholders forum. First, a Government oversight group that will
coordinate the line ministries. Second, a "control team" (Tim Pengendali). This team has been created
by presidential decree and is in the process of being staffed with both government and civil society
representatives. It has authority to monitor program perforrnance, to assist line ministries and oversee the
implementation of individual program monitoring, to speed implementation and to attack administrative
bottlenecks.



20
5.9    The third critical element is the Government's openness and support for civil society to play a
prominent role in monitoring SSN programs. The Bank has been working with Government to foster the
formation of a more formal "independent monitoring team" of civil society groups and NGOs. It is
envisioned that such a team would work as a liaison between government and civil society, NGOs, and
mass based organizations. To reassure civil society of its commitment to transparency in the SSN
programs --a pre-requisite to independent monitoring -- the Government has consulted with civil society
groups in April 1999 on the design of information dissemination and other provisions of the FY99/00
SSN programs (see Annex V). In addition, Government has taken steps to support external and
autonomous funding of civil society monitoring efforts and an independent monitoring team and is
enabling its potential effectiveness through provisions of necessary information and access and the offer
to meet regularly.
Box 2: Key Safety Net Programs
Food Security
* OPK (Operation Pasar Khusus): a program to distribute a certain amount of rice per month to targeted
households at subsidized prices.
Employment Creation
Community Funds
* PDM-DKE: a program to provide funding directly to local governments for use in open menu, labor
intensive and other employment creation activities.
Padat Karya
* Cipta karya: social safety net employment generation programs consolidated under the Ministry of Public
Works.
Social Services
Education
*   Student Scholarship and Block Grant: a program-which provides scholarships to targeted students for junior
secondary school and block grants directly to schools.
Health
* Pharnaceuticals: a program to subsidize key generic drugs.
* Basic Health Care: a set of programs to strengthen the health care in local clinics.
5.10   Together, the respective line ministries and control team have drafted orders for each of the key
SSN programs (listed in Box 2) which include a five-fold strategy to safeguard programs from above,
below, around and within. The five elements include provisions for:
* internal monitoring and controls over the operation of each program, including monthly reports to
the control team;
*  execution of random spot checks on programs and their implementing agencies and verify, on a
sampling basis, the information received in monthly reports;
*  a publicity and information campaign to reach grass roots level with information about the
program, its budget, beneficiaries and what they should receive, decision making structure, and
the channel for complaints;
*  a complaint mechanism that will receive and act on complaints supervised by the control team to
ensure responsiveness to complaints; and



21
community and NGO involvement in monitoring, with linkages both to the community and to a
national network that will have access to the national oversight group.
5.11   An overall information campaign will attempt to make citizens aware of the programs, their
design and decision making structures and the intended beneficiaries. In addition important steps are
being taken to make the detail of SSN budgets including administration budgets down to the district level
available at the local level. With detailed program information at hand, every citizen is empowered as a
monitor.
5.12   This type of joint action by government and civil society in cooperating in program
implementation and oversight is an important innovation. The vision for this complicated structure which
has been developed together with government and civil society groups is illustrated in Figure 1. The
figure is complicated because the situation is complicated, both in terms of having many programs to be
monitored and different functions to be carried out (reporting, verification, complaint resolution). Finally
the political and social situation is complicated and hence monitoring requires a government group to
have sufficient internal impetus for action by the line ministries, an independent group to create
legitimacy and credibility in the monitoring efforts and keep the process open and transparent, and a
mixed group to mediate between the two. Civil society organizations have remained reluctant to
participate in a formal "independent monitoring team". While various such groups are interested and
active in monitoring social safety net programs, a process for formal coordination of these efforts with
Government has yet to be established. The Bank is continuing to work with GOI, the Control Team and
civil society groups to help develop and implement a shared vision of more institutionalized cooperation.
5.13   Design of Social Safety Net: The second set of policies and actions to be supported by the
proposed loan focus on the design of the social safety net programs for the FY99/00 fiscal year. For all
programs the proposed loan addresses the important issue of geographical targeting. Each of the safety
net programs has used different formula for the allocation of funds across districts, and FY98/99
allocations based on old poverty data included large safety net provisions for rural districts which, in
some cases, as a result of the currency devaluation, are now booming from unprecedented export
earnings. New data are being used to ensure that SSN programs are directed to areas with real need. The
regional budget allocations and the criteria for their determination will be made public.
5.14   Specific design improvements for each of the key social safety net programs are being
incorporated in revised operating manuals and instructions. The main focus of the revisions is to increase
transparency,  facilitate greater local participation, and enhance accountability.  In addition to
incorporation of five point monitoring strategies that ensure better accountability, the operating manuals
for each program are being revisited based on field evaluations, experience on the ground, and
international best practice. For FY99/00 programs identified as requiring significant re-working (e.g., the
employment creation activities), no disbursements will be authorized until manuals and instructions
reflecting design improvements acceptable to the Bank have been issued.  The GOI's letter of
development policy (Annex 1) elaborates the improvements that are being made in each of the key SSN
programs.
5.15   Progress on the initial set of actions which establish the structures and mechanisms for
reinforcing the SSN is quite advanced, with several items already complete and the rest well underway as
noted in Box 3. These loan effectiveness conditions challenge GOI institutions to quickly implement
wide reaching monitoring and design reforms so that FY99/00 programs can benefit from improvements
and increased transparency. The Government has set for itself an ambitious time schedule to complete
the steps for introducing these new approaches to provide technical support for others.



Figure 1: ORGANIZATIONAL NATIONAL SETTING FOR SOCIAL SAFETY NET (SSN)
HOLDERS
WORN  TFORUMO
.. / EMLYMN            TMLLME\U
COORDINATION                                 CONTROLING TEAM                             INDEPENDENT
TAIM                                     (TIM PENGENDALI)                          MONITORING TEAM
WORKING       INFORMATIONNG
GROUPS          CLUEARIN                                                                               MNN GO
FOODSECUR TY  PRO ERIIAINCNOMTION                                 COMPLAINT|I
CREATION ~ ~    ~      ~     CAPAG ENSOEERPNRISE
MECH KNISM  |OW
BEEIIRE                                                                  ACIIYO
t  . _t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIIT



23
B.    Size, Features, and Timing
5.16   The proposed loan amount is US$600 million of quick disbursing assistance. The disbursements
will be divided up between a two tranches of US$300 million each with the first to be disbursed upon
loan effectiveness expected by the end of May, 1999 and the second expected after September 1999. As
described above, the first tranche would be released against the creation of the mechanisms for
implementation and monitoring, including civil society participation, and policy actions on the allocation
of budgets, and design of programs. Together, these create the means for a reinforced safety net in the
new fiscal year. The remaining loan amount would be disbursed in a second tranche conditioned against
policy actions on design and against specific agreed upon performance against annual targets in the
safety net programs and their monitoring.
5.17   This two tranche approach is a necessary response to the uncertain climate, and a key element of
ensuring that the monies are well used. Difficult questions can be raised about the rationale for Bank
quick disbursing assistance to the current Government in this intensely political period. But, if a second
tranche is conditioned on specific physical performance targets, which are verified independently, then it
is clear programs that reach the poor are being supported (at least to the best of anyone's ability to
judge).
5.18   The proposed loan has been timed to allow for full engagement with the Government as the
budgets and designs for FY99/00 SSN programs are developed and locked in. These decisions are
expected to be finalized in the early part of the fiscal year and GOI intends to complete them no later
than May 1999 as program implementation and disbursement must await promulgation of detailed
orders. In addition, the proposed loan together with the PRSL II comprise a comprehensive package of
reforms and have been designed for joint presentation to the Board. While the resulting timing is
controversial, waiting until the outcome of the ongoing political process would have meant sacrificing a
policy dialogue on the FY 99/00 safety net programs.
5.19   The program aims to strike a balance between the need for speed on the one hand, as the needs
of the poor and near poor are immediate and severe, and the need to protect social safety net programs
from fraud and misuse of funds on the other. The imperative of quick action means that, in a country as
vast as Indonesia, especially taking account of its stage of development and the capabilities of its
institutions, safeguarding can be improved, but not perfected.
5.20   Since this loan deals with policy issues concerning the safety nets, there was a consideration of
taking the exceptional step of making disbursement against a positive list of specified items related to the
safety net (e.g. rice, pharmaceuticals). During the preparation mission this possibility was explored, but
since most safety net expenditures are domestic (especially for employment creation) the uncertainty of
the forecasts for rice for the next fiscal year meant that adopting a positive list would lead to a large risk
of being unable to disburse. Hence it was decided to stay with the usual approach of a disbursement
against a negative list.
C.    Coordination and Consultation
5.21   Donor coordination. In connection with this operation an early meeting was held to brief all
donors on the topic areas to be covered. Follow-up meetings were then held on specific issues of
bilateral interest. Donors were up-dated on preparation progress at a second general meeting in
connection with the "interim" Consultative Group for Indonesia held on January 25, 1999 in Jakarta.
Bilateral discussions with major donors include:



24
* witih OECF on providing parallel or co-financing to this operation.
* with USAid and AusAid to provide financing to the civil society component of the control team
so that the funding does not have to come through government channels and hence there can be
real independence.
Box 3: Progress on Key Actions for Loan Effectiveness and Release of Funds
(see conditions in policy matrix, Annex II)
.SAtl - if -Ke-ySafety.NetExpOnditures
* Resolution of implementation problems. A list of 25 specific problems in ongoing SSN programs were
identified and agreed. Agreement has also been reached on appropriate investigation procedures and
criteria for what constitutes a "corrective" action. Of five where problems were confirmed, corrective
action is underway and is being reviewed by the Bank. GOI has indicated it will initiate investigation of
the remaining 20 problems by the end of April, 1999. Resolution and corrective actions would follow.
* Public dissemination of detailed programs and budgets. The Government has prepared information
packets, including budget information on FY98/99 SSN programs. These have been provided to a wide
range of civil society groups as part of the public consultation process. Instructions for preparing
detailed budgets for district level governments have been prepared.
* Five point safeguarding strategy included in key SSN programs. The Government has drafted orders for
each of the key SSN programs which include all five points of the strategy (or for on-going programs,
those points not yet covered) for enhanced monitoring, including transparency and information
dissemination requirements and complaint resolution mechanisms and prosecution procedures. During
April, 1999 GOI consulted with civil society groups on these drafts. GOI expects to issue these orders
by mid-May, 1999 after civil society comments have been taken into account. Funding for carrying out
these enhanced monitoring activities, including oversight, has been budgeted and amounts have been
agreed with the Bank.
* Public disclosure of GOI orders on SSN programs. Following the issuance of orders for enhanced
monitoring in key SSN programs as described above, orders would be publicly disclosed as discussed
with civil society groups during the April consultations. Public disclosure would follow immediately
upon issuance of the orders.
!    4Prove sPfety Net Ptrogam  ign
*  Geographical targeting. Criteria for targeting using the latest information on crisis impacts has been
agreed and the Government is preparing regional and sub-regional budget allocations for the key SSN
programs to reflect these criteria. The Bank expects to reach agreement with the Government on sub-
national budget allocations by mid-May, 1999.
* Improved design for implementation of "carried over" padat karya and community fund programs. The
Government has issued new instructions, which were based on field evaluations and were acceptable to
the Bank, to improve the working of the padat karya activities and community funds carried over into
the FY99/00 fiscal year.
5.22   Since the ADB is responsible for Small and Medium Enterprises this operation does not address
those governments programs designed to support SMEs.



25
5.23   The food for work and cash for work programs that are being carried out as part of the drought
relief activities, principally in the Eastern Islands, are being coordinated through the World Food
Program. Most of these programs are being implemented through national or international NGOs with
close supervision, which is why they were not part of the "key" activities identified to be in the
safeguarding efforts.
5.24   Since labor issues were particularly important, two ILO staff joined the preparation mission and
have contributed important inputs on retrenchment, and labor intensive programs.
5.25   Consultations with civil society. Regular consultations with the NGO community and other
groups have been held to explain the direction of the Bank's program and seek feedback (Annex V
provides a description of the overall consultation strategy for this operation and the interim CAS). As
part of the Bank's anti-corruption efforts, we have been fostering direct consultation between the
government and civil society groups so that these groups are able to influence the design of government
programs and through improved understanding of the programs are better positioned to support
measures that would help combat "leakage" in the Government's social safety net programs and the
Bank's projects. (The Government's consultation with civil society groups on the design of FY99/00
SSN programs is also described in Annex V.) In view of the rapidly changing political landscape, the
Bank is in contact with the various emerging political groups to position the Bank as the development
institution for all Indonesians.
D.    Benefits and Risks
5.26   Benefits. There are three major benefits to the proposed operation:
* The first and most obvious benefit is an improvement in the degree to which the poor can cope with
the ongoing crisis through several mechanisms: less misuse of funds so that programs work more
effectively, better targeting and design, and less delay.
* The second is the benefit of the financing, providing budget support that allows the Government to
fund the SSN programs and fiscal stimulus to the economy to accelerate overall economic recovery,
which ultimately is the most effective safety net, without macroeconomic imbalances.
e The third benefit is the innovation of the joint involvement of civil society and government in
monitoring of safety net programs. This would serve as a vanguard in redefining the relationship
between government and civil society -- people are empowered by increased transparency and better
checks and balances. This is moving to national and program wide scale techniques of information
and community involvement that have shown promising results in earlier Bank operations.
5.27   Risks and mitigation. The risks specific to the proposed operation include:
* The resources and powers granted to the oversight group or control team are insufficient to carry out
its mandate;
* Civil society and NGOs are reluctant to participate in the SSN monitoring program due to lack of
credibility of GOI efforts and/or the appearance of supporting the existing regime; and
* Insufficient Government commitment to policies supported by this loan leading to lack of follow
through and failure to safeguard programs.
5.28   These risks have been mitigated by the proposed loan's two tranche design, with disbursement
of the second tranche dependent on program performance and the evidence of transparent operation of
programs and follow-through on complaint resolution.



26
5.29   The first tranche would be released following the creation of the mechanisms including civil
society participation, allocation of budgets, and design of programs that, together, create the means for a
reinforced safety net. The second tranche would be released principally against evidence that programs
are, in fact, helping the poor. In addition, technical assistance is being provided bilaterally by donors to
facilitate implementation and independent monitoring of social safety net programs.
5.30   Prominent civil society groups continue to be skeptical of Government's commitment to giving
them a substantial role in safeguarding social safety net programs. However, during the preparation of
the proposed loan there has been extensive dialogue with key NGOs, opposition groups, and mass based
organizations (see Annex V).
5.31   The biggest risks are general and beyond the proposed operation, as the Bank's entire assistance
strategy is subject to considerable risk and uncertainty. While indications of economic stabilization are
starting to emerge, much will depend on continued implementation of the economic reform program and
regaining public confidence through a transparent, credible process of political transition and developing
a sound, modem governance framework. Five major risks could undermine effectiveness:
*  Uncertainty associated with political transition.
* The possibility of government paralysis on reform as political pressures and campaign pressures
interfere with decision making.
* Continued fragility of the banking system and pressure for rising government expenditures possibly
undermining the commitment to prudent fiscal management.
*  The possibility of social unrest due to rising unemployment, increasing prices and falling real
incomes.
*  Limitations in administrative capacity, coupled with opposition from vested interests.
5.32   The implementation of the policies and institutional reforms supported by the proposed
operation should help to mitigate these risks by providing sufficient, and sufficiently visible and
credible, safety net actions which would reduce social tension and provide an environment conducive to
economic recovery and a smooth political transition. With elections scheduled for June 1999, the
transition government is motivated to push ahead with economic recovery and maintain social stability.
It is receiving broad-based support from the IMF, Bank and ADB who helped design a comprehensive
reform program and are providing substantial external financing. Regular reviews help to keep the
reform program on track and adjusted to the changing landscape. Recent sustained appreciation of the
rupiah gives reason for optimism.
5.33   Nevertheless, political uncertainties remain paramount in determining the magnitude of these
risks. With relatively open elections for the first time in more than 30 years scheduled for June 7, 1999,
it is unclear which political coalition will emerge as the country's new leadership. The credibility of the
next Government will depend on the public's perception of fairness in the election process.



27
VI. RECOMMENDATION
6.1    I am satisfied that this proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
April 27, 1999



MINISTER OF STATE FOR NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING/
CHAIRMAN OF NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AGENCY
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Our Ref :26 2 /MK/04/1999                           Jakarta, April 26, 1999
Mr. James Wolfenshon
President,
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C.
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfenshon,
Subject: Statement of Development Policy: Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan
The attached Statement of Development Policy and accompanying Matrix of Policy
Actions outline the program of reforms Indonesia is implementing to strengthen the
government's response to the social impact of the present crisis. These actions have been
designed to provide the greatest possible support to the poor and those suffering due to
the crisis and to restore progress     duction.
r for National Development Planning/
Chairman of Bappenas
CC:
I. Coordinating Minister for Economy, Fin.nce, and Industry.
2. Minister of Finance.



Annex I
Page 1 of 13
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY: SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROGRAM
I. BACKGROUND
1.   The implementation of development up to mid 1997 had shown success, with real impact
on the welfare of the people. The success was indicated by the high rate of economic growth,
accompanied by the increasing quality of the community. After declining from over half the
population, by 1990 the number who lived under poverty line still reached 27 million people or
around 15 per cent. This decreased further still, to 22 million people or around 11 per cent in
1996. But before the problem was totally solved, the 1997 monetary crisis hit Indonesia which
developed into an economic and political crisis.
2.   The accumulation of crisis conditions has shocked the national economic base. The
monetary crisis has spread from the neighboring countries. This crisis did not hit Indonesia only,
but also other Asian countries. The economic crisis was indicated by the weakening value of
local currency against foreign currencies especially US dollar. The various problems had caused
economic activities to decrease especially banking and big scale industries which depend on
import, as well as disturbance on production activities, distribution and consumption. Many
private companies have even had to close down their business. On the other hand crisis also
causes financial problem to the government as well as to private sector. This financial and
economic crisis was exacerbated by natural disasters in drought in 1997/early 1998 and forest
fires which came at the same time.
3.   As a result of this crisis, Indonesia is facing problems it has not had to face in this severity
in thirty years. The external challenge is the efforts to improve competitive power in this free
trade era. The internal challenge is to address the employment, poverty and social impacts of the
crisis.
4.   There are various signs of the discouraging conditions. According to the estimates of
Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS) the number of unemployed or underemployed has reached
around 13.8 million people. The purchasing power of the community in fulfilling the needs for
foods, clothing, housing, education and health has declined sharply. The number of people living
under poverty line increased sharply.
5.   The challenge now is how to formulate real actions to get out of the critical condition and
return to normal development direction. In this framework of overcoming the impact of
economic crisis, social safety net program is introduced.
6.   This letter describes briefly our strategy to date, with an indication of the accomplishments,
the problems and the challenges. This challenges create an understanding of the needed reforms
and why the particular policies detailed in this letter, which are those undertaken to improve the
social safety net programs, are those that are right and necessary.
II. GENERAL STRATEGIC APPROACH
7.   The strategy applied in Social Safety Net (Jaring Pengaman Sosial, or "JPS") program is
the integration of growth and equal distribution. In general the social safety net program has the
purpose to increase the efforts to overcome the impact of crisis and to accelerate the efforts to
overcome the impact of crisis, especially for people susceptible to crisis in those
villages/kelurahan which are hit worst by the impact of the crisis. This is implemented through



Annex I
Page 2 of 13
community empowerment policy (capacity building) in community development which involves
community self-supporting institutions to develop and monitor loan implemented by the
community itself in their common business group (Pokmas). The conspicuous principle in the
implementation of JPS program is the participatory development principle. Through the principle
the efforts of various aid to the community can be channeled accurately according to the correct
planning document. The on-going JPS program at this moment is expected to be able to facilitate
various programs directly aimed to the community through one channeling mechanism in the
financial management facility which is more integrated, transparent, accountable, and gives direct
access to the community in a sustainable way.
8.   The four broad organizing directions of the JPS program are:
*  Improvement offood security. To secure the supply of the staple commodities of the
community with affordable prices, among others carried out with a targeted, direct
subsidy for rice.
* Social protection in basic services, especially health and education. Guarantee that basic
health and basic education services are always within the reach of the people.
*  Creation of productive employment. Give extensive work opportunities in productive
economic activities through labor intensive pattern with the intention to create buying
power for the unemployed, so that it can help their capability to buy staple commodities
and strengthen community capacity in re-establishing their economic and social strength
to mitigate the impact of the crisis.
*  Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. To grow and develop again people's
economic activities, especially for small and medium scale economic activities, as well as
improving participation of cooperatives institution to increase people's economic
activities in a productive way, and really having cooperative spirit.
III. GOVERNMENT POLICY STEPS IN IMPROVING THIE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
9.   As is evident from the discussion above of the programs, we have taken many actions to
promote the people's welfare and help the suffering from this financial, political and social crisis.
However, there is much that remains to be done and much that could be improved. We are
committed to improving the operation in the safety net programs by carrying out a set of policy
actions focused on three main fields:
(a) Protecting Key Social Expenditures Crucial to the Poor;
(b) Improving Design of Social Safety Net Program.
(c) Safeguarding the Social Safety Net Programs;
10.  The specific actions that have been, and will be, taken under each of these areas are listed
below. These actions are also outlined in the Policy Matrix, jointly agreed with the World Bank.



Annex I
Page 3 of 13
A.)   Protecting expenditures crucial to the poor
11.  Following the extraordinary events of the first half of 1998, the preparation of a new
budget in June of 1998 for the remainder of the fiscal year (FY) 1998/1999 created major
challenges:
*  inflexibility of the pre-existing programs and budget items meant that many different
agencies were involved in JPS programs,
*  the fact that much of the available funds from foreign sources were tied to specific
projects and regions and could not be reallocated, and
*  the lack of hard data on the areas hit by the crisis meant targeting programs was difficult.
12.  In our budget for FYI 999/2000 these problems will be overcome and improvements made.
JPS programs represent the priority in FY1999/2000 and so will be adequately funded. The
design of the programs will consolidate efforts on the social safety net in a set of "core" social
safety net programs so as to focus efforts and improve implementation. All available data will be
used to target the crisis impacts and households that are suffering. FY1999/2000 budget
allocations for all new safety net programs and allocation across safety programs (food security,
employment creation, social protection) are based on creating a balanced program of crisis and
poverty alleviation programs that span the needs of the people. We will make these program
budget allocations available to interested groups.
13.  Food Security. There are three principal means of ensuring food security under the safety
net.
*  First, maintenance of adequate supplies of the main staple, rice, at affordable prices
through imports of rice, if necessary. These actions are undertaken through BULOG.
-  Second, a set of programs to expand types of food production so as to ensure the long-
term sustainability.
-  Third, OPK, a program to sell rice at a subsidized price to targeted individuals. The
special market operations or Operasi Pasar Khusus (OPK) program aims to provide 20
kilograms a month at a price of 1,000 rp/kg to selected households. The budget allocated
is through the routine budget and will make available as much as Rp. 6.9 trillion for
subsidized rice.
14.  The OPK program is targeted to households directly. The budget of Rp. 6.9 trillion for
OPK rice subsidy should be sufficient for 11.2 million households who are eligible because they
are in the lowest two groups of economic status according to the ranking of the BKKBN (family
planning agency). In addition, this budget allows an additional 2.2million food insecure
households into the program (see below on program design for how that will be done). The
budget allocation also builds in an allowance in case poverty rates increase even further during
the year.
15.  We do not want to continue such a large program into future fiscal years. However, since
both independent and government evaluations suggest that this program is operating reasonably,
extending it for an additional year at these high levels seems prudent.



Annex I
Page 4 of 13
Social Protection: Education and Health
16.  Development expenditures for social sectors such as basic education and health will be
maintained, at least the same as for this budget year.
17.   Education. In the education sector, to maintain the scope, coverage and quality of basic
and secondary education we will maintain the level of development budget allocation in
FY1999/2000 year at the same level as we had in the FY1998/1999 budget in real terms. The
plan also calls for increased budgetary allocations for non-formal/community education
programs. Education expenditures (as opposed to allocations) for FY1998/1999 will be reviewed
and we will revise the FY1999/2000 budgets in line with the overall strategy.
18.  The budget for education in the "core" social safety net" is Rp. 2,033 billion. We will
ensure that adequate amounts are provided in the FYl999/2000 national development budget for
the scholarship and block grants program which is one of our key JPS programs. With this level
of funding the target levels to be reached are:
* at the primary level: 1.8 million scholarships / 104,340 school grants;
* at the JSE level: 1.65 million scholarships / 18,236 school grants; and
*  at the SSE level: 0.5 million scholarships / 9,400 school grants.
19.  The targeting of the scholarships is based on two levels.  An initial allocation of
scholarships to kabupaten/kota regions is based on the latest data on poverty levels, the impact of
the crisis, and enrollment levels, taking into account the scholarships given last year. Within the
districts scholarships are allocated based on locally assessed needs of the students, with the
participation of school personnel and citizens.
20.  Health. To be able to maintain the quality of health services given to the community, in
FYl 999/2000 enough budget shall be allocated such that budget provisions for health center and
health sub-center operational costs (including medicines and consumables) are at least at the same
levels in real terms as in FY1996/1997.
21.  We have budgeted Rp. 1,695 billion for health programs in the core social safety net. We
will maintain development budget allocations to health, family planning and nutrition as a share
of the national budget for FY1999/2000 at the same level as in FY1996/1997. We will allocate
budget to the district level, and will consider the indicators of health status and a poverty index in
addition to population.
Employment Creation
22.  There are two principal employment creation programs, the '"padat karya" programs that
are carried out either by ministries or regional governments (provincial and kabupaten/kota
levels) and a number of "community fund" programs which provide government funds directly to
local community organizations to undertake activities from a menu, all of which will directly or
indirectly stimulate the local economy and expand employment.
23. PadatKarya. In the last FY1998/1999 there were programs in many ministries authorized
as "padat karya" programs. This multiplicity of programs was a necessary feature of the



Annex I
Page 5 of 13
constraints imposed on the budget last year, both by the budget process and by the inflexibility of
the financing of the donors. In this year the budget for employment creation will be consolidated
into just two activities under the Public Works Ministry (PU) with a total budget of Rp. 1,000
billion. The Cipta Karya group will design and implement the employment creation program.
With a budget of Rp. 1,000 billion we estimate that 58.2 million days of labor will be provided.
If each person were to work 144 days,.benefits are estimated to accrue to 404,466 people.
24.  One of our major concerns with thepadat karya programs implemented in FY1998/1999
was that, even though over 40 percent of those recorded as unemployed are women, except in a
few locations (e.g. Bali) the participation of women in thepadat karya activities was typically
very low. This implies that in order to reach all of the unemployed, means need to be made
available to create employment activities for unemployed women that are consistent with
Indonesian cultural values and the employment desires of Indonesian women to contribute to
their families and households. In order to do this, we will create a demand-driven Special
Initiative for Women's Unemployment, which will fund proposals from both government and
civil society agencies. This activity will have a budget of Rp. 150 billion and will be implemented
by an agency with appropriate project delivery experience. We are currently in consultation with
a broad range of Indonesian women's associations in an effort to define more fully the best
approach.
25.  Community Funds.  An important social safety net mechanism, both for reaching
individuals flexibly and for promoting sustainable economic activities at the local level are funds
which the government makes directly available to communities. Several of these funds have been
operating for some time, such as P3DT, which are limited to community infrastructure such as
roads. The recent generation of community fund programs has a more open menu of activities.
26.  In response to the crisis, we designed and implemented a new program in FY1998/1999,
PDM-DKE, which provides block grants to local community groups. In FY1999/2000 the new
budget allocation for this program will be Rp. 800 billion. Since this is a crisis, the funds will
primarily be targeted to urban areas hardest hit by the crisis according to the latest data on
poverty and crisis impacts. Also, since this is one of several "community fund" programs (e.g.
P3DT, P2KP, PPK) it will be coordinated with those other programs so as not to overlap. The
targeting of the benefits to specific individuals is subject to local decision making, which is
described below.
27.  Implemented in rural areas only, the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP or PPK)
makes available block grants which are used by the community. While this program was
designed prior to the crisis and has long term development objectives and hence is not a crisis
program, it is an important poverty reduction program. Also operating in urban areas will be a
community fund program financed by the World Bank, the Urban Poverty Project (UPP or P2KP)
which is in its first year of operation.
28.  All together the development budget allocation to core social safety net programs amounts
to Rp. 5,773 billion. In addition, we are rolling over an estimated Rp.1.6 trillion from
FY1998/1999 JPS budgets bring total FY1999/2000 spending authority to about Rp. 7.4 trillion.
This does not include an allocation from routine budget for a rice subsidy of Rp. 6.9 trillion for
OPK. This also does not include many other items which we are undertaking to promote the
economy, such as support to SMEs



Annex I
Page 6 of 13
29.  In order to protect these allocations to the Social Safety Net when the state financial
condition is still tight, other expenditures will be reduced. Based on the principles that subsidy
will not be given forever, and according to pro-poor budget principles, subsidy will only be given
for goods and or services consumed mostly by low income groups. Pro-poor Policy shall be valid
also for subsidy for fuel, electricity, etc. In preparing the FY1999/2000 budget, subsidy which is
not for pro-poor shall be reduced gradually phased down and priority shall be given to JPS
programs.
B.)   IMPROVING THE DESIGN OF PROGRAMS
30.  With all the shortcomings in the implementation of several programs, design improvement
is still needed for JPS programs especially to reach the community which becomes the target of
the program. Within the "core" social safety net there is a small set of programs that are large
and prominent and are the "key" social safety net programs. This set consists of OPK under food
security, the scholarships and block grants program in education, the puskesmas and nutrition
programs under health, and in employment creation the PDM-DKE community fund program and
the padat karya program of Cipta Karya. With special attention to these key programs, we are
altering the design of safety net programs to achieve better targeting and greater accountability in
implementation.
31.  To achieve better targeting, we will use the new data on crisis impacts, including targeting
using data on unemployment, migration, and the impact of the crisis, to decide on geographical
targeting of the key JPS programs to improve the coverage of those who have become poor from
the crisis. We will formally announce both the targeting allocations and the criteria used for their
deternination for all the key FY1999/2000 JPS programs. For the education scholarship and
block grant program we plan to use refined indicators of need to improve the targeting of awards
and selection of recipients. We will carryout the geographical targeting through the specific
regional and local budget allocations. For the OPK program we will continue to use the BKKBN
listing as our primary targeting. Targeting is being improved by focusing on economic
parameters of food insecurity. It is our expectation that this will result in a larger share of the
OPK subsidy going to urban households.
32.  To improve the accountability in implementation, we will prepare operational manuals and
implementation procedures that address issues that have caused implementation problems. As
described below under the safeguarding section on civil society consultation, in making these
revisions to programs we will carry out a public consultation process for the design of key JPS
programs for FY1999/2000. We will only finalize operational manuals and implementing
procedures after the consultation process is complete. More specific design improvements that
will be done for the OPK, community fund, padat karya, the education scholarship and block
grant program, and health are described below.
33.  No funds will be authorized or disbursed for FYI 999/2000 programs until operation these
manuals and procedures have been agreed with the Bank and issued. For two projects, the OPK
and education scholarships, we are planing to revise the manuals and procedures to reflect new
information that is being collected and analyzed. Prior to issuance, these revisions will be agreed
with the Bank. For thepadat karya and community fund activities for which we are rolling over
funds from FY1998/1999, we are preparing new instructions based on all available evaluations
and acceptable to the Bank. We plan to issue these instructions to the district (kabupatenlkota)
and sub-district heads and project managers to ensure that implementation adheres to the
operational procedures.



Annex I
Page 7 of 13
34.  For FY1999/2000, we have decided to implement a program which is called JPS Program
and Community Empowerment (PJPS-PM). This program is intended to give more autonomy in
planning and implementation of JPS program to the Regions; therefore it will be managed by the
Regions.
35.  OPK. While there are many. administrative problems that are being overcome (e.g.
transportation costs, financing of purchase by the poor), two key difficulties which the OPK
program faces are: i) reaching the urban poor affected by the crisis; and ii)improving
implementation in urban areas. The OPK must also cope with two other difficulties. First, the
data used for targeting individuals, the BKKBN listing of "pra-sejahtera" (pre-prosperous)
families, is based on criteria that may not be valid in urban areas and definitely have not captured
the extent to which the crisis has increased urban poverty. Second, many urban individuals and
families are not registered with a KTP in the location in which they live and hence will not be
included on lists of official residents eligible.
36.  In order to address those two problems, we have committed to expand urban coverage in
the next fiscal year. How exactly to implement this distribution is a difficult question and we are
currently working together with WFP to carry out a pilot project for the distribution of OPK rice
in urban areas, working cooperatively with NGO, religious, and other groups in the distribution.
Full reporting options for expansion of OPK in urban areas will be prepared. These may include
allowing local governments to work with civil and religious organizations, as will be specified in
implementing instructions.
37.  An estimated 11.2 million households have been identified as eligible for OPK based on
BKKPN data. We estimate that there may be an additional 2.2 million food insecure households
(KK) not identified in BKKBN data that could be reached. Further, we estimate that the 11.2
million sub-total of eligible households might grow by 3% per month (as was true last year) and
hence will make a budget allocation that could cover that possibility.
38.  We will define the next phase of the program's duration, including necessary routine
budget allocation. We remain committed to maintaining the current 20 kg/KK/month ration for
eligible households during the next phase.
39. PDM-DIKE. The PDM-DKE is an emergency program to address the crisis and hence was
designed to be implemented quickly utilizing existing institutional mechanisms. In revising the
program for the next fiscal year, we seek to change the design to remedy several of the problems
that emerged in implementation in this year. Design changes which we will make to PDM -
DKE for the FY1999/2000 program include expansion of the community decision making to
include elected representatives beyond LKMD, more extensive information dissemination and
tighter financial controls.
40.  Other specific design changes which will be included in the new manuals and instructions
will aim to:
* Improve the socialization so that more people know of the program and its decision
making structure.
* Improve the targeting of program benefits to the poor and those affected by the crisis.



Annex I
Page 8 of 13
*  Enhance the decision making process to be more representative and accountable to the
entire comrnmunity and give greater voice to the poor.
*  Increase the transparency by wider publication and information about who received the
program benefits, in what amounts and for what activities.
*  Improve the reporting and monitoring.
41.  Padat Karya: traditional.  Again, in the last fiscal year the existing programs of
employment creation suffered from many problems, many of which were unavoidable due to the
restrictions of the budget, the paucity of reliable data on the crisis, and the restrictions created by
external financing. In this year, these problems will be addressed in two ways. First, the
fractured nature of the programs will be eliminated, and duplication at the local levels avoided, in
order to streamline implementation and raise benefits reaching workers. Thus, the employment
creation program will be consolidated in one ministry (with one possible exception). This should
lead to much better information about the program and much less confusion about the various
programs, their design, decision making structures, and eligibility requirements and make
monitoring of employment creation much more straightforward.
42.  Second, the program is in the process of being completely redesigned to increase the cost
effectiveness in employment creation. Importantly, the design of the program will lead to
targeting by self selection. Using principles of keeping wages modestly below those prevailing in
local markets, only those who truly need work will choose to participate employment creation
programs. The new operating manual and instructions will reflect more cost effective designs,
including: a) revised technical and unit cost guidelines for contracting; c) standardized wage
rates (by class of labor) set below the market level for each type of labor; d) Kabupaten and kota
level civil society verification boards for project selection and oversight, and e) contract
provisions to ensure eligibility criteria applied by contractors in hiring labor.
43.  To inform the design changes for both the JPS community fund program (PDM-DKE) and
the padat karya , we plan to have an independent financial, technical and impact evaluation for all
padat karya and community fund programs carried out. From this we will develop a time-bound
action plan to improve operation of the PDM-DKE and will report on the success of our attempts
to improve the programs using the audit findings as the baseline.
44.  We also plan to revise our procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the contracting of local
community groups and non-profit organizations for implementation of any JPS activities, but
especially employment creation schemes, (particularly at kabupaten/kota level) such that they are
clarified and simplified.
45.  Padat Karya: Women 's employment. In the latest data, women are over 40 percent of the
unemployed, and yet in many areas in padat karya programs their participation has been very
low. This low participation was because many of the employment activities were exclusively for
activities that were not conducive to women's participation. We are committed to providing
employment creation programs tailored to meeting the needs of the unemployed, including
women, in two ways. First, a plan to increase women's participation in the Cipta Karya program
will be adopted. Second, as described in paragraph 23, we will create a Special Initiative for
Women's Unemployment.



Annex I
Page 9 of 13
46.  Education: For the scholarship program, we plan to build on existing design features.
Based on experiences during the first year of operation, we are planning to broaden the way we
are doing project monitoring, including expanding the role of civil society. We plan to more
closely involve parents, teachers and local leaders and we will enhance the role of the school
committees before the next school year begins in August 1999. We are reviewing the award
amounts and will update them to reflect actual costs, and we are refining selection indicators for
recipients.
47.  Health: The main challenge in health is to strengthen implementation. One design change
for the JPS health programs will be that we will start to reimburse hospitals which provide free
inpatient services for the poor. With the funds from this reimbursement, we expect that hospitals
will be able to increase the quality of services over time.
C.) SAFEGUARDING THE KEY SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROGRAMS
48.  Safeguarding represents our efforts to ensure that JPS programs can effectively reach the
targets and to prevent as far as possible corruption, collusion and nepotism (KKN) and tardiness
in the implementation of the program. These efforts represent a step in the framework of
reformation agenda to support efforts for overcoming crisis and leaks in state expenditures. We
are committed that the programs which are receiving budget in FY1999/2000 will be designed so
as to best address the problems the Indonesian people are facing, and are committed that these
funds will be well used and that the programs will be implemented as designed. In order to do
this, we will use existing mechanisms, but it will also undertake a set of innovations in the
safeguarding of resource use in government programs. The overall plan for safeguarding the use
of JPS resources has three elements: Government, a Control Team (Tim Pengendali) that
involves government and non-government elements, and the completely independent efforts of
civil society. All of these pieces would fit together and interact with the possibility of a
stakeholder's forum.
Government
49.  Our government efforts involve three, interrelated efforts.  First, through enhanced
monitoring efforts within each "key" social safety net program. Second, the efforts of an inter-
agency coordination team (tim koordinasi) chaired by Bappenas. And, third, regional efforts
coordinated by a government steering committee.
50.  Monitoring campaigns of "key" JPS programs.  As a first step, for FY1998/1999 JPS
programs, we have been collecting information on problems and complaints through various
channels including from investigations by local community organizations and non-profit
organizations, and are taking actions to resolve problems, including sanctions, in a public way.
We think that this is important to show that we are committed taking special action to safeguard
the JPS programs, which are meant to help the poor, from KKN. For the FY1999/2000 programs,
we are designing and will soon launch enhanced monitoring campaigns for each "key" safety net
program. We are committed to publishing a report of our investigations, together with corrective
actions and sanctions taken. We will provide budgets adequate to cover these extensive
monitoring plans. The level of budget associated with the safeguarding and monitoring of the
JPS is intended to empower "social control" over funds at the local level.



Annex I
Page 10 of 13
51.  The enhanced monitoring programs under preparation cover five points:
* Strengthening of internal monitoring and controls and regular reporting on physical
performance targets (e.g. tons of rice, scholarships received).
*  Independent verification of these reports carried on a sample "spot check" basis
(undertaken by the control team), and completed before tranche releases.
*  Information program to reach intended beneficiaries with necessary information about the
program, its budget, its decision making procedures, targeting and eligibility
requirements and mechanisms for complaint.
*  A complaint resolution mechanism  including mechanisms for rapid resolution of
complaints raised as well as a referral for sanctions for those guilty of violating the JPS
program.
*  Involvement of civil society at every level in the monitoring of the program.
52.  We will not authorize disbursement of funds for the FY1999/2000 key JPS programs until
after the orders for these five point monitoring programs, including budgets, have been issued.
53.  In carrying out these monitoring campaigns the tim pengendali and the tim koordinasi will
provide support and oversight.
54.  Tim Koordinasi. Bappenas has created an inter-agency coordination team that will be
responsible for monitoring the social safety net programs, resolving problems that arise, and
coordinating the activities of the various government elements of all of the safety net monitoring
activities. This team will also collect information on implementation performance for the "key"
JPS programs and will issue monthly reports detailing progress against annual targets (the extent
to which programs are reaching intended beneficiaries) and also will report monthly on
implementation of the five point monitoring plans.
55.  Regional In addition to the efforts above of integrated monitoring at the central level,
monitoring by the regions (province, kabupaten and kota) will also be started. To be able to see
the impact of various Social Safety Net (JPS) programs in the regions, it is necessary to have an
integrated monitoring in the region where various programs are implemented. Up to now the
monitoring is carried out per program separately. Monitoring in the region where several JPS
programs are being implemented will only be carried out according to each JPS program.
Considering that integrated monitoring represents new monitoring activities, this program can be
started with pilot projects in several districts. A pilot program will be established in some
provinces or kabupatne/kota jurisdictions with support from control team and line ministries,
including Home Affairs. Similarly, building on the experience of the pilot, which we will help to
disseminate, each local government (kabupaten/kota level) participating in JPS programs will
establish their own JPS monitoring mechanism, and include civil society representation.
Control Team (Tim Pengendali)
56.  Control team. To increase coordination of the implementation of JPS program, we have
established a Task Force for Increasing Social Safety Net through a recent Decree of the
President, #190, dated 3 November 1998. This Task Force represents cross sector organization



Annex I
Page 11 of 13
which has the function to expand and safeguard our JPS programs. The organization of this Task
Force consists of Guiding Team and Control Team, both of which are directly under the control
of the President.
57.  The Guiding Team is chaired by Coordination Minister for Economy, Finance and
Industry and the members consist of several Ministers , and has the task to formulate policy and
priority of JPS program.
58. The Control Team (Tim Pengendali) which is chaired by Mr. Mar'ie Muhammad has the
task to help the government in the control, monitoring and technical coordination of the
implementation of JPS program. In the presidential decree it is stipulated that in the
implementation of its tasks the Control Team can accept the help of international
institution/agency and community groups including local community groups and non-profit
organizations.
59.  For each of the key safety net programs the Control Team will provide:
*  Verification. In addition to regular reporting prepared periodically, random spot check
visits to program locations will be continued to check the correctness of the report of the
program implementation. These random spot checks would be done for each program
within one month of receipt of monthly performance reports to verify their findings.
*  Information campaign. In addition to the efforts of each program, information about JPS
programs will be spread through the existing government channels as well as mass media,
and continued in order that the JPS programs can be known to the community.
*  Complaint resolution. Complaints from the community represent feedback for improving
the implementation of JPS programs. For that it is necessary to have channel for
facilitating the complaints of the community and then find its solutions. The activities of
the control team will add three things to the complaint resolution activities carried out
within each JPS program. First, they will provide support to the design. Second, they
will provide reporting on the functioning of the programs. Third, they will serve as a
referral mechanism and alternative channel for systemic or difficult to resolve
complaints.
60.  The Control Team will also prepare monthly reports on its activities in these three areas,
including explanation of specific actions to remedy problems and a discussion of the final
outcome.
61.  To be able to see the progress of the implementation of each JPS programs and the impact
of the implementation of JPS programs on the target community hit by the economic crisis, an
evaluation system which has started to be implemented, will be continued and improved. The
control team will carry out its own evaluations of programs and policies, with the objective of
ensuring timely delivery and prevention of leakage.
Civil Society
62.  Of course the citizens and communities are the intended beneficiaries of the JPS programs.
Therefore they are central to the activities in monitoring. They will be involved in several ways
in addition to the efforts within each program detailed above. The participation of civil society



Annex I
Page 12 of 13
will, of course, depend on what we do to involve them and enable their participation. Our
strategy to involve civil society includes four elements: (i) consultation ; (ii) information and
transparency: (iii) cooperation with an independent monitoring team (should it be formed); and
(iv) help in obtaining outside funding for civil society monitoring efforts. Finally, these efforts
just one are part of a larger attack on KKN.
63.  Consultation. We are committed to involving civil society not only in the monitoring, but
also in the design of government programs. For this purpose, a series of meetings are being held
to disseminate the information about the JPS programs. Meetings are being held with local
community groups and non-profit organizations, labor organizations and employers' associations,
religious organizations, women's organizations, academic and research institutions and other
mass-based organizations.' We will receive comments (both verbal and written) on the JPS
programs and consider them before the finalization of the JPS programs.
64.  Information and transparency. In all our JPS programs our goal is to have greater
transparency allowing everyone to know exactly where the resources are flowing and how
resources pass from level to level. We are committed to making public the government orders
which are issued for the key JPS programs covering information disclosure, complaint resolution
and disciplinary procedures. To begin this process of transparency, we will undertake public
dissemination on budget allocations for FYI 998/1999 with detail on the budgets for each level of
government involved in the JPS programs. We will provide this information both to the lowest
levels of government and also to the public through multiple channels (e.g. regional newspapers,
direct civil society, public announcements). This information will be available at the
kabupaten/kota level in an integrated manner for the entire JPS and will be available to local
community groups, non-profit organizations and other interested groups.
65.  Building from this experience, we will publicly disseminate adequate information on the
FYl 999/2000 programs and budget allocations. We will hold local, public, open invitation,
meetings in at least three locations to announce JPS and monitoring programs and complaint
mechanisms.
66.  Separately from these disclosures on the rules of the programs and budgets, we plan to
establish a national clearinghouse for information on all safety net programs which shall issue
periodic reports, to increase the transparency with regard to the monitoring of the safety net
programs, especially about actual performance.
67.  Independent Monitoring Team. We are committed to interacting with an independent
monitoring team for the JPS, if civil society forms such a group. If parties are in agreement, we
would participate in a "stakeholder's forum" as a monthly activity in which the groups could can
raise issues on JPS programs. We would take such feedback on JPS program operation into
consideration and provide public written responses to issues raised.
68. Support to other Civil Society Monitoring Efforts. If we finance directly monitoring
efforts they will not be perceived as completely independent. But we have publicly and privately
expressed its support to independently financed efforts, either from domestic or donor resources,
for local community groups and non-profit organizations to undertake monitoring. Hopefully
these groups can use their memberships as a mechanism to provide information about the safety
net programs, and also as a source of information about problems to be resolved.



Annex I
Page 13 of 13
69. Attacking Corruption. This effort to involve civil society and people's groups more
actively in monitoring the JPS programs is just one part of a larger attack on KKN being carried
out through a) investigations into past abuses, b) reviewing contracts, agreements and policies
and changing those found to be influenced by KKN, c) eliminating restrictions and monopoly
practices that led to unfair advantage, d) establishing a new anti-corruption law that will lead to
improved practices. In addition, we are launching efforts to create a national consensus strategy
on how best to attack KKN and produce an effective government that meets the people's
aspirations.
70.  With the developing participation of the community in giving social control and facilitating
the aspirations of the conmmunity, special session of MPR on 13 November 1998 had issued a
decree about conducting the state which is clean and free of corruption, collusion and nepotism.
In the special session several other decrees had also been issued, among others main points of
development reformation in the field of economy, politics, legal, religion, and social culture. The
decrees represent strategic policy based on attacking corruption and on overcoming the crisis and
overall implementation of reformation by involving the active participation of the people and
more effective implementation of JPS programs.



Annex II: Policy Matrix for Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan
I) Safeguarding key safety net programs
Objective                 Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                         Second Tranche
Loan Agreement             Policy Matrix        Loan Agreement Second          Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                        Tranche
Effective         *  The Borrower shall    *  Specific corrective     *  The Borrower shall have *  Issuance of report from
implementation of    have completed a          actions taken against an  (a) developed a time-     the oversight team
key safety net       program of corrective     identified list of        bound monitoring,         detailing progress
programs             actions, acceptable to    problems in               evaluation and            satisfactory on annual
the Bank, with respect   implementation of         corrective action         performance targets (at
to the implementation    safety net programs.      program satisfactory to   least 80 percent) with
the Bank for the Key      independent spot
of the Key SSN        *  Public dissemination of   SSN Programs and the      verification of report
Programs.                agreed upon information   Special Initiative for    completed in at least
on budget allocations    Women's                   three months preceding
*  The Borrower shall have   for FY 98/99 with detail  Unemployment, and (b)     tranche release.
disseminated             for the SSN programs      implemented the actions
information, in          (to the lowest relevant   set out in three of the
accordance with          administrative level)     monthly schedules
guidelines acceptable to  both to the lowest       established under such
the Bank, on the Key     administrative level of   action program.
SSN Programs for the     government and to the
Fiscal Year 1998-1999    public through multiple
and on the budget        channels (e.g. regional
allocations with respect  newspapers, direct civil
thereto.                 society, public
announcements).
g



Objective                 Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                         Second Tranche
Loan Agreement             Policy Matrix        Loan Agreement Second          Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                        Tranche
Monitoring        *  For each of the Key    *  Government orders      *  The Borrower shall have *  Report from oversight
implementation of    SSN Programs to be        issued for each key       (a) developed a time-     team detailing progress
key programs to      funded under budgetary    social safety net         bound monitoring,         in implementing overall
ensure timely        allocations in the Fiscal  program providing        evaluation and            safeguarding program in
delivery and         Year 1999-2000 the        mutually agreed upon      corrective action         at least five of six key
prevent leakage.     Borrower shall (I) have   instructions for          program satisfactory to   programs in at least
issued orders acceptable    information            the Bank for the Key      three months preceding
to the Bank for the      dissemination and         SSN Programs and the      tranche release
following: (i) public    transparency, complaint   Special Initiative for
information campaigns    resolution and            Women's                *  Report detailing control
and information          prosecution referral      Unemployment, and (b)     team activities,
dissemination            procedures, regular       implemented the actions   including oversight of
procedures; (ii)         reporting on              set out in three of the   programs, complaints,
complaint resolution and  performance targets,     monthly schedules         information, including
disciplinary procedures;    independent            established under such    specific actions take to
(iii) reporting and      verification, community   action program.           remedy problems in at
verification             and civil society                                   least three months
arrangements with        involvement.                                        preceding tranche
respect to performance                                                       release.
targets; and (iv)     *  Adequate funding for
independent              carrying out these
performance rionitoring  activities provided for in
arrangements; and (II)   the program budgets and
have made adequate       funds for oversight of
budgetary provision (as  these activities.
determined on the basis
of criteria acceptable to
the Bank ) for the
carrying out of the
activities referred to in
(I) of this paragraph (c).
.                                                                                        n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



Objective                    Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                     Second Tranche
Loan Agreement           Policy Matrix      Loan Agreement Second        Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                    Tranche
Increased consultation,                        *  Local, public, open  *  The Borrower shall    *  Issuance of report
transparency and                                  invitation, meetings    have (a) developed a    from the oversight
increased civil society                           held in at least three  time-bound              team detailing the
engagement.                                       locations to announce   monitoring, evaluation  holding of three
SSN and monitoring     and corrective action   monthly consultations
programs and           program satisfactory     with IMT (if in
complaints.            to the Bank for the      existence) on project
Key SSN Programs        performance and
*  Public consultation     and the Special         monitoring issues,
process followed in    Initiative for Women's   with written response
the design of key SSN  Unemployment, and        by Government to the
programs for FY         (b) implemented the     IMT on issues raised
99/00 before           actions set out in three  by IMT at each such
finalization of        of the monthly          consultation.
operational manuals    schedules established
and implementing       under such action
procedures.            program.



Objective                      Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                       Second Tranche
Loan Agreement             Policy Matrix        Loan Agreement           Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                  Second Tranche
Enhance the effectiveness   *  For each of the Key SSN  *  Information     *  The Borrower shall  *  Publication of
and credibility of         Programs funded under        available to all and   have disseminated      detailed information
monitoring of government   budgetary allocations in the  provided to          information, in         on FY 99/00
programs through           Fiscal Year 1998-1999, the  interested groups       accordance with        programs and budget
increased information      Borrower shall have made     (e.g. NGOs, mass       guidelines             allocations (adjusted
dissemination.             available to interested      based organizations)   acceptable to the      based on experience
groups (as determined on    and independent        Bank, on the Key       with implementation
the basis of criteria       monitoring team (if    SSN Programs for       of Board presentation
acceptable to the Bank)     in existence)         the Fiscal Year 1999    condition).
detailed budget information  covering: a) details  - 2000 and on the
thereon; and (ii) for each of  of planned public   budget allocations
the Key SSN Programs to     information            with respect thereto.
be funded under budgetary   campaigns and                              *  Establishment of
allocations in the Fiscal   information                                   Social Safety Net
Year 1999-2000, the         dissemination                                 Infornation
Borrower shall have made    procedures (see                               Clearinghouse and
available to said interested  above), b) complaint                        publication of first
groups adequate budgetary   resolution and                                report
information thereon and the  procedures for
Borrower's orders for the   prosecution (see
public information          above); c) detailed
campaigns, information      budget information
dissemination procedures    for FY 98/99 (see
and complaint resolution    above)
and disciplinary procedures
referred to in Section 5.01
(c) of this Agreement.
4_



Objective                     Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                      Second Tranche
Loan Agreement           Policy Matrix       Loan Agreement Second        Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                     Tranche
Improve Regional                                *  Establish a pilot     *  The Borrower shall    *  Each local government
Management of SSN                                  program in a number      have established at      (Tkt. 2 level)
programs.                                           of provinces or tingkat  each district level a   participating in SSN
II jurisdictions with   monitoring system in     programs to have
support from control    accordance with         established their own
team and line           guidelines acceptable    operational SSN
ministries, including  to the Bank.              monitoring
Home Affairs.                                    mechanism, with each
including civil society
representation.
U K4



II) Protect Expenditures Crucial for the Poorl
Objective                                                 Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness
Loan Agreement                                       Policy Matrix
Effectiveness
Use scarce fiscal resources                        *  Proposed budgetary allocations and utilization in FY99/00 for Social Safety Net
effectively to reach the                               programs to be designed acceptable to the Bank.
poor and those suffering
from the crisis.                                   *  Elimination of any budget to programs conducted by Forestry, Agriculture,
Manpower, and Public Works justified as "Safety Net" due to the padat karya
nature of the activity. Consolidate all such proposed budgets in a single
ministry/financing mechanism with a resulting total budget allocation not to
exceed one trillion rupiah.
Maintain coverage and                              *  Review education expenditures (as opposed to allocations) for 1998/99 and revise
quality of education                                   budgets in line with overall strategy.
*  Maintain at least the same level of education development budget allocation, in
real terms (yet to be defined), in 1999/00 budget as in 1998/99 budget for basic
and secondary education sub-sector.
*  Increase budgetary allocations for non-formal/community education programs.
*  Adequate amounts are provided in the 1999/00 national development budget for
the scholarship and block grants program.
'Social safety net budget expenditures crucial to the poor were protected through policy agreements under the proposed Second Policy Reform Support Loan as part of
agreement on a sound macroeconomic framework. Improved targeting of geographical allocations will be supported by this proposed loan.



Objective                                                Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness
Loan Agreement                                      Policy Matrix
Effectiveness
Maintain quality of health                        *  The Government will ensure budget provisions for FY 1999/2000 for health center
services                                             and health sub center operational costs (including medicines and consumables) are
at least at the same levels in real terms (yet to be defined) as in FY 1996/1997.
*  The Government will maintain development budget allocations to health, family
planning and nutrition as a share of the national budget for FY 1999/2000 same
level as in FY 1996/1997.
*  Government in allocating budget to district will consider the indicators of health
status and a poverty index in addition to population..
Improve targeting of     *  The Borrower shall    *   Mutually agreed upon geographical targeting criteria and allocations, formally
limited budget so that poor  have established social  announced for all key social safety net programs in FY99/00.
areas and those hardest hit  safety net expenditure
receive largest allocations.  geographical
allocations, acceptable
to the Bank, within the
framework of the
Fiscal Year 1999/2000
fiscal budget approved
by Parliament.
- P4



III) Improve Safety Net Program Design
Objective                      Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                       Second Tranche
Loan Agreement            Policy Matrix       Loan Agreement Second         Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                      Tranche
Improve the performance                                                   *  For each of the Key   *  For each key SSN
of future safety net                                                         SSN Programs and the     program the Bank
programs through                                                             Special Initiative for    shall have approved
improved design.                                                             Women's                   operational manuals
Unemployment for the     and implementation
Fiscal Year 1999 -       procedures (or revision
2000, the Borrower      thereof). This
shall have issued        agreement must
operational manuals      precede any
and implementation       authorization of
procedures acceptable   spending authority or
to the Bank. For PDM-    disbursements on FY
DKE and PKSPU-CK         99/00 community fund
for the Fiscal Year      or program/sector
1999-2000, the          budgets involving
Borrower shall have     padat karya.
issued such
operational manuals
and implementation
procedures prior to the
issuance of any
spending authorization
in respect thereof.
00"



Objective                     Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                       Second Tranche
Loan Agreement           Policy Matrix       Loan Agreement Second         Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                      Tranche
OPK: Improved targeting                         *  Definition of the next  .  The Borrower shall    *  Carry out and
to hard hit persons not                             phase of the program's    have (a) issued a      complete report on an
currently reached by the                            duration, including     report of a study and    expansion of options
program, improve                                    necessary routine       set of                   for OPK urban
implementation in urban                             budget allocation.      recommendations,         distribution
areas.                                                                      carried out and          mechanisms from
*  Commitment to            distributed in          which local
maintaining the current    accordance with terms  governments can
ration of 20            of reference and         choose, including
kg/household/month      distribution plan        RW/RT, civil and
for eligible households  acceptable to the Bank,    religious organizations
during the next phase.  on the options for OPK   and issue
distribution            implementing
.  Limit expansion of      mechanisms to be         instructions for these
rural coverage          made available to local    recommendations.
governments in
Indonesia; and (b)
commenced
implementation of an
action program based
on said report.



Objective                      Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                        Second Tranche
Loan Agreement            Policy Matrix       Loan Agreement Second          Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                       Tranche
Padat Karya and                                   .  For all padat karya                            *  Revision of technical
Community Fund:                                      activities and                                     and unit cost
Eliminate fractured nature                           community funds                                    guidelines for
of programs avoid overlap                            which are eligible for                             contracting.
at local level, improve and                          disbursements of FY
streamline implementation,                           98/99 funds in FY     *  The Borrower shall    *  Revision of
raise benefits reaching                              99/00 issue              have established          procedures, mutually
workers.                                             instructions,            procedures, in            agreed upon, for
acceptable to the Bank   accordance with          contracting NGOs for
and based on all         guidelines acceptable    implementation of
available evaluations   to the Bank, for          SSN activities
to district and sub-     contracting with non-    (particularly at TK2
district heads and       governmental             level) that are clarified
project managers to      organizations for the    and simplified.
ensure implementation    monitoring and
adheres to operational  implementation of
procedures.              each of the Key SSN
Programs for the
Fiscal Year 1999-
2000.
o 'M



Objective                       Board Presentation/Loan Effectiveness                         Second Tranche
Loan Agreement             Policy Matrix           Loan Agreement             Policy Matrix
Effectiveness                                     Second Tranche
Scholarship Program:                                                                            *  Carry out annual review of
Improved targeting and                                                                             award amounts to better reflect
recipient selection                                                                                need.
*  Plan for consistent broader
monitoring structures, broader
inclusion of civil society,
stricter application and
enhanced role for school
committees before next school
year begins (August 1999).
*  Improved targeting of awards
and selection of recipients
using refined indicators of
need.
Health: Increased access of                 *  Provide reimbursement based
the poor to quality services                    on current tariff to hospitals
which provide free inpatient
hospital services for the poor
hospitalized in Class III. In
time this reimbursement
should enable hospitals to
acquire additional revenue or
budget to increase quality of
services and additional
consumables.
t-m
0



Annex 3A
Page 1 of 2
Indonesia at a glance                                                                4/26/99
JEWa    Lower-            __
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia &   middle-
Indonesia    Pacific   income      Development dlamond*
1997
Population, mid..yeaf (mlions)                       200,.1     1.753     2,28                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$)                    1,110       970     1,230 
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billons)                       222:1     1.707     2,818
Average aninual growth, 1991-97
Population I(%)                                         1.6       1:3       1.2      GNGrs
Labor force (%                                          2.5       14        13       Gpe                             Grossr
most recoMestetmate (Iatest.year avallabw, 1991.97)                                  caiaenrollment
Poverty (% of populatn below national povertyline)
Urban population (% oftotal population)                 37         32        42
Life expectanicy at bIrth (years                        68         68:       89
Infant mortality. (per 1,000 live bIrths                47:        38        56
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              40,        18         ,               Access to safe water
Access to safe water,(% of populatIon                   62         84        84
liliteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     18~        17        19
Gross primary enrollmrent :(% Of school-age PoPulton)  114        11$       114              Indonesia
Male                                                 4t17       120      1-16              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                112   ~  119        113      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and; LONG-TER TRENDS
1976     198$      1996      1997
Economic ratloe
GOP (US$ bfflions)                           39.3      79.9     227.4     215.0
Gross domestic investmentVGOP                24.1      26.7      32.1      30.9                     Trade
Exports Of goods and services/GDP            24.5      20.2      25.8      2.0'
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   27.1      26.31     31.5      30.8T
Gross national savings/GOP                      .        ..      28.7      26.2
Current account balanceGOP                      .        ..       -3.5      -0.8     Dmsi
Interest payments/GDP                          1.2      3.0       2.2       2.4      Dovinsti                    Investment
Total debt/GOP                               3586      53,7      56.7      58.4      Saig
Total debt servicelexports                      .        ..      35.8      30.7
Present value of debt/GOP                       ..       .          .      59.8
Present value of debt/exports                   ...                       199.8
Indebtedness
1976-96  198-97      1996      1997   199B421
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  6.7      7.9      7t8        4.9             [            ndonesl a
GIIP per capIta                      4.1       6.2      7.8       2.7         .Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -1.7      S.8       8.2       7.8         ..    _________________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY____ ___________
11976    1986      199       1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%/)
(%1o GDP)                                                                          2
Agriculture                                   29.7     24.3      15.4       14.8    1
Industry                                     34.1      33.8      43.0      43.3
Manufacturing                               10.4     16.8       24.7      25.1    10
Services                                     36.3      41.9      41.6      41.9       I
Private consumption                          63.5      62.6      62.1      63.1             92   93   94   9    99   97
General govemment consumption                  9.4     11.1       7.7       7.3                  - D         --D
Imports of goods and serices                 2`1.5     20.5      29.4      32.2                     G01       GD
(average anual growth)1976486  1987-97                1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports(%
Agriculture                                    4.1      3.2       3.3        0.7    25
Industry                                       6.5     10.0      10.7       5.6    20
Manufacturing                               14.5     11.0       11.7       6.4    is
Services                                       8.7      7.9       6.6       5.7    1o
Private consumption                          10.0       8.1      19.1       8.8 
General govemment consumption                  9.2      3.8       0.7       0.1      0_________________
Gross domesticinvestment                     10.8      11.0      12.9       8.6            92   93   94   95   9o   97
Imports of goods and services                 7.3      11.7      17.2      14.7                   Exports    -   l-mports
Gross national product                         6.2      8.0       9.3       4.3    _____________________
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete. -On the basis of Govemment of Indonesia data (BPS,BI), April 1999.



Annex 3A
Page 2 of 2
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997      nfatlon I%)
Domestic prIces
(% change)                                                                      15
Consumerprices                                ..      5.7       6.6     11.6     0                        -_
Implicit GDP deflator                       15.4    -0.2        9.0     11.7     s
5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                ..    15.9      16.5     15.9            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                               -4.6       7.0      5.5             -    GDP deflator    S  CPI
Overall surplusideficit                       ..       ..       1.1      0.9          |-
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  13,673    49,815    53,547    60,000
Commodity 1                                  ..   6,964    11,722   11,603     s00001
Commodity 2                                  ..    752      1,894     1 505
Manufactures                                ..   2,747    21,210    18,568                         M IL_
Total imports (cif)                           ..  12,760    42,929   41,680    30.000
Food                                        ..  711  4,357  3,796  200001131111
Fuel and energy                             ..   2,375      3,607    3,924    10000
Capital goods                               ..   5,005    19,973   19,558         0
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..        ..       ..                91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        ..       ..                a Exports     c Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       .._.._..____
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(LIS$ miltions)                            1976    1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..   59,129   62,997      0
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..   54,167    50,124
Resource balance                              ..       ..    4,962   12,873    .1
Net income                                     ..      ..  -12,781   -11,297
Net current transfers                         ..       ..     -250   -3,275    -21'i
Current account balance                        ..            -8,069   -1t699      3
Financing items (net)                                  ..   14,169  -11,601
Changes in net reserves                        ..      ..   -6,100   13,300   | 4
Memro:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)         ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/S$)            415.0  1,282.6   2,342.3   2,909.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      14,010   42,916   128,941   136,174
IBRD                                      213    5,058    11,139    9,991                         A:9,991
IDA                                       418      857       736       715         G:536,004              C 2.970
Total debt service                         1,340    5,984    21,539    19,736                                  D: 5,094
IBRD                                        4      636      2,249    1,848               .
IDA                                         2       12        26        26
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               E: 26,725
Official grants                             59     136        190      183
Official creditors                         839    1,016      -792      535
Private creditors                        1,314     528      6,874    5,888                                /
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..        ..
Portfolio equity                            0        0      3,099      298
F: 54,675
World Bank program
Commitments                                                                    A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             257      828       905       899     B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         1     236      1,429    1,165     c - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                 256      592       -523     -266
Interest payments                           6      411       846       709
Net transfers                             250      181    -1,370      -975
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                    4/26199



Annex 3B
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA: Key Economic & Exposure Indicators - Base Case
FY96/97  FY97/98  FY98/99  FY99100  FYO0/Ol   FY01/02
Actual  Estimated               Projected ---
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Growth rates:
Real GDP                                          8.3       1.4     -15.6      -1.0       3.0         5.0
Consumption                                       8.0       3.9      -5.0      -0.9       3.5         3.6
Investment ( GDFI)                               12.1     -16.5     -64.5       6.2       9.1        30.2
Real GDP percapita                                5.5      -0.1     -16.8       -2.4       1.6        3.6
Consumption per capita                            5.3       2.4      -6.4       -2.3      2.1         2.3
Share of GDP:
Investment                                       32.3      29.5      14.3      14.4       15.2       18.2
National Private Savings                         22.2      22.9      16.7      16.8       15.9       14.7
Government Deficit(-)/GDP I/                      1.1       0.9      -2.5      -5.8      -5.0        -2.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export volume growth rate (Merch. FOB)             6.2       13.2      -3.8       1.8       3.3        5.9
Import volume growth rate (Merch. CIF)            10.4       -3.7     -26.4       5.9       7.2       15.0
Exports (Merch. FOB) (US$Billion)                 52.1      56.2       48.7      51.6      56.2       61.5
Imports (Merch. CIF) (US$Billion)                 50.9      47.5       36.3      39.5      43.7       51.5
Non-oil merch. export growth rate in US$ (%)      5.8      16.6      -8.8       6.5        7.2        9.7
Export growth rate (FOB, % p.a. US$)               9.0       8.0     -13.3       6.0        8.9        9.4
Import growth rate (CIF, % p.a. US$)              10.3      -6.5     -23.5       8.7       10.8       17.8
Current Account Balance (US$Billion)              -7.8       -1.6       4.5       4.0       3.0         1.0
Current Account Balance/GDP (%)                    -3.4     -1.1        4.1       2.4       1.7        0.5
Gross Reserves (months imports GNFS)               5.6       3.9        7.4       7.6       7.4        6.2
EXTERNAL DEBT
Total DOD (US$Billion) 2/                        128.9      136.2     150.9     144.0     138.0       134.0
M&LT+IMF DOD (US$Billion)                        96.7      97.8     121.9      115.0     109.0      105.0
Public & Publicly Guaranteed Debt (US$Billion)   60.0      55.9      67.3      72.1      73.5        71.5
Total Debt/GDP (%)                                55.5      91.0      139.1      85.7      77.7       70.0
Debt Service Paid (M&LT+IMF+ST)(US$Billion) y     21.5      23.7       20.8      20.1      21.1       20.4
Amortization Paid (US$Billion) 3/                14.9      17.0      14.7       12.9      13.7       13.3
Interest Burden (US$Billion)                      6.6       6.7       6.1       7.2       7.4         7.1
Total Debt Service Paid/Exports(GNFS) (%)         37.1      38.3       37.3      34.3      33.4       29.6
EXPOSURE INDICATORS
TDO/XGS (%)                                     214.0     211.1     210.4     193.0      171.7      152.5
Concessional/TDO (%)                              4.0       3.6       3.6       3.9       4.0         4.1
IBRD exposure indicators
IBRDDS/publicDS(%)                               19.1      20.7      17.9      25.4       18.2       12.9
IBRD DS/total DS (%)                             10.4       9.4       6.0        8.1       6.8        6.7
Preffered creditor DS/public DS (%)              35.9      30.2      30.6      46.3       37.6       52.4
IBRD DS/XGS (%)                                   3.7       2.9       2.3       2.5        1.9        1.7
IBRDTDO(US$Billion)                              11.1      10.0      10.7       12.2      13.1       13.3
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)                      10.2       9.3       9.2       9.6        9.5        9.2
IBRD TDO/TDO (%)                                  8.6       7.3       7.1       8.5        9.5        9.9
IDA TDO (US$Million)                            735.5     715.2     694.2     733.9      852.1      978.8
1/ Incorporates available Government fiscal data as of March 1999.
2/ Includes IMP purchases.
3/ Includes August 1998 Paris Club Agreement and estimated London Club Agreement.
Source: Government of Indonesia and World Bank staffestimates.



Annex 3C
Page 1 of I
INDONESIA: Balance of Payments (US$ Billion)
FY96/97  FY97/98   FY98/99 FY99/00 FYOO/O1  FY01/02
Actual Estimated           -Projected
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                       52.1      56.2       48.7    51.6    56.2       61.5
Oil&GasExports                                 12.8     10.4        7.1      7.3      8.8      9.3
NonOil&GasExports                              39.3     45.8       41.6    44.3    47.5       52.1
Nonfactor Services                               6.0       5.7        7.0      7.0      6.9      7.6
Exports of GNFS                                  58.1      61.9       55.7    58.6    63.2       68.9
Merchandise Imports (CIF)                      -50.9    -47.5       -36.3   -39.5   -43.7    -51.5
Nonfactor Services                               -6.1     -5.9       -5.1    -5.5    -6.2       -6.8
Imports of GNFS                                 -57.0    -53.4       -41.4   -45.0   -49.9    -58.3
Resource Balance                                  1.1       8.6       14.2    13.6    13.2       10.6
Net Factor Income and Transfers                   -8.9    -10.1       -9.7    -9.7   -10.2       -9.6
Current Account Balance                           -7.8     -1.6        4.5      4.0      3.0      1.0
Capital Account Balance (excl. net IMF)          14.0      -8.6       -2.7    -2.1    -1.5        0.7
NetDisbursmentofGov'tM&LT debt                  0.0       1.2        5.0      2.6      0.3     -1.0
Disbursments                                   6.4       5.3        9.1      6.2      5.8      5.0
Amortization                                   6.4       4.1        4.1      3.4      5.5      6.0
Foreign Direct Investment (equity) *             2.0      0.5        0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3
Net Other Capital (incl. priv. debt&portfolio)  12.1    -10.3        -7.8    -5.0    -2.1        1.4
Change in Net Foreign Assets (-= increase)       -6.2      10.2       -1.8    -1.9    -1.5       -1.7
Memo Items:
CurrentAccountBalance/GDP(%)                   -3.4      -1.1        4.1      2.4      1.7      0.5
Export real growth rate (Merch FOB) (%/6)       6.2      13.2       -3.8      1.8      3.3      5.9
Non-oil merch. export growth rate in US$ (%)   5.8     16.6       -8.8      6.5      7.2      9.7
Import real growth rate (Merch CIF) (%/.)      10.4      -3.7      -26.4      5.9      7.2     15.0
* In FY96/97 an estimated 70% of this is actually intemational borrowing by local participants;
in the projected years this borrowing is included in M&LT borrowing.
Source: Govemment of Indonesia and World Bank staff estimates.



Generated: 04/25/99
Annex IV
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US5 Millions                 and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                     __      ___                                         disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project tD    Year               Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.      Drig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj  lImp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 211
Active Projects
ID-PE-3922      1991   GOI                              SULAWESI/IRIAN JAYA                    100.00        0.00        0.00         1.78         1.76        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-3997      1992   GOI                              TELECOM IV                             375.00        0.00       50.08        57.23      107.29        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3969      1992   GOI                              PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH                    36.60        0.00        3.20         2.91        6.11        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3966      1992   GOI                              NON-FORMAL EDUC III                     69.50        0.00        3.10           .49       3.57         1.97      S          S
ID-PE-3940      1992   GOI                              PRIMARY EDUC QUALITY IMPROVE            37.00        0.00        0.00        10.00        10.00        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-3928      1992   GOI                              AGRICULTURAL FINANCI                   106.10        0.00       10.79        28.04       38.84         0.00      S          S
ID-PE-3916      1992                                    SURALAYA THERMAL POW                   423.60        0.00      132.20        24.15      148.73         -.28      U          S
ID-PE-3860      1992   GOI                              TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE                    87.60        0.00        0.00        21.34        19.76        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-4009      1993   GOI                              INTEGRATED PEST MGMT                    32.00        0.00        5.50         5.05       10.55        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-4007      1993   GOI                              POWER (CIRATA II)                      104.00        0.00       26.00        29.46       53.50        -.12       U          S
ID-PE-4006      1993   GOI                              E.INDONESIA KABUPATE                   155.00        0.00        0.00        15.95       15.92        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3999      1993   GOI                              GROUNDWATER DEVT.                       54.00        0.00       18.94         8.88       18.22         1.57      U          U
ID-PE-3990      1993   GOI                              WTR & SANI FOR LOW r                    80.00        0.00       11.00        26.73       37.75       24.95       S          S
ID-PE-3914      1993   GOI                              THIRD COMM HEALTH &                     93.50        0.00       16.00         7.82       15.30        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-4020      1994   GOI                              KABUPATEN ROADS V                      101.50        0.00        0.00        17.06        15.06        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-4017      1994   GOI                              UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR                    58.90        0.00        0.00        29.34        17.46        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-4010      1994   GOI                              DAM SAFETY                              55.00        0.00        0.00        34.14       24.39         0.00      S          U
ID-PE-3998      1994   GOI                              SURABAYA URBAN                         175.00        0.00        0.00       100.33        67.34       13.76      S          U
ID-PE-3985      1994   GOI                              WTRSHED CONSERVATION                    56.50        0.00        0.00        42.06        25.16        0.00      HU         U
ID-PE-3954      1994   GOI                              JAVA IRR IMP & W R M                   165.70        0.00        0.00        95.10        56.57        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-3945      1994   GOI                              HIGHWAY SECTOR II                      350.00        0.00        0.00       167.29       142.27    -182.73       S          S
ID-PE-3937      1994   GOI                              INTEGRATED SWAMPS                       65.00        0.00        0.00        32.10        18.78        0.00      U          U
ID-PE-3910      1994   GOI                              SUMATERA 6 KALIMAN P                   260.50        0.00       20.00       174.19      152.19        -1.00      U          S
ID-PE-3890      1994   GOI                              SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U                   174.00        0.00        3.67        85.04       52.51        13.09      S          S
ID-PE-39754     1995                                    TA FOR INFRA. II                        28.00        0.00        0.00        23.31       20.51         1.85      S          S
ID-PE-4019      1995   GOI                              ACCOUNTANCY DEV II                      25.00        0.00        0.00        13.83       12.11        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-4001      1995   GOI                              TELECOM SECTOR MODER                   325.00        0.00       50.00       205.47      140.47         0.00     HS          S
ID-PE-3988      1995   GOI                              PHRD II                                 69.00        0.00        0.00        30.95         9.93        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-3984      1995   GOI                              LAND ADMINISTRATION                     80.00        0.00        0.00        46.52       24.04         0.00      S          S
ID-PE-3979      1995   GOI                              RURAL ELECT II                         398.00        0.00       39.90       127.00      161.30         0.00      U          S
ID-PE-3972      1995   GOI                              AG. RESEARCH II                         63.00        0.00        6.00        46.35       32.34          .01      S          S
ID-PE-3968      1995                                    BOOK & READING DEV                     132.50        0.00       31.50        80.08       24.08        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3965      1995   GOI                              HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT                    88.00        0.00       20.00        52.13       24.12        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3951      1995   GOI                              KALIMANTAN UDP                         136.00        0.00        0.00        62.38        52.37        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-41896     1996   GOI                              HR CAPACITY BUILDING                    20.00        0.00        3.60        15.04         9.64        0.00     NA          NA
ID-PE-39643     1996   GOI                              STD/AIDS                                24.80        0.00       19.80          1.97       18.98        0.00     NA          NA
ID-PE-39312     1996   GOI                              SECOND E. JAVA UDP                     142.70        0.00        0.00       122.77       100.77        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-37097     1996   GOI                              E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                        99.00        0.00        0.00        81.38         6.88        0.00      S          S
ID-PE-4021      1996   GOI                               POW. TRANS & DIST II                  373.00        0.00       80.00       203.49       213.08       -7.31      U          U
ID-PE-4016      1996   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA            STRATEGIC URB. RDS I                    86.90        0.00        0.00        75.04        31.35        0.00      S           U
ID-PE-4014      1996   GOI                              KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                     19.10        0.00        0.00        18.34         6.23        0.00      S          S       OQ
ID-PE-4011      1996   GOI                              SULAWESI AGRI AREA                      26.80        0.00        0.00        21.40         1.89        0.00      U          U        _
ID-PE-4008      1996   GOI                              NUSA TENGGARA DEV.                      27.00        0.00        0.00        22.32         5.54       0.00       U          U       0  x
ID-PE-4004      1996   GOI                              HIGHER EDUC SUP.(III                    65.00        0.00        0.00        46.73         1.20       0.00       S          S  _
Generated by the Operations Infornation System (OIS)



Generated: 04125/99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                 and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID   'Year               Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
ID-PE-4003      1996   GOI                              SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA                    60.40        0.00        0.00        50.24       28.91        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3978      1996   GOI                              IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV                    47.00        0.00        6.00        25.08       22.40        0.00       s          U
ID-PE-49051    1997                                     BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P                    16.40        0.00        0.00        14.11        1.99        0.00       S          U
ID-PE-42540    1997                                     IODINE DEF. CONTROL                     28.50        0.00        2.50        23.70        2.70        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-41894     1997   GOI                              SUMATRA SEC EDUC                        98.00        0.00        0.00        83.72        3.71        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-40521    1997   GOI                               VILLAGE INFRA II                       140.10        0.00        0.00        92.25       49.66       21.19       S          S
ID-PE-40195    1997   GOI                               QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED                    71.20        0.00        0.00        66.04        5.84        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-36053    1997   GOI                               SULAWESI UDP II                        155.00        0.00         .05       139.65       59.00        -.35       S          S
ID-PE-36047    1997   GOI                               BALI URBAN INFRAST.                    110.00        0.00        0.00       104.74        3.03       -1.64       S          S
ID-PE-35544    1997   GOI                               SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS                      20.00        0.00        2.50        17.50        4.00        0.00       U          U
ID-PE-4026      1997   GOI/PERUMKA                      RLWY EFFICIENCY                        105.00        0.00        0.00       103.60       25.60        0.00       S          U
ID-PE-3987      1997                                    C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.                   104.00        0.00        0.00        96.89       24.18        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-55755    1998   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             BANKING REFORM ASST.                    20.00        0.00        0.00        14.77       14.77        0.00       S          U
ID-PE-48715    1998                                     IIDP                                    34.50        0.00        8.50        24.70        5.72        5.95       S          S
ID-PE-45337    1998   GOI                               KECAMATAN DEV FUND                     225.00        0.00        0.00       213.75       -5.00        0.00      HS          S
ID-PE-40061    1998   GOI                               BENGKULU REG DEV                        20.50        0.00        0.00        19.90          .90       0.00       S          S
ID-PE-39644    1998   GOI                               W.JAVA BASIC EDUC.                     103.50        0.00        0.00       100.50       -2.00        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-37095    1998   GOI                               MALUKU REG. DEV                         16.30        0.00        0.00        15.65          .65       0.00       S          S
ID-PE-36956    1998   GOI                               SAFE MOTHERHOOD                         42.50        0.00        6.00        34.99        4.98        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-36048    1998   GOI                               CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                     6.90        0.00        0.00         6.40          .10       0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3993      1998   GOI                              N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS                   234.00        0.00        0.00       234.00        4.00        0.00       S          U
ID-PE-56230    1999                                     SAL I(POLICY REFORM)                 1,000.00        0.00        0.00       400.00    -600.00         0.00
ID-PE-36049    1999   GOI                               EARLY CHILD DEVELOPM                    21.50        0.00        0.00        21.50        0.00        0.00
ID-PE-3967      1999   GOI                              FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                    44.70        0.00        0.00        43.70       -1.00        0.00       S          S
Total                                                                                        8,169.80        0.00      576.83    4,260.36   1,610.00    -109.09
Active Projects      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               3,332.63          16,388.95           19,721.58
of which has been repaid:                 44.16            8,173.80            8,217.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               7,548.76           8,239.24           15,788.00
Amount sold                                       0.00               88.08               88.08
Of which repaid              :                 0.00              88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed                :           4,260.36               24.16            4,284.52
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
to 
o>
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex V
Page 1 of 5
Annex V: Bank-Civil Society Consultation Process on Adjustment Lending and CAS
Interim Report and Government-Civil Society Consultation on Safety Nets
Program and Loan Package
Policy Reform Support Loan II (PRSLII) $500 million
Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL) $600 million
Water Structural Adjustment Loan (WatSECAL) $300 million
Country Assistance.Strategy CAS (Interim Report)
Given the political and economic uncertainty in Indonesia and the potentially divisive issues with
which we are dealing, we felt it not only necessary, but essential to embark upon an intensive period of
public consultation. We consulted both on the package of integrated adjustment operations and their
associated reforms, and on the CAS strategy to govern our program in Indonesia over the next six to
twelve months. Our goal is to seek civil society engagement and eventual buy-in and support for Bank
programs, to help us carry out our broad agenda of short-term poverty relief programs and long-term
economic reforns that will build the foundation to sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. We sought
to overcome critical attitudes by having honest and open dialogue, explaining our program fully and the
associated risks, benefits, and trade-offs.
I. Consultations with Government, Civil Society and Major Donors
A summary of consultations is listed below (this list is not inclusive and does not cover some of the
actions under preparation for further inclusion in Bank programs and projects).
Action               Results
09/16 (PRSLI)       Meeting with representatives of major donors (EU, DFID, USAID, GTZ, ADB/ASEAN
Forestry donors &    RETA Project); Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops (MoFEC), UNESCO; ICRAF; Ford
officials            Foundation re Bank's draft Indonesian forestry issues paper and solicit policy reform
recommendations for next SAL.
09/17 (PRSLII)      Meeting with 13 NGOs concerned with social forestry and forest management, organized at
Forestry sector NGOs   Ford Foundation, Jakarta
09/17 (PRSLII)      Meeting with the MoFEC Reform Committee to discuss its recommendations on forestry
Forestry committee  policy, MoFEC organization, and relationship to possible Bank policy reforms
10105 (WatSAL)      Meeting co-chaired by General Secretary of MoFEC Reform Committee with NGOs to
WatSAL NGOs         formulate the consultation process for WatSAL.
10/08 (PRSLII)      Meeting with local and international representatives of WB-WWF Alliance for Forest
WB-WWF Alliance    Conservation and Sustainable Use to discuss potential for Alliance involvement in preparation
of ForSAL. Meeting planned for ID NGOs interested in forest conservation.
10115 (WatSAL)      Meeting with BAPPENAS and NGOs (LP3ES and SKEPHI) to make final plans for WatSAL
Govt/NGOs            consultations at provincial and district levels, to be carried out in Nov & Dec.
10122 (PRSLII)      Meeting with Indonesian Executive Directors of WWF, The Nature Conservancy (TNC), and
Forestry NGOs        Conservation International (CI)
10/30 (PRSLII)      WWF, CI and TNC convened dinner meeting of more than 30 people representing 25
Forestry NGOs        conservation NGOs, MoFEC, the press, and several donors.



Annex V
Page 2 of 5
10/30 (PRSLII)       WWF, CI and TNC convened dinner meeting of more than 30 people representing 25
Forestry NGOs        conservation NGOs, MoFEC, the press, and several donors.
11/06 (SSN/GOV)      Donors outlined areas for coordination and support on activities related to Bank's proposed
Donors               Social Safety Net and Governance/Anti-Corruption operations. Broadly supportive,
emphasized role of civil society, long-term nature of governance operations
11/20 (PRSLII)       Meeting with team from DFID-supported Indonesia-UK Tropical Forest Management
Forestry donors      Programme to discuss comments on Bank's draft forestry issues paper and suggestions for
policy reforms in PRSLII.
11/20-27 (All)       Country Director met with leading thinkers and opposition leaders, including Nurcholish
Leading opposition   Madjid, Gus Dur, Sri Bintang Pamungkas, Marzuki Darusman, and student leaders and
figures.             faculty. Supportive of our program to keep reform program going & economy stable
11/23 (PRSLII)       Meeting with USAID and US EPA to discuss strategy and collaboration on conversion to
Environmental donors  unleaded gasoline and other clean fuels, including possible US EPA support to MIGAS. US
EPA committed to conducting analysis of private sector capacity to supply unleaded gasoline
to Indonesia.
11/24 (PRSL2/FSAL)  Co-sponsored with Swiss Contact a seminar on "The Role of Unleaded Gasoline in Creating
Public consultation on   Clean Air" and presented Bank's experience with and recommended strategy for conversion to
urban air quality    unleaded gasoline.
11/26-27 (SSNAL)     BAPPENAS counterpart supportive of increased civil society dialogue. Consultations held
SSNAL Monitoring &   with civil society leaders re designating main Civil Society interlocutor on the leadership
high level commission  committee of the SSNAL monitoring group, and appointing more civil society reps for
working group.
12/01-05 (CAS)       Meetings with government counterparts re CAS, lending program, and individual adjustment
Government           operations. Agreement on general framework and program matrix.
12/01-12/12 (SSNAL)  Meetings with bilaterals on funding for NGO activities-possibly channel through SMERU or
Bilaterals           SSNAL vehicle. USAID, AusAid, CIDA, others.
12/01-12/11 (ALL)    Individual meetings with local and international NGOs in Jakarta on proposed lending
operations, gauging of potential support
12/03 (ALL)          Preliminary meeting to distribute documents, explain 4 adjustment programs, answer
V/2day Workshop      questions, brainstorm on monitoring mechanisms, and lay groundwork for following week's
full day session. Minutes of meeting sent out to participants
12/07 (SSNAL)        Met with small group of influential NGOs as part of RSI's ongoing strategy to incorporate
Ford Foundation      NGOs into decision-making process, set up Advisory Committee
12/07 (PRSLII)       PRSL II consultation with KADIN-Chamber of Industry & Commerce. Discussed helping
Trade group          small and medium size industries, and future trade and industry policy reform.
12/08 (PRSLII)       Meeting with private fuel additive producer and representative of Association of Indonesian
Private sector on urban  Automotive Industries to discuss private-sector alternatives for phase out of lead in gasoline.
air quality
12/09 (All)          Overview of strategy and operations, break-out into working groups: Social Safety Net; Anti-
Full Day Workshop    Corruption; Banking & Corporate Restructuring; Structural Reform & Private/Public
Enterprise Reform; Legal, Land, Civil Service Reform. Civil Society, Private Sector, Trade
Unions, Academics.
12/14-18 (WatSAL)    Water sector NGOs and water user associations at the local and provincial level



Annex V
Page 3 of 5
12/15 (PRSLII)       Participated in meeting of Consultative Group on Indonesian Forestry (CGIF) meeting of
MoFEC and forestry    Working Group on Social Forestry and People' Participation, to discuss proposed
donors               MoFEC/CGIF work program for consultations to develop implementation plan for MoFEC's
"forests for people" policy.
12/17 (All)          Consultation with local journalists on Adjustment Operations / CAS
Media consultation
January              In conjunction with IFC, consultation on operations-particularly PRSL II and
Private Sector       Governance-with representatives from the business and investment community.
consultation
January-September   Consultations to be conducted on Public Sector/Governance Loan: Civil Society, Donors,
Public Sector Loan   Private Sector, Professional and Trade Associations on Policy Actions: Anti-corruption,
Decentralization, Legal & Judicial Reform, Civil Service Reform, Land Administration,
Taxation Policy, Resource Management.
1/25/99              WB chairs interim CGI donor meeting on response to the crisis in Indonesia; strong emphasis
Mid-year CGI         on social response to the crisis
meeting
1/27/99              Roundtable discussion on CGI proceedings and latest findings on social impacts of the crisis
Roundtable w/NGOs    World Bank Vice President, Country Director to attend; INFID possibly to chair.
II. Consultations Between Government and Civil Society on the Social Safety Net Programs
In addition to the consultations noted above about the Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan, which
were about the loan itself, and hence between the Bank and civil society, there was also a set of direct
meetings between Civil Society organizations and the Government of Indonesia, which the World Bank
assisted with the arrangements for, but attended only as an observer.
The objectives of these meetings between government and civil society were to:
*  Provide Civil Society organizations with detailed information on design plans, budgets and
monitoring mechanisms for FY99/00 Social Safety Net (SSN) programs;
a  Elicit specific input from Civil Society on ways to improve SSN design and delivery;
*  Foster a constructive engagement between Government and Civil Society with a view to building a
broad-based consensus on necessary reforms to SSN programs.
a  Serve as a beginning of a more institutionalized and regular series of consultations on the SSN
programs via the "Stakeholder's Forum" with a consortium of NGOs acting as an "Independent
Monitoring Team."
To ensure adequate participation and information sharing in these meetings, the Government, through
BAPPENAS, agreed to host a two-phased set of consultations. The first part was a set of half-day
Briefing Sessions (held between April 14-16) which were held primarily to convey information to the
civil society groups. The second part was an all day workshop on April 22 so that, after having had time
to read and digest the material, the civil society groups could provide their input.
These briefing sessions included presentations from Government line ministries responsible for SSN
programs identified as the "core" SSN programs such as: Padat Karya (Labor Creation), Education,



Annex V
Page 4 of 5
Health, Food Security, Community Funds. For each program information and documentation were
provided on their proposed programs.
The initial briefings were held in five separate sessions with different elements of civil society
individually (Labor Organizations and Employer's Associations, Religious Organizations, Academic and
Research Organizations, Women's Associations, and Non-Government Organizations involved in
advocacy and social development). This division into smaller groups allowed more time for follow up
questions and inquiries in the briefing sessions.
Following on these briefings a full-day National Workshop was held at the main BAPPENAS
building in Jakarta on April 22, 1999, from 9:00am to 5:30pm. The GOI invited participants from the
earlier Briefing Sessions to:
*  Present their analysis of the information/documentation received at the Briefing Sessions;
m  Propose constructive feedback for incorporation into the Government's design, implementation
and monitoring of SSN programs; and,
*  Articulate a process for ongoing consultation, including the role of the proposed Independent
Monitoring Team to be comprised of Civil Society organizations.
While the Government was the organizer of the workshop, in order to ensure a free flow of ideas and
to avoid suggestions that the government was "controlling" the discussions, the meeting was facilitated
by an Indonesian consultant, Victor Chandrawira, who, along with four other Indonesian facilitators,
chaired the meeting and managed the small group sessions. While the Bank was present and made a brief
welcoming and concluding remarks, the Bank's participation was as an observer and was "hands off'
throughout the course of the meeting.
After an opening plenary, break-out sessions on four topics (composed of self-selecting members in
each group) were formed addressing the following areas: 1) Health, Education and OPK (the rice subsidy
program); 2) Monitoring of the health, education and OPK programs; 3). JPS planning for employment
creation, including for enhancing women's employment (Cipta Karya) and PDM-PKE; and 3) Monitoring
of the employment creation program, women's program and PDM-DKE. These small group sessions
were followed by a plenary receiving the were made back in plenary on the findings of each group (with
the rapporteur chosen by the groups). Following each report back, there was an opportunity for
immediate questions or commentary.
The meeting produced a summary set of demands for improvement in the safety net which reflected
two overriding concerns: (i) the need to monitor JPS closely, to prevent misuse of funds, including
through a transparent approach; and (ii) the strong desire of civil society for an approach that truly
incorporates preparatory activities involving the village populations (socialisasi), and takes into account
the needs of the people (masyarakat). The specific suggestions on design were:
* Cleared criteria on beneficiary selection,
* More extensive information dissemination and planning within communities,
* Actions to ensures women's participation in all aspects of programs.
On monitoring and evaluation the priority areas highlighted were:
* Imposing clear legal sanctions on abuses,



Annex V
Page 5 of 5
*  Standard key performance indicators,
*  Better collection of field data for evaluation and the use of qualitative as well as quantitative data,
*  Greater budget transparency.
The meetings were far from free of controversy. Shortly after the opening, the meeting was disrupted
by members of the Urban Poor Coalition (UPC). UPC had organized a protest outside BAPPENAS with
several hundred protesters and walked out of the consultations inviting the government to consult with the
poor directly. The senior BAPPENAS official who had opened the meeting on behalf of the government,
went outside to speak with the demonstrators and invited the demonstrators to choose 1 0 people to join the
meeting inside, but the offer was rejected. Moreover, even during the meetings it was clear that many of
the NGOs present suspected the Government of "going through the motions." The report of the
facilitator indicates that many civil society groups did not consider the recent meetings "truly legitimate"
in that insufficient time and information was given and they had little confidence the Government (or the
Bank) would respond to their recommendations and called for an improved mechanism for regular
consultation.
The government will complete a full report of the consultative meeting held on April 22nd, the results
and findings of the meeting will be shared by the Bank with each of the participants in attendance. The
Bank's full report of the meeting and a summary of the substantive points raised can be found in a
separate document, "Synthesis of Main issues Emerging from Consultation with Civil Society on JPS:
Proceedings of the April 22, 1999 BAPPENAS Meeting".



