Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24340
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL44710)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 600 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
Q,f%1T AT  C A T1"1Tk''~ TT,1r  A  'T1rTQ1XrT -M'TM~r Y  A kT
3J.auti.L1 at%rzL I I,r £NL tuJJi Ua I 1LE In, I.AJJtu'
JUP4r 2i, 2002
Environment and Social Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
-his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
'official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 2, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$ 1 = Rp 9440
FISCAT. VAR
January 1    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
ASEM             Asian European Meeting
Bank             Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Bappenas         Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional (Natonal Development Planning Board)
BKRKRN           R,idan Koor,linnHi K4eha.ma Ber-rmn,a Nasion-Ra (Natinann Familv P!anninn roordinntinn
Board)
BLN              Bantuan Luar Negeri (Donor's Fund)
BULOG            Badan Uirusan Logistik (Logistc Agency)
CGI              Consultative Group for Indonesia
CIMU             Central Independent Monitoring Unit
Cipta Karya      Directorate General of Human Settlements
CRU              Complaint Resolution Unit
CSOn             Civ.l Sodcety Organization
DBO              Dana Bantuan Operasional (Block Grant)
DIP              Daftar Isian Proyek (Budget Document)
FLP              Forum Untas Pelaku (Stakeholder's Forum)
Gol              Govemment of Indonesia
HH               Household
IMF              Intemational Monetary Fund
JBIC             Japan Bank for Intemational Cooperaton
JPS              Jaring Pergaman Sosial (Social Safety Net)
JPS-BK           Jaring Pengaman Sosial Bidang Kesehatan (Health Safety Net)
KTP              Kartu Tanda Penduduk (Identity Card for Residence)
LLI              Local Level Institution Study
MoF              Ministry of Finance
NGO              Non-Govemment Organization
OPK              Operasi Pasar Khusus (Sale of Subsidized Rice)
Padat Kar,ya     Labor Creation Program
PDM-DKE         Pemberdayaan Daerah dalam Mengatasi Dampak Krisis Ekonomi (Community
Fund)
PKP              Padat Karva Perkotaan (Urban Labor Intensive Program alias padat karva prnaram)
PKPP             Prakarsa Khusus bagi Penganggur Perempuan (= SIWU)
PKSPU-CK         Labor Intensive Program In Public Works (alias padat karya program)
Posyandu        Pra Prtayanan Terpadu (heaith services post)
PRSL             Policy Reform Support Loan
SBG              Scholarship and Block Grant
SIWU             Speclal Initiatives for Women's Unemployment
SMERU            Social Monitoring and Early Response Unit (a research institute)
SSN              Social Safety Net
SSNAL            Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan
SUSENAS          Survey Sosial Ekonomi Nasional (National Social-Economic Survey)
TKPP             rim Koordinasi PenaeloIaan Proaram (Proaram Management Coordination Team)
TKPP-tkt I       TKPP at the provincial level
TKPP-tkt II      TKPP at the district level
UPM              Unit Pengaduan Masyarakat (Complaint Resolution Unit)
WB               World Bank
WFP              World Food Program
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:      Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:     Zafer Ecevit, EASES
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Jacaueline Pomerov. EACIF



Vf11%T t%'MJ'vfT AT VTVWE 91r ^X w
en *P%%i r a TC!IIU   l rd %J   t 
rA.    vr     s LPWE ivLL.L  xIE  JVL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
(LOAN 4471)
SOCIAL SAFETY NET ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                  1
2. Princinal Performance Ratings                                                  I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry       2
4. Achievement of Objective~ and Outputs                                         5
5. Ma or Fatortrs A .ec Wim  pmrntotnon nn-d Ouf,tc nm ,e                       1 2
6. Sustainability                                                               19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                20
8. Lessons Learned                                                              21
9. Partner Comments                                                             21
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Jndicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Proiect Costs and Financin2                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Anrrex 5. Ra:ing. so for AAhie-v4 fofC.......       vnts  29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and- Borrower Performance                               30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 7.1. Golis Comments                                                        31
Annex 7.2. Other Partner's (-omments                                             43
lThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P063939                                       |Project Name: SOCIAL SAFETY NET
A r%11 TrnII ShPTr
Team leader: Jaceline Pomeroy                             TL Unit: EASES
C-R Type: C-ore iCR                                       Report Date: June 20, 2002
1. Project Data
"l,ame:SCA       lT -s=     AD"JT.v.                  "A . -w-,um cr. aL7 '
A ne:.. ~CrI'TAT S AM-VNTE .TT AT'ITT TQT1rAA-VX1`   F I/rL'P AL..k..... Cf'T AA'7f
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
DII,;""
Sector/subsector: SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
()r.iog.al          R.'e/cta
PCD:    11/16/1998                             Effective: 05/28/1999         05/28/1999
Apnnrni.i- nd/n01 /1999                               AJTD:
Approval:  05/20/1999                               Closing: 12/31/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF INDONESL/MNISTRY OF FINANCE
O.ther Partne.ns: rB!C (co-.f-in.arcer)
S MA FF               Cm-rent                                   At Ap isal
Vice President:      Jemal ud-din Kassum                        J. Severino
fo.tJ. JvAsafla5- r --- a.- la.-                                TA4A-- .. T  TN. ra
Sector Manager:       Zafer Ecevit                              K. Georgieva
n-am     Adeat TCJ.: jacJuel=n te Por fb e                             LIltLt
ICR Primary Author:   Lant Pritchett
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
uu.r..^ib..5..U IIyT TLT
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAGJ (f availaule)        lCn
Quality at Entry: S                       S
rroject at Risk at Any Time;



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The SSNAL should be assessed against its three World Bank objectives, which evolved out of the
CGI discussions/Fund program in July '98. Based on the strategy note in October 1998 that
became the basis for the adiustment loans that were being prepared there were three objectives for
which it was decided a Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan would be the most reasonable
i ,tru.m.n-t.
bujec-i-ve A) G.JeL a reasoriaubl set Vi "safet Unet pIVruaL  up azdu Ingur iaL &v touram, tuh
social impact of the crisis and reach poor (subsidized rice) and "impacted" households (labor
creation, community funds) and prevent deterioration in human capital (nealth, scholarships).
Objective B) Make some steps forward on a governance agenda. This was taken broadly as
attacking corruption, expanding information dissemination about government actions, making the
local government as a service provider more responsive to citizens. The idea was that since the
SSN nrograms were (a) the orioritv in the short run and (b) new. incremental. Drograms without
established and vested interests they would serve as the "vanguard." What was done in the key
SSN programs would then be picked up and spread to other progarms/activities in the same
sectors (e.g. education, health, public works) and to local governments (e.g. stakeholder's forum,
budget information, reguiar performanlce reporutng).
Objective C) Make sufficient amounts of financing available to the government to stabilize the
economic situation from a "free fall" and create at least sufficient economic stability to allow for
the elections planned for June 1999 to be carried out and the newly elected government to take
over economic policy. Both elections and the resulting legitimated stable (even if not "new")
government with a mandate were thought (in October 1998) to be preconditions for resumption
of economic growth. Given the nublic disclosures about corruption in general, and in Bank
projects in particular in August 1998, large amounts of adjustment lending were organizationally
srnmn- "not on" nh-11t ce- .cnfcs of both go,veance  A QQSNJ bearng aAdrese.. TA tv e xf.ent
auuj,JY  Ifh tt y nmu t%,tmt  s   ta.n - 5.V ~na~. . cnn  Lflf-  at_ .OO . *w  -IA  fU U
the existence of the SSNAL was a necessary element to be in place for PRSL II (and any other
contempiated adjustment lending).
The joint logic made something like the SSNAL (an adjustment loan with conditions related to
implementation of SSN programs and governance improvements) not so much
desirable--everyone involved was aware of the limitations of adjustment lending for addressing
institutional issues--as inevitable. Given the need for speed and budget support some tvpe of
adjustment lending was necessary. Given the need for SSN programs, it was natural to address
those concerrns. Given the conce-_rn for crnmuption and the environmne-nt in whirh corunption cnluld
not be addressed generally at least until a new government using the new SSN programs was seen
as e<vUg"UoUU vi eruWance, iviruJi1ir and u1e vluy viauib opLLuLL.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions to objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The SSNAL was an adjustment loan approved by the -W-B Board in June 1999 of up to US$600
million (in two US$ 300 million tranches) in which the Bank would disburse untied, fungible
resources to the govermnent based on the government's achievement of certain conditions (As an
adiustment loan the SSNAL did not directly finance any SSN mrogram in the sense there was an
accounting/disbursement trail from WB loan to SSN program activities. Inagine WB loan funds
a   uredyed red-it ic nt the cas N berp.ei.ciar.e ixuuill rcv red rtik.-it is thrat the iihole
government budget is pink). The conditionality of the SSNAL hinged on adequate performance
adU  saug-uaruingV UoLf, brI1snding Ui siA jurpriog i Ussigiiau  d as 4U LL I &Y ae'S4 prugidflls. I nv
performance conditions had two parts: responsibilities of the programs and overall
safeguarding/policy improvement.
Programs: The six programs were:
[Program..           IBrief description            [By     ~     [Financed  ]When? 
OPK (Operasi Pasar   | Sale of rice at a subsidized price  | BULOG  Recurrent | Aug  1
Khusus)               (I (lOOOrp/kg)              ll                        98-on    l
SBG (Scholarships and  Scholarships to individual students J Education  IWB/ADB ISept  I
Block Grants          plus block grants directly to schools     I          I98-on
JPS-BK (Health safety  Umbrella for many programs:  Health        ADB       Got
nets)                 health cards entitling to some free                   started
health services, subsidies to                         late-stil
midwives, extra nutrition tunding                     I going.
(posyandu)
P aat Karya kLaDor    Labor creation program in uroan  Cipta iarya  Rupian  Alter r Y
creation)             areas (replacing a variety of               Murni     98/99
SeCtOXL-Vaiiin IlUSlj vprps s)sebwa:
not until
SIWU (Women's labor  I Labor creation nrogram for  I Cinta      I R   nia   not until I
creation)             women's                       Karya/Human  Mumi       Sept 2000
employment-responding to      Settlements
proposals from NGOs/others
PDM-DKE (community    Block grants to kelurahans and  Bappenas   | Rupiah   Impleme
| fund)                desas to be used for revolving fund         Murmi     nted once
to community groups, and labor                        before
wages for infrastructure                              SSNAL
maintenance.                                          not again
until Oct
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2 0 0 0 .
For each of the key programs there were requirements that they set monthly physical performance
targets of benefits actually reaching beneficiaries are set. The targets were not just process or
input or disbursement targets but rice received, health cards used, etc.
- 3-



Safeguarding. In addition, each key program set targets for the implementation of a five point
"safeguarding" which included (1) regular reporting on the performance targets, (2) independent
verification of the reporting of the programs, (3) an information campaign to inform potential
hPbnficiaries/c4uivil society abhot thp nrnoram  () NC.O involvpmPnt in monitoring, (S) s.tting up a
complaints resolution mechanism.
In addition, each district and center had a group (TKPP) carrying out parallel activities. There
were also general safeguarding activities related to all SSN programs carried out by the districts
and center, such as the dissemination of SSN budgets and eligibility for all programs to the public.
Safeguarding activity  |    Programs        [   TKPP-regional     [      TKPP-Pusat
Regular reporting on  Each key program        Produces a report for  Produces the overall
performance targets   produces monthly report  the programs within   report
the area
Verification of the   Carried out by Lembaga
performance reports   Demografi through a
survey directly to
househo;Xs.
Information campaign  Each program            An overall awareness   A national campaign.
Canailp WA T;Ur Lu
(programs, budes
eliaihifitSe of enh
program)ll
WM invnlvy-mt-nt in  IPlan fnr each nrnoram                         I                     i
monitoring           l                       l                      l                     l
I Comnlaint resolution  I Mechanism in each   I Mechanism in the     I Mechanism at the Pusat
mechanism             program| district to receive                   level to resolve "big
complaints about any  tickef' complaints
program                                     l
Non-Program                                   p
|Safeguarding activifiesllll
| Budget informaion                           Each district produces  Folders colected at
folders                                       a folder with detailed  national level for each
information about      district
l   _      _       _     each program          I
Stakeholders Forum                            Each district creates a
I  I                    I forum with NGOvI
cooperation in which
presented periodically
3 4 Revisepd Componentg
The only major revision was an extension of the deadlines by which performance would be
acoeve. ^^s "asn ecessary, bep2,caue of delays in thn "itia! Aibcl,,vme'tc ofth 'S  an fnO:ras
external to the loan itself. (see section 5.4. for more detail on the inital disbursement delay.)
3.5 Quality at Entry:
n-A vIN _- I'% A row     r-
aXU4VL baba%,LsScul kz uy w£
-4-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 v(jJ UUJoE5V.;-v
Judging against these objectives (SSN programs, vanguard of governance, stabilize economy)
there are two different quesuons: (1) were ithose broad oDjectives accomplished? (2) was there a
value added of the SSNAL to the objectives?
This section justifies the seemingly paradoxical "satisfactory" rating for a two tranche adjustment
loan in which the second tranche did not disburse. As this section will show, the most important
of the overall obiectives of the adjustment lending strateav-economic stabilization, stable
political transition, reduction in poverty, avoiding dramatic worsening in human welfare-were
ncermnmiihed The RSNAr. was an integral and nece-Pcsry nprt nf th_t strateg.p The -.ex-.at vahlu-
added of the SSNAL is difficult to assess, but is a hypothetical in any case. So, while in the
WLULVst ol ICssons" tLh ICRiA 1ocuses oin iMUy of LL-eIVVI.LL, sc ic  aSN U JJaLiUA.LL-ly UVVgoverc.V
improving elements of the SSN which did not implement fully, for a variety of reasons detailed
below, our judgment is that to rank the SSNAL "unsatisfactory" ignores the broader context,
strategy, and outcomes.
I) Were the broad objectives achieved?
Obiective A) Launching a SSN. There are two levels to deciding this auestion. First, did things
get better or worse? Second did the SSN programs have anything to do with that?
On the first, there is no question that not only were the effects on poverty and social indicators
no;L as uau as oiLIa.Uy feareU--bUL nie4Lary 4LL LiUUI.WAJb shUW UUbsWUt41 IcUUVeIy IUoUI Wi4tever
crisis troughs they had. Poverty is down substantially from its Aug-October 1998 peaks, school
enrodments are back up, utiiization of health services is back up, mainutrition generally is not
above pre-crisis levels. While all of this may be due to general economic recovery (or at least
stabilization from the free fall) there is no obvious evidence that the SSN failed because conditions
did not continue to deteriorate-they improved substantially.
But, post hoc is not propter hoc. What was the impact of the SSN programs in achieving those
broad objectives? The performance of the SSN is by now reasonably well documented, in terms
of cover,a-ge, tnrgeting, nnd impact. Thic ;S bhP.use in aAddition to the reportng of the programq
themselves there are now at least three large scale household surveys ("100 villages" 12,000 HHs,
OT TQXT A C 'flrA (bflf' lILYtX  I II AfA IrTTT.\: --. lL--L .13   '        _' nCMTh
aUaLumrka 2v0,vv0-r r0x+  , LLI 1200V KU-l) iLL WhiJch HoiUiuelu repotLL uheir paruicipauun in SN4
programs. The answer is mixed so a brief assessment program by program on (a) coverage, (b)
targeting and (c) safeguarding (see table 1).
-5-



Table 1: Coverage Targeting and Selected SSN Programs
100 Villages data, 12,000 HHs   |      SUSENAS, National
l________________________ l_ _  October 1999      |         February 1999
Proram/   I    0T    1 Bottom 40   1 Ratio 01 to i 01   [Bottom 40 Ratio 01 to OVI
Activity   coverage     percent     q5 coverage           percent [   (richest
I    I         I   coverage   I            s       0~~~n     I   nh9"i..+lp)
pPK         |  78.2         72.0          2.5    |    52.6  |  49.4       2 2.0   l
0   IC   -7   Z      A____ ___ ___  I 7 .I .   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
0.0   1      .0           t.J        1.0      1.           .
Health           25.9        19.9          3.8       10.6      8.9         2.9
PdU4at ya        7.0                       3.6        8.3      7.6         3.0
Subsidized       8.1          5.8          4.0
otes: Sudarno Sumarto, Asep Suryahadi, Wenefrida Widyanti, "Designs and Implementation of the
,,ndo   Soc SaI   Net Pmrnl msviApni' frim the 1PS Mndlp in the 1099 SUS1NAS" S..MP12U
orking paper, the SMERU Research Institute, Jakarta.
Objective B) Vanguard of governance reforms. Rapid decentralization to the districts, an event
-,C4reseen at th +Mm0 .eof pr-Io ectCias.a-tn all  e ls0. There i s  noA e.pirical ev idence
unJtol LO'4  LLl'Ifll'V  JtJ''  tAt'Ol& , £150 tfJlLn~t   VU .'Ot.  A fl%'JV  10 11)tUljJ  6&  /VIWhtt
that governance has improved over the last 2 V2 years (e.g. that there is less corruption, better
services, more opennaess, more accouniability). However, thnere are indications that elements and
ideas behind SSNAL are being picked up regionally as well as sectorally. Transparency,
accountability and NGO involvement, part of the good governance elements that the Bank
introduced through SSNAL, are starting to be accepted and discussed openly among civil
societies as well as government officials as the country is transitioning into the decentralized mode
(see section 4.5)
Ojective CJ Stnbilization, elections, resumption onfgrowth. The ecnnnmy did in fact stahili7ed.
Poverty did in fact come way down from 27% in January 1999 to 16% in January 2000 (BPS
...\     A        ..Z--. T.NA1,l.l.k0..A..                                 A --
figuL-.-es). A-leo was held inU .1 June 1979 W1vrtu was wide'iy MMl Lu Le it' anu IaLL. Ai nLIw
government was chosen and, at the time, widely regarded as legitimate. The hoped for stability
and resumption of growth have not materialized to the extent one could have wished.
2) What was the value added of the SSNAL to achieving the objectives?
Overall: programs. There was a general value added for nearly all of the SSN programs just
through engagement with the SSNAL conditions. For instance, in neither the Health Card nor
many of the Padat Karya programs were there performance targets. The requirement for regular
ranort,niv on physicnal nprforrn.ov i  tfar,etc act .iily crratued a hepfi1 i nftprnal A! disc,ein, + to %hat the
objectives of the programs were and how they might be measured. Surprisingly perhaps this was
Uig vaIue, UUU Uaded uaMV rmIoUt prUgrUa1 Ul u uh y fim4nI.wiM aLlU amiuLu uaUve repUrLuiig
requirements.
Overall: safeguarding. There were a number of innovative actions taken on openness and
transparency, information dissemination, stakeholder consultation, and complaint resolution.
- 6 -



These clearly set important precedents, but it is hard to assess their impact on project performance
overall or their likelihood of being sustained in a changed and rapidly changing political
environment.
First, one of the requirements of the SSNAL was the creation and public disclosure of a "budget
folder" -hich ---+,ed- A-tz;I-A -.r-.or.4-o on -aho L. SSNM pror   -eg Iow ...zn
scholarships to each school). This information could be disaggregated-so that the amnounts of
each lower unit added up to those of the nigher unit. Not only was this information not publicly
available before it was not even available to lower units of the government-village heads/school
principals were told only their amount, not the total or distribution.
Second, the "stakeholder's forum" in which the government held meetings with concerned
citizens and NGOs to report on progress in the SSN were a precedent. The NGOs themselves
became quite engaged in the design and implementation of this at the national level and at least in
rPrt_in districts the proessc generatedl considerable participaAtion.
uu, uie vei.ic%atuio uo pu  LivL. r        . poLrL co    AoSL it     wii s i u
government that in order for a performance report to count as "success" an independent team
would do a sample of the report directly to the beneficiaries to see if they agreed they had
received the amount and type of benefits the report said they did. It was a big, and useful,
innovation when The Bank formally declined to accept the report on the performance of OPK
because it did not correspond to reality. (The OPK team had set a target for numbers of
households receiving 20 kgs of rice. The reporting system however simply measured rice leaving
the warehouses and divided by 2Okgs to derive households. Obviously when a survey attempted
to verify the accuracy of this report they did not-many more households had received rice than
were r.tn rteA earlh rpppi.vir, less r.ce)
Fourth, the openness of the SSNZ AT process ictsef xwas a hbnefit of  pro,ec  Tn fLe end f.e
SSNAL genemted more public discussion than perhaps any other operation. The Board loan
uuu   l  were   d ii-u p-UUbicAly avai,uable (otiuie firLst Winne), 1Nus wrIC uivo;-veu in suprviision,
when the decision was made not to extend the loan closing date that information and its
justification was made public (see annex 7.3. for information posted in the Banks external
website).
Objective B) Basically decentralization overtook any notion of a central strategy for improving
governance. Taking up the innovations on transparency, complaint resolution, stakeholder
consultation. etc. became a district by district issue. Moreover, since the innovations were brand
new and run by centralized ministries they could not be evaluated, assessed, and disseminated
beafore tme Aeerotro 7B.-ofnn Since th,e unAoa..eta1 c+.ram, of din nn,,,..nn   (and B 0 
-WlJ&   LLV t%~fftAfC&1J. L m   Z~IIW f1l4 OL.L%..rj  WA Llud  V  hf AAuflt %4Jt  AJaf)
towards govemance shifted, the lasting SSNAL impact was/will be small-this is unfortunate
some elements were promis-In, but essentialllly peuple wno nave expenence With tnese new
attempts at improving governance have little or no leverage on the levels of government now
responsibie.
Objective C) Obviously the contribution of the SSNAL to overall economic stabilization is
- 7 -



impossible to assess. The existence of the SSNAL did allow the disbursement of US$ 1.1 billion
as a package--PRSL LT, US$500 million, first tranche Bank US$300 million, Japanese
co-financing US$300 million. It also, for better or worse, became the focus of Bank engagement
on a num11ber high level issues (e.g. Bank- a1AlJee below. On the other band, the faillre of the
second tranche to disburse did mean a shortfall of $600 million in FY00 financing (Bank plus
I-IC), which some would argue in and of itself implies te loan did noi accomLplish its objecti-ves.
Our view is that the early financing (and particularly the commitments to the financing) were more
essential to stabilization and the failure to disburse did not, in and of itself, cause substantial
macro damage.
4.2 Outputs by components:
This section reviews the accomplishments of each key program, followed by an assessment of
World Bank/SSNAL value added. The structure is program by program discussing (a) program
operation, (b) program safeguarding, (c) value added (if any) of SSNAL to program or
safeguarding. After the six programs there is a section on the safeguarding activities.
OPK
Performance. By February 1999 half of the population had received some OPK rice. The issue
with this program was that while officially only BKKBN poor ("pre-prosperous" and "prosperous
T") hnll<hnlds we,re elihihle there is amnle anectintesRand data to _how that in fact the rice was
given almost universally. But while this was a deviation ftom "policy," it is not clear it was either
avoiuabivenr LU l'oc.a.l sioial neajiu o; nece.sa±.ly a uadu U1ur ngao (jsn, WouLL Ldav v tob pIe..y
convinced the BKKBN criteria were the legitimate targeting criteria to be too upset about
"spreading"). This "spreading" icely accounts for its ahmost universal popularity.
Safeguarding. On "safeguarding" one would have to give good scores as there were few
complaints and a widespread publicity campaign and the program was very well known.
SSNAL. The Bank supported OPK, which was under continual attack from parts of the
government that wanted exclusively "development budget" SSN, but it is doubtfil that SSNAL
suppoirt~ was depte-rmin ituP ThP RBnal"-'s iiiJlompnAt ic that aPTO hnnripiniA b-aim RI IT V OG was
deeply committed to it (it was their defense against elimination and chance for redemption).
The Bank supported using NGOs for direct delivery of the rice in urban areas (via WFP) for
which The Bank's intervention was perhaps determiinative. Tlhis addressed big problems with
OPK in cities (particularly in Jakarta where well less than half of poor residents have KTPs and
the city government was very reluctant to deliver to non-KTP holders).
The information campaign was better because of SSNAL. Other aspects of safeguarding (NGO
involvement, complaints) also had some implementation due to SSNAL. The Bank had some
engagement on the flexibility of targeting at local level.
-8 -



Neharvships
D.,o, ,,,.ce Ths p.-O.l was A4ec-, g   d byk .X1-.1A W ld--, A TB, zndA t'tTI Ther.
A ~IjJ  I  4f L "O FA L F&ji~~Li1 waLO u"L L Y 1Ua Y~%   LLUI Tvv1)1. LJUnAa.  rLLPLJI aLuu   ~JLJ IL%,I.
program got up and running fast. The target coverage was reached. If one is allowed a little post
hoc ergo propter hocery the feared magnitude decline in enrollment rates did not materiailze.
There is some evidence on program impact from the HH surveys (Cameron, 2000). In spite of
good performance, current thinking is that the idea of getting money directly to parents as long as
their children were in school and the parents could choose how to spend it was not workable and
perhaps not even desirable. In the end, although most of the scholarships were "received" by
students most of the resources stayed with the school as the schools convinced parents to use it to
pay school fees, etc. Since however the schools were starved for funds this is perhaps the best
wa,v tn hnve mmintnined Flnrn1lment in sqnv rc-'q-hv  intnginn novPrll nllalitu nf thf schnno
rather than targeting specific children.
Safeguarding. On safeguarding, the program was very innovative with its own "independent
monitoring unit"(but financed out of huge incremental donor financing for these activities).
SSNAL. Since the SBG program was Bank financed the WB had sufficient leverage to
accomplish whatever it wanted without the SSNAL.
Health Programs
Perormance. The niinntitntivp ...v   asuaSgeSt tknt health card ncverage" reached am% vMtehy 10
percent of the population by Feb 1999. They have perhaps become even more widespread (the
VAUrl",rely UnU-rVe1presn aUVV IVV Vi 'aesugges,s 2b5 perLceUL UIU Ul,e rxUiiieiy
non-representative LLI2 data suggest over 40 percent coverage in those 42 poor villages). The
targeting of the "health cards" with respect to expenditure poverty or consumption expenditures
(as an income proxy) was neither significantly better nor worse than other programs. One
evaluation suggests that they did in fact raise health card usage among the poor (Pradhan,
Sparrow and Saddah, 2000). In any case the drop in use of medical facilities that emerged in the
first year of the crisis was reversed.
Safeguarding. The safeguard programs did get the attention of the Health Ministry and are being
hnilt uponn in new prnoiets fior PDrvnuiuri21l HUalth Prw%ct T Ir TT nn 1z7h ich it  a
accountability" sub-component.
SSNAL. The JPS-BK is a complex program with some real deficiencies. The engagement with
the SSNAL did help improve the implementation of the program by getting them to focus on
monitorable and measurable results. The adoption of the safeguarding program also had some
value added.
Padat Karya
Performance. In the initial response to the crisis in which budgets were inflexible one response
-9-



was to reallocate budgets within programs to more labor intensive activities. This created a series
of sectoral padat karya programs that were neither well targeted geographically nor to workers as
the wages were different, etc. By being implemented by so many different ministries there was no
aht;llh tn imnn..p, rntintn1 tnroe-inc, nr desigrn or "snfcmu§ard" thes.e nrno2m-s as "qafetv netq" and
there was substantial anecdotal evidence (from community surveys from the Local Level
li11ULULIUo .3LUUY). IThy aIs e UV s ,VAL4LU4, UUL DstII UUsWiaIaLd Lu Z   U1se pIUoLgLLr were
being abused. The response was to propose a single large padat karya carried out by public
works that would focus on urDan areas. For a series of institutional reasons this program never
employed anyone until November 2000--three years after the beginning of the crisis. Since this
program was implemented very late it is too soon to know how well it worked-either in terms of
coverage, targeting, or benefit of the works.
Safeguarding. The first generationpDadat karva left a lot to be desired, but it is impossible to tell
how much better the new safeguarding was.
SSNAL. The SSNAL attempted to reduce support to the older padat karya and launch a new,
redUeIgUU, UIJJLIUVVU pFIUraLII. IL had JLIUIVAUiLV success if g lrL, Lth UIU paUatL &aya UUL VI tUh
"safety net" but this was then not replaced with anything until the new program began in
November 2000. Tne question is: were the old padat karya so awful that cutting them and
replacing them (for 16 months from April 1999 to November 2000) counts as success? Maybe,
but recent research (Sudarno Sumarto, Asep Suryahadi, Lant Pritchett, "Safety Nets and Safety
Ropes: Comparing the Dynamic Benefit Incidence of Two Indonesian 'JPS' Programs", SMERU
Working Paper, the SMERU Research Institute, Jakarta) on the targeting of padat karya suggests
they may have been filling a gap in the SSN for those with large reductions in income.
w, omen 's po5s, am
Perjormance and Safeguarding. Th Aprugram had interubeing lfeaures, uut sinc it Wab bU lUo
delayed in implementation and it was so small it had little direct impact. In addition, since it was
implemented so late, it was too early to measure the impact of the safeguarding measures.
SSNAL. While there was widespread support among NGOs and some parts of the government to
do something about the poor coverage of women in the existing padat karya, the SSNAL was
probably determinative in creating a distinct program (that was in addition to higher targets for
fermale participation in the redesigned "mainstream" padat karva)
Performance. Tnis was a controversial program from the beginning. in response to an IMF
agreement on the July 1998 budget, there was a substantial amount of revenue designated for a
"safety net" without any particular program in mind. PDM-DKE was designed by the
government (Bappenas) as a mechanism to quickly disburse large amounts of assistance by using
a modified "community fund" approach. However, by using the existing "community" groups
that were created by the New Order government this was obviously controversial. The
implementation of this program in early 1999 (FY 98/99) created controversy, especially in
-10-



Jakarta. It is believed that the negative reaction of NGOs and the general public to "JPS" was
because   T Jat--,a at leasat PDfl?,f1lT(P and TDP wvere exmnnumnlic The PThM-DfC1F diA not
disburse in FY 99/2000 and a substantially revised PDM-DKE was implemented again in late
M^i%^  T_   ,     2--   -3   Y~Yt_ I%%   T-.T.7T   1L_A ..~.i ~   .... 
2UU0. irL iW sfirS rouUUd, LUC rPDIVM-DrJn prograli FIaI llxAu peILiLuVLLIU, WILU succs UVJLLUurg
largely on local conditions being favorable, such as dynamic, newly chosen village heads.
Safeguarding. Here the old was very weak, but since the implementation of the new was so long
delayed there is no evidence.
SSNAL. Here the principal value added of the SSNAL was delaying implementation of
PflM-KF. intil it was redesigned Again this is obviouslv a mixed message. The best would
have been implementation of a redesigned PDM-DKE, but instead there was no implementation.
'aJt 'wZaS it SO.V Lf;l Lila. jit blda,21 imp.er,,.enffion of unchanged P.YJnlace.dt by noJLL
counts as a win? In this case, given the incredible negative publicity PDM-DKE created, the
anecdotal evidence of abuse and tne limited evidence of effectiveness, the answer is -yes.
Summary: All of that said, the overall impact on the human dimensions of the crisis from the SSN
was likely modest-because the effort was modest. At their peak, the SSN program realized
(both recurrent and development) expenditures were less than l/2% of GDP-several fold less than
the cost of Bank restructuring, many fold less than the fuel subsidy.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Within the rapid decentralization, the "institutionalization" of the good govemance objectives
introduced through the SSNAL could not be promoted centrally, but were dependent on their
adoption by the regions. In the spirit of decentralization, however, the impacts had varied across
regions. Some districts for instance were successful in maintaining a balanced FLP (stakeholder's
forum) involving Gol as well as CSO elements. In other regions the FLP evolved into NGO
fonrms, with little gove.rnme.nt participation- In other regions the FLP is considered govemment
dominated ("red-plated"). In some regions the FLP has disappeared..
Because many of the mechanism were specific to the JPS programs, the simultaneous
decenualization and ending or the JRS programs (wimcn deprved uLem of an msututonal home)
without any period of transition meant that some SSNAL elements disappeared entirely in their
existing form. The clearing house and grievance unit which were highly under utiiized are
non-existent. Performance reporting based on monthly targets are not sustained as a regular
feature, and the verification efforts were conditionality specific.
However some of the ideas and values promoted via the SSNAL have been adopted and
institutionalized in some sectors. The scholarship program continues to implement a monitoring
system which is quite efficient in resolving grievances. Although only introduced in the phase out
- 1 1 -



stage, the health program in some district monitor program implementations and tried to respond
to complaints.
5. Major Facors Affeeung Imiplementaion and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Process versus outcome conditions. Part of the goal of the SSNAL was to get citizens/civil
societv/NGOs more engzaged in the process, both for the immediate purpose of safeguardinz and
as a "vanguard" of governance reform. These are issues of process: did people have adequate
irfiorat.nt.on on ,Z,hich tor, £rn,n onpimnion; w -ere th-y g  i n an -iirtunt to express tht o
flfltsflnt~a  ~fl T Af~#fl~  *tflfl tW  **.I  5l I -   W  -tSyjJt   -  I~J.A T  j.0  .
was that opinion given reasonable consideration. These kinds of process conditions create
proUIIns aIout iiUe Dai s UaU tiie goUer-umei s sincenty.
For The Bank there are issues in which we think technical considerations narrow the range of
desirable options and we don't want process-we want a specific outcome (e.g. targeting). In
these cases a condition which specifies only process can be manipulated by the government-they
can always plant people in meetings to make precisely the suggestions they want to adopt and
then ignore all other proposals (while claiming they were "duly considered") and claim their
desired proposals are the result of consultation with "the people=" This in fact bpnnened in some
of the early SSNAL consultations.
A second problem is that one cannot legally stipulate that someone be sincere in their
consulitaions. For instance, one second trancne condition was that the procurement reguiaions
were being revised and the NGOs were very upset about certain elements of the prior
procurement regulations (particularly that all contracts for "consultants" on projects had to go
through the consultants association, which many regarded as a device for facilitating collusion).
Since the regulations had not been written aid since it was not clear what the desired outcome
was, other than that NGOs be engaged in the process. The Bank tried to stipulate a process (at
least three meetings, minutes made publicly available, government and non-government members
on a cnmmittee tn dr_ft rnrnirntndqlnnq) Honwever etven if they diid in fa-t llItimntelv y*nmn1v
with this particular condition legally (which is an open question) there was no evidence The
B  'I-s sFpecification ofI --le prcs  o' mr-e+nsi oe    e.twsntc=i
j.MJaIuL  ~JJ-~.Ii'.aUV Uf .L ULL LU,-0 IVLUUIL UJLjLIJ UVI UUUrO JIi  ~ILiU Wao LLuL LAJ1iiJ.LLLvu.
This lack of the ability to contract on the sincerity of process creates three bad options.
First, The Bank can only have legally verifiable objective performance conditions (e.g. households
receiving health cards). The downside is that this puts the responsibility for consultation back
with The Bank, as if The Bank wanted people/groups consulted. The Bank would have to consult
with them bilaterally (without government) and then insist on the results of that consultation
(tempered with The Bank's own judgment) as an outcome condition, not a process condition.
T, iiS iS obviousl a stpn baho ,-jor in njitg rong
Secon'u, i. uC aiUK has process U-Ondi'LIOLUU -WI'LU -Uiii SupuLitLUoU Lo Uii ieUK B s satisfacuon anu
exercise The Bank's discretion to judge on sincerity. This can only be done early in the
preparation process (the government would never accept this in negotiations as part of a legal
document).
- 12 -



'T- rA,          --- pranoces conA&4mns. -A be for-eAdo acc.ept governemt .,orm a.c evn if7 1,-
A ` `LA' 1 V '.`.,   %v.AJ 4LL wJ1.  ".U& LO... 1JLv &L J IluL.O.jJ v F% VLIILv.Ij  ISJLvIIIL , u L. tL4%iUI
NGOs/civil society groups (and The Bank) believe they are only going through the motions.
NGO/Civil society engagement. The SSNAL did attempt to engage civil society throughout the
process of preparation and supervision. While in general there were some positives, there were
also a number of issues.
Positives. The Bank did manage in supervision to work with NGOs and arrange some
consultation with locally based NGOs in every location The Bank did supervision. This was
neefill in three wave Firet it helneti infnrm the NM'Os what thp RBnk re-llv was (not a nprfit
making body), what the SSNAL was (not a specific program), and some chance to explain the
rationale. Second, it was v.; usIe  L togL utLeI necessa.-y opeJrIes an.-U vL1VUV1F, Ljj, NGs ULuere
really were objective criteria on which the tranches would (or would not) be disbursed. Third, it
was a great reality check on what the government was saying. in one district, the Govermnent
spent the morning telling us about the great information campaign and dissemination activities
they had undertaken. In the afternoon in a meeting of 35 different NGOs not one had heard of
any of it.
On some issues (like the district stakeholder's forum) the NGOs and government worked tozether
on design and then the national/coalition NGOs took the lead and disseminate the design and
nrno m tn rpoeinn;A n/1p  Nr MMO  whirh vin,rppased thp i'hav,p the NCMrns wouiild epp the ,irn,mm, me
a genuine advance.
Issues. There are a number of issues with NGO engagement.
First, disentangling specific adjustment loan issues from an overall advocacy stance. Many NGOs
adopted a general stances towards the Bank and adjustment lending in particular: there should be
no adjustment loans at all to the Habibie governmenti there should be debt relief, etc. This made
it difficult for many NGOs to engage on the substance of the conditionality or in supervision as if
their stance was "no adiustment loans period" they were understandably reluctant to answer the
question "say we ignore your stance and do one anyway-what should the conditions be?"
Similarly at each stage in whicchtehre wprp Adenv on Aia,ivremp,nft there-tvas a con,ipa"nt
stance that was independent of anything actually happening in the SSN programs or the SSNAL.
At WLV regLVinUl lVVVe LUrVIV WerV ULLOU bJIlU.L U1di11fUfUi UUIWVVI iVe aUvUocacy s incub of rugio5Iil
NGOs (e.g. "no dictates from the center") and questions of how to monitor implementation of
centrally driven and implemented programs.
A second issue was how to finance NGO involvement, if at all. There is often miscommunication
about the term "NGO involvement in monitoring." Many NGOs assumed it meant they would be
hired in one way or another on a fee for service basis by either the Bank or the program. When it
is sua2ested this would compromise their indenendence (and *tey would become ijust like the
existing evaluations they did not trust) The Bank then faced the difficulty of how The Bank
epvnect.A thn'rn tn fyn,ii'p the f  neess  o,A;-..  (Save!,l lao:,o e - .  The10 A.- A  pA r
k'---   -   -  - -   -               JILU v  ,  U1AC&IA  All%,ii  X-UCLAIA   jJVr5IO.UI
demonstrated how difficult it is to mobilize finance on an independent, small scale, basis for
- 13 -



NGOs to carry out new activities. On other activities (like stakeholder's forum) ASEM grants
would finance NGus activiues. For some reason the ASEM monies were seeu as sufficienuy
distant from the Bank that they could be accepted even by stridently anti-Bank groups.
A third issue was the existing negative and cynical attitudes, on both sides of the
governmentlNGO divide. Many of the NGOs were (perhaps justifiably) cynical about promises.
For instance, in visits with NGOs on supervision The Bank had this dialogue numerous times:
NCiOs:       There are many problems in the nrorrms-
WB:          Have you raised any of these problems with the complaint resolution mechanisms
- plac  - 'heprovnsor 'h A;is.-;cts
NGOs:        No, because nothing will happen anyway.
'win:       But iI you don't complain ulen tue govemmeni will claim ihe programs are
working because there are no complaints.
NGOs:        We'll only complain once the mechanism is outside of government control.
WB:          But if you don't complain and then show that those complaints are not resolved
successfully there will be no rationale to move the mechanism outside of
government control.
NGOs:        Tough.
In this dialogue the NGO position has substantial merit. After years in which filing official
com'Ui-paiaLLLs co%JUIU get yoU 1i DrIVUU -oUUJif not JIVL phAysIcally L 1eatvenedu), it was a ub ILLUIAI m u
expect this to emerge quickly even if the government were serious about change.
A fourth issue was capacity of the NGOs to engage in detailed policy dialogue or monitoring.
Two examples are the experience with the budget folders and the program redesign.
The budget folders were successfully produced in many districts and were disseminated to many
NGOs. In addition to the conditionality reuuired dissemination by the governtnent to 5 outlets
(two NGOs, two media outlets, and one university), SMERU was involved in obtaining every
fiolder that was producedl photocopnying it and se.ndling it to every N§0 they had on their mailing
list in that district with a detailed letter explaining what the data was and how it might be used). It
~~~~~~-             __.__  : _ _ -L ---  ,L-_w  -L 1T  ___.- L_t_--- _r:_ 
was no'Ut  pi   hLat UIaL gIvv UlaL U1 1%b Ua ULV;k U bb WLU UWn Lyjp U1 aunuamuou
before, they also did not know quite what to do with it when they had it.
In the dialogue with the NGOs during SSNAL preparation, the Bank convinced the Government
to share with the NGOs all existing operational manuals. That way, rather than just complaining
that, in general, the program was not sufficiently transparent or "the people" were not involved or
there was not enough time for information dissemination before decisions, they could make
concrete suggestions. How many meetings should be held? How should people be invited?
What should the decision mechanism be? Again, not at all surprisingly, given that many people
in.volved in the gove.men.t could n.ot a.swer tese questions, the .GOs-""wh  had never ac Ually
been exposed to the details of project design-were often at a loss to map their general objections
into specific cnanges. To be fair to tne 1NOs, at ieasi some of te reluctance was eimer a
(perhaps correct) assessment that even if they did devote the time to understanding the specifies
- 14 -



and make concrete proposals they would be ignored or a view that some projects were hopeless
no lr%innano~ thp,-x iuArp- nAmii"n c^t,wA IiL, tynx,rn,avifn
as long as theLy wer         by go.e.m.-
A   CXX ___           ___1_ L I  Tn--_  __._'_   -  1:_  . _v L_  1iT_- %   -IL---,  _ -1_ _   _ 1___  __-A
il U    se      -    e   11KU Wlb W1 L G Di. W4 U1 lugiUw u WlUlz iN1kJS WUuuL du 4UJUbUilIt liUWi 4HU
how that dialogue might affect the course of events. There were two suggested models of
NGO-Bank dialogue.
One was that the dialogue was between the Bank and the NGOs and its purpose was that the
NGOs would tell the Bank what should happen with the SSN and the Bank would then attempt to
enforce this as conditionality. In some instances it did work this way in that NGOs would have
good ideas which the Bank would listen to and then argue for in negotiations. The government
was naturally quite suspicious of Bank-NGO dialogue for this very reason.
The second model was that the dialogue was between the government and the NGOs and Bank
woiuu enforce as conduiuonatyL tat ine government wouiu "isten to te raNwus. I ms nowever
was impossible to negotiate as conditionality. Either the loan conditions specified process (e.g.
the government will hold X meetings) in which case the government could meet the conditions by
going through the motions (see discussion above) and the NGOs would see right through that and
be unhappy. Or the loan conditions specified that governments would create some mechanism
and then do what "the NGOs" said-which is just unacceptable to either the government or Bank
as a loan condition.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Adiustment loans for implementation and institutional obiectives (Multi-sectoral operations).
The SSNAL was just unavoidably complex (and perhaps more so). The six programs were
imni1e-mp.nt-ti hv fiv. e diffprpnt miniItp../alnr.ipq t(IT fl. O,PdlGt,2hAtl ini plth RAPPRVNA5,
Public Works (now Human Settlements)) each of which was operating nationwide in a huge
couLny. wnL tJJ Uof lat, JL% saieguai UJLr, IU.lleaiUsIrs a.tedLLLU Lu eunage U..-cCIly wLe local ULt.
II) governments (TKPP-tkt II). OPK was recurrent budget (as a subsidy). SBG was cofmanced
by WBslADB. Te JirS-BK was financed by the ADB. Activities that were part of, or reiated to,
the SSNAL conditions were financed by two different ASEM grants (without which action would
have been impossible, see above), AusAid (local monitoring).
The main counterpart agency was Bappenas, which given the multi-sectoral nature of the
operation was probably inevitable. But, this left BAPPENAS mainly trying to move the process
along with only sticks and no carrots. That is, they could threaten to cut off funding or eliminate
the nrnomm nnthrplv bhit Giild nnt (nr wunulti inot) nrnmise anu nidiitinnnl fiTdr tn narrru oit mannu
activities. Once sectoral ministries (like Health) figured out that whether or not SSNAL monies
were disbursed did not affect their projUect budget (which was dono - s tsaraeVl-;)
cooperation was more difficult. With BULOG, The Bank was often trying to convince them to
launch safeguarding mechanisms. BAPPENAS had told BULOG these funds should come out of
the "administration" fees BULOG was allowed for operation of the program. However, during
much of the period MOF was in huge arrears on not just the administration cost, but reimbursing
BULOG for the rice sold. Since BULOG was pre-fmancing the whole package, BAPPENAS
prodding fell on deaf ears.
- 15 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
1AdJL 17o,II5,flL Opurj  forIM jr m  or. ar.d 1F&)LiLui&or.al UuJrcL4 Ves II/C,fJ ar. .a;se, )
One lesson from the SSNAL-but that was obvious from decades of engagement with
projects-is that reality based reporting on physical performance imndcators tas opposea tO
financial) is not part of the institutional culture. Basically there is a "disbursement" culture on the
financial side and a non-reality based reporting on the physical performance side. Only the
detailed, continuous, conscientious engagement on projects can overcome these obstacles.
Oftentimes reporting conditions were not met because those in charge of program design had
never actually thought about reporting on performance and hence had no idea not only what could
or could not be met as ta rget hi t no idea .wh,at -riiId ac't,ua!!y hbe rpnnrt-d on.
LLUVV VAmL1pIle. IU  itL Wa  .UUWU WjU1.TL liUlIl LUVuvu.uh b ug UkLe pr IUrI   U'oL uI. fLce
reaching villages was "spreading" to more individuals than those strictly eligible. This was not
necessarily a bad thing (as The Bank was not comfortable witih the eligibility criteria in the first
place) and was inevitable given the local social conditions (bagi bagi rata) which tended to result
in equal distribution. Nevertheless, in negotiations the government agreed to a performance target
of the number of households receiving 20 kgs of rice. However, the reporting system was
generated at the rice warehouse so that the sub-dologs released rice against eligibility lists and
was incanable of accurate reporting on the target.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
One problem the SSNAL faces is that the disbursements became so high profile that it was
difficult for the Bank to adhere to technical arounds alone. although in the end loan disbursements
were always made based on loan conditions. Taldng the package to the Board before the
elections  as calt up rifh faars the 1 t would ho Icf.. "ney- polits"-n i.su , -t
-1, ...-   -   -   - -.y   -W ,s' -- %n  *tlf - Aflf yWjfl   - fl .0014d  JU
was adequately addressed by the GOI by comnitmnents to the timing of disbursements. The
disbursement of tihe firt draiche, which was very nearly ready in early August 1999 was delayed
till January (the loan conditions were never technically met) by concerns over Bank Bali scandal
and the inadequate response. While this delay was perfectly justified-the Bank simply could not
be in the position of disbursing fungible budget support in an environment without some basic
commitments to addressing large scale corruption-this did in fact delay the implementation of
the SSN programs because of the conflict between sectoral ministries and MOF (see below).
Even though the staff involved felt the conditions were clearly not met and that certainly the
apner2I nh,iptiveq nf the SSN afnd "afetnirdina" activities hnd nnt hee_n rmnmn1iqhPA the
decision to cancel the second tranche would have been very difficult in the absence of the Fund
piU.gam gOuill uii uaLk, agaLL ubcause LUM UI:0ULnsVIIIQUL0 WerV DU isog  psUIUr tLm paLL iii uUS
instance because of co-financing-see below).
At the original design stage, one proposal was to have a large first tranche and then basically
disburse against monthly performance, rather than have a big first tranche and then an equally
large second tranche after some huge, complex, second tranche conditions. It is not clear this
would have been able to lower the profile significantly (and would not have helped in the first
tranche-Bank Bali issues in any case).
There is a fia n4j1mntnl rnnfriaA,tinn in the desig orf ^faAiictrent Innsic A,, th9 onae h,andA the., are
-16 -



justified as filling a budget gap to produce good macroeconomic outcomes and hence are
rncieMorPd a npPeesrnj npr+t nf fininincy the hbudel,t gnid faillgrp to tichirep eiiffirientiv largeY
tranches endangers the macro balance. On the other hand, if there are two tranches there is at
IlesL d posbiUULY LUVe UhVIWoV UditionU1U1 WnL UItL eV JIMAL iI UIVy atI, aL au and nuVi auct LL LU lav&
they are enforced rigorously.
In this case though The Bank could not really go with a much bigger one tranche operation (if at
all) because of the fundamental nature of the programs (which required implementation) and the
reforms (which required institutional innovation). This meant the government had very little done
by first tranche other than budgets, plans, and promises.
Adjustment operations with implementation and institutional objectives (budget issues).
Arirthe. probdlem. the SSN.JA  facedr was th fr, stir lo lre f  1.u,lrsem.pntg ofgeld,ustrnpt lP-nding >rwI
the structure of the Indonesian budget were, if not completely incompatible, at least problematic.
I LUSUU W i  PUb
li S iiad two impacts.
First, while the SSNAL had conditions (either Board or first tranche) about budget allocations for
the key SSN programs, in the Indonesian system it is a long, long way from "being in the budget"
to actually being able to spend money. The difficulty was that in development projects there is a
very sharp distinction between BLN and rupiah mumii. The budget officials in both Bappenas and
Finance want the BLN to be in place before releasing the funds. This led to an unsolvable
standoff when the first tranche was delayed: in order to make progress on the programs and the
institutional innovations on the safeguarding activities within programs the programs needed their
b-Audg*s released (TDs or qn,-rivaten.) But nithe,kr noBarntao nor Financ wuas goutine tn aiit1i,w,27P
the actual expenditures (even though they were budgeted) until the monies were in place.
Second, in projects all required activities are budgeted. The SSNAL wanted projects to
undertake additional activities on safeguarding but, by being an adjustment loan, had no direct
funds of its own to budget and disburse. So, take the Health program (JPS-BK) which was
funded by the ADB. The ADB did not budget in any money for safeguarding activities. So when
the SSNAL required the JPS-BK to undertake safeguarding activities the question was: where
was the money to come from? From Bappenas/MOF the answer was: you must do the activities
hut no additional monev. The ministries naturally wanted incremental finds for each activity.
While the first tranche included conditions about their being "adequate" monies budgeted for the
r.na  d,nm..n act.v..u;es ,n achn progh m,,his b.devn was controversia (as Bappeas ,x,Zanted a
central DIP they controlled while the ministries did not). This conflict, which was the result of the
structure of adjustment finance lacking any direct control over line items, resulted in significant
delays.
The safeguarding activities that were implemented the best were those that were financed
separately out of grants. A series of ASEM grants supplemented the ability of the government to
do things like the budget folders. Since these were more "normal" ways of financing activities
these made everyone comfortable and with Bank execution could be very rapid.
Of course Bank execution of grants to carry out activities that were part of conditionality of a
- 17 -



Bank adjustment loan treads a very thin line of the Bank not being responsible for implementation.
aupp-ose 'Lue Task. Imiaugeo Ui BLaiK exc-uLdU a1A1 tkaAi WiLL Was Uscu Uy uiv Vunum gro-up to
coordinate implementation of the safeguards and approved the TORs and all activities.This would
make it difficult for the Task Manager to turn around and find performance unacceptable.
This contradiction between adjustment finance and implementation is of course why other
instruments have been proposed like "hybrids" and the move from sector adjustment loans to
"sector investment loans" (with more line item control).
Cofinancing.
This section has been reviseA in light of TRflC corments ont  fre *t Adft lx,khich re .-_rodiueA
below:
"JBIC considered that the budgetary impact caused by the cancellation of the 2nd tranche was
not sufficiently debated among GOi, WB and JBIC. Since GOI explained to JBIC on the
necessity of Loan extension clearly and possibility to achieve the conditions, JBIC suggested
holding the joint meeting to solve miscommunication.
Then, WB, GOI and JBIC jointly discussed the status of the achievement of conditions and
necessity of Loan extension. However, WB could not be convinced by GOI's additional
exnlanation that showed GOI' commitment to_fulfill the conditions and concluded that there was
no possibility to achieve the conditions even after Loan extension. As a result, WB notified GOI
ard   .1-J.-U of4- th -ra .es.;r   ..t..'..t -U l.A 00-,v.hu the 2rd- .i,1a.hWr.ae
!Arnougn JBIC unaersrooa nar itne WE supervision mission in August 2000 expressed concern
about the difficulty offulfilment of all the loan conditions for the 2nd tranche, at the CGI
meeting in October 2000, the 2nd tranche of the SSNAL was specifically included in the WB's
disbursement pledge. That regrettably misled the co-financier about the status of SSNAL until
the very last moment when WB notified there would be no Loan extension. The lesson learned
from SSNAL is that we should have more detailed guidelines and framework to operationalize
the Procedural Arrangement to minimize possibilities to mislead each other. "
The co-financing led to mniscommunication with JBIC and substantive disagreement about the
W'II~IJ I   LID.V i,rIi C 1'JL  L U1OI LrIu".~ III  VJ.~i IJ ~  &V I.. . JIii.1   ILi1L UIaL IL Wa3D IKL alVJU LI
informed and consulted by the WB before the decisions were taken.
The question is: can The Bank help out the Japanese meet their legitimate financing targets
without getting itself into the position again where the institutions are in conflict. One lesson is
clearly to have better communication and establish a means of informing each other on all major
substantive decisions that allows adequate time for resolving miscommunication. However, there
is no guarantee that even with ample communication there will not be disagreement. How can
that be addressed. One possibility is that The Bank could get JBIC to write legal documents that
Allowed them tn fnrm the-ir own, in.depndent, judgments about whether conditons had been met.
It is doubtful that they will agree to this, as it defeats to some extent the purpose of The Bank
providinLg UUlo Ivan ppiu duL supenv-ision srvice.
- 18 -



A second possibility is to only allow co-financing of first (or only) tranches. If of course The Bank
stops two tranche operations this is moot.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Since the second tranche of the loan did not disburse, and the ratings on sustainability is
'Uiiky , soume explnikUUUUI of-why 'uIh UlLUa   ULU did not dUUThiib  isl in rUdir.
U- O~T AT                                I -L I--   --- 
ITe, SSlNAL sei ambitious perfurrnance wtrget oii ooin new SiN programis anu innovative
safeguarding activities for those programs. Substantial progress was made in both areas. The
OPK, SBG, and J-PS-BK programs made impressive gains. Some of the safeguarding activities
went well and set precedents that can be sustained and replicated in the new decentralized
environment for programs and projects. However, the ambitious targets were not achieved by
December 2000. Rather than change the goals, the Bank [and GOII decided to allow the loan to
expire rather than extend its (already twice extended) closing date. This reflects a commitment to
a new and more transparent working arrangement that is GOI nnlicv
Th'"ue SSNAL as presented to the World B 's Board         te to be a one-.ye& r pro,g  1. All
of the conditionality for the second tranche referred explicitly to the GOI fiscal year 1999/2000.
One of the key second urancne conudions was that tnere nad to De --aaequate performance-- m the
key SSN programs in at least three months. Adequate performance was defined as meeting the
performance targets in both program implementation and safeguarding in all but one of the SSN
programs that were in operation in any given month (so that one program missing its targets
would not block performance). In addition, each program had to have at least one month of
successful performance. In negotiations with the GOI it was agreed that reaching adeauate
perfornance in 3 of the 12 possible months in FY 1999/2000 constituted an ambitious (since
progrmm hAd ne.ver been subjected to this level of scrutiny before) but achievable target. In fact,
the original loan document set the closing date for the loan for Dec 31, 1999 in anticipation of
rapid complJeltion of Ul fU1I st, 1IIU Ov AIvLrU UaLA.11 LLLiLAU1h1ULI.
However even tnougn tme ioan was approved by the Board in june i999 tme disbursement of tme
first tranche did not occur until January 2000 and the loan closing date was extended until June
2000. Even though there was no direct legal or financial connection between the disbursements
of the SSNAL and the operation of the programs, in reality this delay caused the release of the
funds for project implementation to be delayed. This delay meant that three of the programs
(which were rupiah mumi financed) were not implemented at all in FY 99/2000.
lp.rmicp nf thk delyv it ws agrpped thnt the nprinoi in Wuhis h the GMlT eiild meiet the t rgpt nf
three months of adequate performance would be extended to include the nine month FY 2000
nAAA-         -L-  T: V  .. .AnPA ALA_  A  li  --   Ulu  [ /' n..LA A1n _:-  _ TLAA_Ast2'- l- A_ _ A -: A
kuv,auzv ui L- ir wa; v.uaurbu r i 77/ VVV liau Xu IlUiILUI; auu r I I.uVuv liU HIUlU). I11Ub IILVUHL
that essentially the GOI had 21 months to achieve the same performance targets originally slated
for only 12 months. With agreement of the Bank on the design of the programs and with an
agreement on the program by program performance targets for FY 2000 the loan closing date was
therefore extended until Dec 31, 2000, with the anticipation that the performance targets and
- 19 -



reporting and vertication would have been fully completed by that date.
When the loan closing date was reached the conditions had not been met. In spite of the success
of some of the SSN programs and the important innovations in openness, consultation, and
safeguarding made, the World Bank exercised its option to not extend the closing date of the loan
fnr fonr reasons. First, is was administratively imnnpsihle to extend the nerind fnr comnliance
within the structure of the existing loan agreement given the decentralization that happened in FY
2001 as mawy oft e progra.-as c-1A' not -ny, longe lbe i.n.nln,a   as -r4 -;-.lll A-ineA
'JJIA.VV JflL  IJ LA , j)l51 ~ lA  L%JUL"% JIuI GL". IIJJLnr%,IU..  5pl1~U~t V., U1lrLUGIL1J '.J~0WAVU..
Second, there was considerable uncertainty as to whether certain of the conditions could ever be
met as agreed (e.g. conditions on consultation with civil society groups on the procurement
regulations, their participation in the SSN programs, the extent of district level meetings on SSN)
On the substance of the compliance with loan conditions see the detailed note "The SSNAL Disputed Conditions.".
Third, importantly, even by December 2000-4hree years after the crisis began-certain of the
SSN programs had not reported a single successful month and hence the only hope the condition
could be met was that their performance in December successfully met the target for that month.
Even if the loan closing date were extended sufficiently to allow for reporting on the performance
of each of the SSN programs (and verification of those reports) it w2s not nt al clear the mnot
important second tranche condition-SSN program performance-would ever be met. Fourth,
Cven iu y some 1.. IjJVUaUL%, combJLioUUnU VI of VcVUfl -Lv lozn %,nIULL1LLUJ.i.0 wer Lw.tUInu y r.etI. by
performance in December of 2000 it hardly seemed in the original spirit of the loan agreement
approved in june 1999.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7T5 Governmrnit ip mfinpo   manro:
The second tranche conditions were not fully met due to the many difficulties encountered during
7.6 !,,mplementing Ageny-
-20 -



BAPPENAS was the implementing agency and as an implementing agency of the overall SSNAL
their performance was "mostly satisfactory". However some of the sectoral ministries (and
Bappenas as an implementer of a program) were unable to launch programs under revised
guidelines in time, so their performance would have to be `unsatisfactory"-although the reasons
for failure were complex and sometime not under the control of the ministries (e..g. the change in
govemrments led to ministerial change) Promeess and cnnsultation requLrements tended to be
weakly met.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
TTInqtisfacntry. The broad range of obiectives were not met to the extend which would enable second
tranche release.
8. Lessons Learned
Lesson: Adjustment loans of sufficient magnitude to have macro-economic consequences are
very high profile, and hence are a very problematic instrument for institutional changes.
*   Lesson: No more two big tranche operations. Avoiding multiple tranche operations in
volatile environments is recommended Bank practice now in any case.
*   T esson: AdAiintmi.-nt Innin thnt renuite rrnQc_QPttnrnI imnlpmontatinn (ean nnnoned to
simply policy adoption) by line ministries will be complicated.
*  J 'son  void adusLLu..e,.LLt loan withL process condit:ons whetever possible ',.he
process is a necessary part of the condition, do consultations very early in the loan
preparation (so they can be done a number of times, if necessary).
* Lesson: Avoid cofinancing of second tranches.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
* Desnite all the lessons learned from efforts to fulfill SSNAL's conditionalities, government
officials continue to think that is unfair of the Bank not to extend the loan and give GoI
opporl tr~^ -lAll all the senicond tranhe'sc rnmAitionsa
t FWL&n . ..n.  w  ..fi.  SJS OW.-J* - - - 
* Lesson: For a national program, the central government should have a general but reliable
poverty data necessary o prepare geograpbiC LkUng do-w *o *Le diUUML level.. rom +e
sub-district downward, geographic allocation should be conducted locally by the local
government band in hand with civil society.
*   Lesson: Uniform and nationwide program should be replaced by specific and flexible program
based on local needs and characteristics, which are able to be quickly disbursed.
* Lesson: good governance initiatives is a long-time effort, while SSN program is a rescue and
short-time effort. Although sometimes conflicting, it was the auspicious time to instfill good
governance values and start implementing them as the country is in a transition stage.
/(Se Ar,r.ex 7 1 f-r C'. surnf..a.f the rm,I,i,'f. n report on VAS n,, its vf,n7faznvd.i. 
(b) Cofinanciers:



(See the comments by JBIC inserted into section 5.4)
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
*   In spite of the transparency that the Bank tried to implement within its institution --in addition
to transparency instilled all through the SSN program cycle as part of the government effort-
civi! society orgraniz_t.ons continluef to h;nl- fhnt foep rBankn ic a non-trancnsprent inctilht_tn tlhat
applies double standard: unwilling to disclose all SSNAL documents (e.g. Minutes of
1-4V%V.UL1U1io) W LUI s jJu&ingll VVIJIV eryn  LU tUJsPUIL fIo andU appliy udLu0paIaIII..%y VIfIfo.
* While understandably never formally praising the Bank, the CSOs were almost uniformly are
pleased that the Bank did not disburse the second tranche given that the Go!, by their
standard, did not fulfill second tranche's conditions.
* SSN and its safeguarding designs are seen as full of gaps, a clear reflection that Gol as well as
the Bank misunderstood how communities work at the lowest level.
(See Annex 7.2 for summary of CSOs comments on SSN programs and its safeguarding)
10. Additional Information



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Loa Frame Matrix
Outcomel Impact Indicators:
I        IndIiitorIMstrIx    I       Prmlectedin last PSR.  I     AciaLate4t- EsUm_ate
I     ___        .__                               _ I1                    ..__  _
Output Indicators:
IndWatr/Matrix              Prolected In lastPSR         AtuajlLatest Eitlmate.
End of project
NA
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1 -  A-praisai: . | AitfualiLaat`t | Percentage of 1
Estimiate  :--    mate-       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US 'm~ bIin   --US$nmillion.;
Total Baseline Cost                                    0.00            0.00
T.   P. la p'_                                 __rt  _ _    _  _   _ n  nn_I_I
Total Financing Required                000             0.00
NA
-24 -



rrojecx C.osts Dy rrocuremeni Arrangements (Appraisai Estimatej (US$ mii;;on equivaient)
I .                  .--A--u.N-r^   E--  ~  |i ~-b-~ ft-f_ 1 ,Pirocurern.nt Meth'od.-  , 
L12?7-T-1               {      ,;< - -       B;   -I                  N.r.        I UNLa
2.rGoods                   0.00         (0.00     1    0.00     [    0.00         0.00
(0.00)_(0.0.00)             (00) (0.00)                0.00)
___________ ________ _ I         I I                  I__ _ _ _ _   ___ ___ ___  (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
I    (0.00)       (0.00)        (0 00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00))       .O0)     I    (o.orn       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00     1    0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
LI   A AA     I    (A lln   I    (A nm    I   (AAl      I           I A
| Total               |     0.00          0.00    |    0.00          0.00     |   0.00
I ____________________ _   I     U(0.00)  1  (0.00)  1   (0.00)   L    (0.00)   1   (0.00)   1
NA
ProJect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-...IM.;.'   PcuremerntiMethod.-
I. Wors                  .    .  .   . . .- NB. . ~.  I  ther        N.B.F.     TaCo
1. Works          ~1    0.00          0.00         0.00     J    0.00    1     .00
t  (0.00)   1    UJU   (0.00)   (Ov)   I   (O OUU)   I  (.00)
.                    .             .             .            .             . N.B
3 . eoros                     0.00          0.00          0.00    |    0.00         0.00
(0.00)    1   (.00j        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Mosc                       0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
~5. Miscellaneous  .I  (0.00)    I   (0.00)    I   (0.00)   I   (0.00)        0 k.00) 
13. Services             |     °.°° r0.00   0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)   [   (0.00)   J    (0.00)       (0.00)
14. Miscellaneous        1     0.00    1    0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
I                 (0-00         (0-0I (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
Is. Miscellaneous        1    0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00 
I~                           A (°A°   I   (°°°     I    (° °°)  Il°O°)        I   (°°°
I                        I    (°.°°)   I    (0.00)   1   (0.00)_1      (0.00)   1     _(0.00)_1
I  To':          1    ~~~~~~0.00  1   .0.00         .0     1    0.00    1    0.00    1
I                 I  ~~~~~~~~~(0.00)  1 (0.00)  1 (0.00)   1   (0.00)   1    (0.00) 
NA
11Figures in parenthesis are the .Moujis to be fiunanced by the Bank Loan. Aii costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, taining, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
E1- -                  -     |:             ~            | Perntage of Apprissal
Component      I      Appraisal.Estimate  -      Actual/Latest Estimate
|          .    .    j  Bank      Gevt.     CoF.     Bank      Govi     CoF.| Bank G1. ov.    CoF.
NA
-26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
-27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
! Stage of Proiect Cycle      !          No. of Persons and Specialty      1    Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc      Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count        i Specialty                       Progress     Obnedive
Identflcation/Prepara1ion
'KTove ..- I !99    8        5    I P8pm   n fficerq- I Sociologkt   s      t      SS
2 Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
April, 1999                 16   2 Program Officers, 2        |                    S
Economist, 1 Sociologist, 3
Sr. Operation Officers, 8
Supervision        200Consu1tants
January, 2000               29   2 Program Officers, I Sr.           S             S
Economist, 4 Economists, I
Sociologist, 4 Sr. Operation
Officers, 1 Sr. Disbursement
Ofilcer, I1 Promocurmnt.
Officer, I Financial
Ms-nagemeRnt Spec-RWist- I  
Operation Officers, 11
Consultants
ICR
October, 2001                3    1 Economist, 1 Social Devt.        U             S
Consultant, I Civil Society
Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Ctycle  |                Actual/Latest Estinate
I__ _ _ _ _   Nop Staffvweeks      -US$ ('001)
Identification/Preparation  1            0.03         r         198.312.00
|Appraisal/Negotiation
I Supervision                             74.42                   331,770.18
ICR                                      3.50                    11,446.56
To__                         l          77.95                   541,528.74
-28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H  O SU O M O N    O NA
OI SectorPolicies                     OH OSU*M ON          O NA
El Physical                           O H OSUOM O N        * NA
O Financial                           O H O SU O M O N     O NA
El Institutional Development          0 H O SU *M 0 N      0 NA
O Environmental                       O H OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
LO Poverty Reduction            O H O SU O M    O N  O NA
Oi Gender                       OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
L Other (Please specify)        OH OSUOM ON          * NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    0 N * NA
O Public sector management            0 H O SU O M    0 N * NA
OI Other (Please specify)             OH   OSUOM ON        * NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O] Lending                                          OHS*S        Oru   OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
Overall                                             OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Durrower perAurmarie                            uaing
O Prnanrnt.in                                       OHS        S  O  r  O H
O Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     * U    O HU
M Imnlementation agencv nerformance                 C) HS 0 S    C U    O HUi
O Overall                                           OHS OS         U   O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
7.J. C  1.I1.NT F   RM TIHE  M.   1 E 1 . TNTCT AGENCY
.V7AY. T ~. Y`YA..V%ML A A *Tbd±T1A dnflk sY..-%VQ fl±AsJ .C an1fi A lrt Cat L ar  rA Mr
EJr  AT RtEPOA'I'1/ KJ  T O L     ' ' -C'T A T S-FlT ^   fET1' NE1T ^U  IT'S
SAFEGUARDING
Introduction
When the economic crisis crashed Indonesia in the end of 1997, many devastated impact come
to arise, including social and political crisis. As the economy was contracted by 13.2% and the
inflation rate reached 77.6% in 1998, number of open unemployment increased significantly
from 4.3 million (4.9% of total working forces) in 1996 to 5.1 million (5.5%) in 1998 -in
addition to growing number of underemplovnment that reached about 8.6 million DeoDle in the
same year.
The population living below poverty line increased significantly from 22.5 million (11.3% of
touu popuiatiion) in 1996 to 495.J Illiion (24.2%-/o) in 1998. Alulough th.e co,ndition lb gett;ng
better -latest projection (February 2000) put the number of poor at 33.2 million (17%). Poor
households consumed food of lower quality (and quantity); their children have a high risk of
dropping out from school; and they could not afford basic health services. In short, the crisis
had reduced access of the poor to receive reasonable income and, hence, deprived their
capability to obtain necessary services that are necessary to develop themselves.
In addition, the price hike has imnacted to the aualitv of nublic services. A big number of local
health centers and hospitals could not retain their services due to the high price of medicines
.Ai -.tuLj7±flflftO. Tnl the educa.Ulh.o Onsector, jJrIyIo y c  aIndJ.RL W'1.rrsAtis cd-*i
not operate at the same level as before the crisis.
The Government's challenge to the above is therefore to respond quickly and pro-actively and
concentrate its efforts on those most affected by the crisis. At the same time, political
transformation-reformasi-that is currently dominating people's political life brings us face to
face with the need for a more transparent and accountable government, a fact which
encourages us to redouble our efforts.
Hence, Govermment of Indonesia and The World Bank nronosed a Social Safety Net
Adjustment Loan (SSNAL) that provide balance of payments and budgetary assistance to the
D        of Tna       *n  rf ir..poverr.e  n 4.o fcn;on of counTrA -  's scia!- safety net
operations through policy reforms and actions in two areas, improving program design and
safeguarding key safety net programs.
- 31 -



* Financial Aspects
In fiscal year 1998/1999 -the first post-crisis years- as the private sectors were relatively
collapsed, the government increased its development budget significantly to stimulate economic
activities. And, as the poverty incidence was extremely high, the proportion of the budget
allocated for SSN programs -together with other social sectors programs- was also relatively
hivh (1-337%)- In the last two vears; as the qncio-eGnnomi2 cnnditinns were gPtting heif-er its
allocations were also reduced. A more detail description on budget allocated for SSN
nrnnrnn.tc . * aI%nnm  *n  T'nl3            - 1
yLJ5JaLn  10 ot , vvav  n  A atflt,v .
-32 -



Table L Budget Alocation, Implementing Agency, and Source of Funds for SSNPrograms
Fiscal Year 1998/1999, 1999/2000, and 2000
P rogramllnterventlon Area              Budget allocation (billion rupiSh)      Implementing         Budgat
1998u1999     199912000   | 2000           Agency            Source
Food Security:                                             6S3           11
1. |Specuria M  ety:  Operatlon for Rlce (OPK),  p                    5        8   BULOG & DDN OD       State budget
ranar.agnen-,n and safeguarding only         I-
2. National Food Security Program through Farmers           633             0        0    M in. of Agriculture  State budget
rEmpowerment nPKPN-MfPgMcP)                                                                       ,,rJB
3.  Dvopment of Pou:'try Rural Rearing M u:::tp:ioat:o   0             7        0M0n f giulu-                JSl
Centre (RRMC)
4. Rehabiltation of Brackish Water Shrimp Culture            0JBIC
jEducation:                                               2.923{        2.054 |  1.066 I
5. |Scholarship and School Block Grant(5BG)                1.1381        1.2091     6671    DEPDIKNAS        I ADB.WB & i
1l. Scholarship for University Students andiSiock Grant 1   338           309         0 0I  DEPDIKNAS          State budget
17. |Operational and Maintanance Funds for Primary          595           5361      3991 DEPDIKNAS, DEPAG,    State budget
| Schools IDOP SDtM iI                                                                    & DDN-OD
l8. I Primary School Rehabilltation and Development  |      852                         DEPDIKNAS, DEPAG.     State budget
I I                                                                                          & DDN _ __  _OD_
[Health!                                                 2.270 f       1.682    1.280I
9. ISSNinHealthSector(JPS-BK)                             1.0431        1.0301     867|     M In. of Health   ADB & state
Social Welare (~~-oI                     I                    Ill  1| 88*     fSca      }r       budget 
I   l                                            l              l            l         |       BKSN          |   budget
I   SlpemcifiBlockGrantforCommunityHealthCentres            721             0        0  M In. of Health &DN- | State budget
I    I                                          I              I             I        I          -
12. Supplementary Food for Primary School Students          414          550       345      Intemectoral      State budget
|  (PMT-AS) 
Employment Generation:                                   2.045!        1.000      441                       1
|13.1 Laborintensive Program to Eradicate Crisis Impacts    5971            01        01  Mn. of Manpower      State budget
|  IPDKM K)                                                                 i
14. LaborintensiveforTrainedWorkingForces(P3T)  I           399           0°         0    Min.of Manpower     Statebudget
15. ILabor intensive Program in Forestry Sector             491            0°       0°     M in. of Forestry  State budget
j16. lLabour Intensive Program in Public Works Program      859           8501      3661 M In. of Public Worksi  State budget
(PKSPU-CK In 1998/1999)/ Urban Labour Intensive                                       DEPKIMPRASWiL
(PKP)
i17.|Special Initiatives for Women Unemployment (SIWU)                    18 -'01    751 DEPKIMPRASWIL         State budget
_C_muit Enwr           ntFunds:                1        1.701 1         792 1    436                       1
'18. lEmpowerment of the Regions to Overcome the           1 1.7011       7921      4351      DDN-OD           State budget
Impact of the Economic Crisis (PDM -DKE)     I 
Total Development Budget                                 9.573         5.6456    3.230
lRice Price SubsIdy of OPK program (current budget)  1     5.4501        8.2351               B 32  ULOG      State budget
LTotal Budget                                    |       15.023 |     11.880 j   5.462 j                     j
So&M: sdopted from Irawan, et. al. (2001) with revision on the data drawn from PIN-JPS (2000), Program-Program Jaring Pengaman Sosial
(Social Safety Net Programs) and other TKPP-JPS publications.
Nots:   - BULOG = Logistics Agency, DDN-vD - Miniisuy of Home Affairs ani Regional Au-tnomy, DnrEDiKAS = Minitiy of Nauuoua
Education, DEPAG = Ministry of Religious Affairs, BKSN = National Social Welfare Agency, DEPKIMPRASWIL - Ministry of
Settlement and Regional Infiastructures, JBIC = Japan Ban k for Intemational Cooperation, ADB - Asian Development Bank, WB
= World Bank.
- Tbree programs (PKP, PKPP, and PDM-DKE) were not implemented in fiscal year 199V/2000 due to fiscal limitation.
- 'hrec programs (Development of RRMC, Rehabilitation of Brackish Water Shrimp Culture, and Scholarships and University Block
Grants) were implemented as a regular program (non-SSN) in fiscal year 2000.
- 33 -



T MplementLU-60BLS Program-1-s
* Food Security
The Special Market Operation for Rice (OPK) has been implemented in all provinces since mid
1998. The program provides rice for poor households with subsidized price (Rpl,000/kg). In
its early implementation (July - November 1998), each poor household was eligible for 10 kg
of subsidized rice Der month. As the benefit of the subsidy was too small for each household-
the quantum of rice per household was increased to 20 kg/month in the period of December
1998 - MeArch 2nnn.
--_ __   _          1                i-T TY- 
Based solUIy  l L*Ue [rUepLs of uIe 1 PiC1e11enimg agency kDULOJ or nationa logistics agency),
1.05 million tons of subsidized rice have been distributed to, on average, 5.3 million HHs and
10.0 million MHs in July-November 1998 and December 1998-March 1999, respectively. In
fiscal year 1999/2000, about 2.6 million tons of rice have been delivered to 10.9 million HHs
(19.9 kg/HH on average).
Until two years implementation, the evaluation on this program shows that only 6 % of
beneficiaries received full amount of rice. In rural areas ROO% of the heneficiaries did not
receive a full amount of rice (on average only 11 kg/month). Whether in urban areas indicates
+1,o+ +o b        r       (on- a-    13.3 'g of ,4 .._ce _   ).Af- of +lse con&tion
IJW   Il~  fl~U'±.~k&.1%OiS%~t V~t kw..UV  1..~   r  ML  LUt  U.Axxw'Ji L _Y.  JVLAJot  ULt u%OL  I JU LUJU
happen basically due to their limited budget to buy rice on the full amount (Rp20,000 for 20 kg
.. \
per monfla).
In term of the quality of targeting, the program could be considered as fairly targeted,
particularly in urban areas where about 72% of the beneficiaries were poor households. In
rural regions, LP3ES study indicates a lower performance: only 63% of the beneficiaries are
considered as poor HHs. Nonetheless, the same study shows that the program has transferred
relatively significant amount of money, Rp15,400/HH/month, that mostly spent for other food
consumption and education.
B13 a s eA on +. above-re, 44               in fisca1 ye  00AAA BTJT OG- r.o   tk.
jJ u.L  UJI %  CL.. UU I.F V  IiI  LLL%U%uI.   jLOVICUI.diI, auuu1 LU   iv yai5  I  II..  Avvv iLU UU  L  %IJ~J IUUJ.1VWY  LLL.
mechanism of OPK program to be decentralized to local government. The central level
program management only allocates the amount of rice for each province quarterly based on
provincial requests, and the provincial governments determine district level allocation based on
local conditions. The quantity of rice delivered to each household is determined at local level
based on the capability of the beneficiaries to pay. However a range of quantum is determined
(10-20 kg) at central level to ensure that the subsidy has a major impact on the income of the
poor and to avoid accumulation of rice distribution in one area.
in the npriond of AnrilT.DecerhPr 2000, 1.4 rnillin tnsn of rie. ,xras Air lVn;+.b  o+ 9.7 0.1-;In
HHs (monthly provincial average: 15.1 to 16.7 kg/HHlmonth with a standard deviation of
'J - A -1 1__ILTL_T/__ tL  A-_+ AL  L          _- L___  t- _._ _J_- _ ._- s__ _- 
3.6. t.6 kw1.l/UlUni). ILO iLI IUWtpLLU i1VC UeVLL VtV[iiiVU, L1uCre Ua a bMJAW Wuat LIIC program
implementation in fiscal year 2000 had improved compare to the previous year.
- 34 -



* Social Protection: Education
The program called Scholarships and School Block Grants for Primary and Secondary
Education was implemented to maintain enrollment rate and quality of services at the primary
and secondary education. It targeted 1 8 million primary schoo1l stlidents (6% of total
students), 1.65 junior high school students (17%), and 0.5 million senior high school students
II  ) -YSO.  U1JL.       jii.   ~   VL QIUiU  LLF.3  UML~  LIUU SI  1JMJL J,&J,J'J,
(10%)- -c"hose fa.;lies aepoor-f.o receivWe sCLhU-1 ip            -V th  c..7'1ofPvl2,00
Rp240,000, and Rp300,000/student/year, respectively. The program also targeted 104,339
elementary schools, 18.230 junior secondary schoois, and 9.400 senior secondary schoois (in
total about 60% of total schools -private and public; religious and secular- in Indonesia) to
receive grants of Rp2 millions, Rp4 millions, and RplO millions/school/year, respectively.
The funds were directly channeled to the beneficiaries through post office network in two
tranches annually and would be in operation until fiscal year 2003. It is reported that the
numbers of beneficiaries receiving funds in each disbursement phase were always close to
100% of the targets. For good management of the progm, the World Bank awarded
"President's Award for Excellence" in 2000, as it has effectively maintained the students
paLL.-iciaLfUio atL FJLui.Y and OecordarJY levelJL.
Tne evaluation on scholarship program shows that 72% of scholarships for primary schoois
were targeted accurately to the poorest, although at the secondary level the accuracy becomes
less. They predicted the reason for this "inclusion error" was due to the characteristics of the
senior secondary students that generally not the poorest population. A recent study conducted
by Nutritional Research and Development Center (NRDC, February 2001) also revealed that
22.8% of scholarships recipients were non-poor. CIMU's study also indicates that the
scholarships program has successfully targeted towards girls and has a major impact for poor
fmiluy innGmF-_.c S.MP-RT fv-oia! muofo-i ".- a." E-Ar. Repoe .......  arit .stab.isd.thm a-trr. sppr
firm the World Bank and funded by seveml donor agencies (AusAID, ASEM, etc.)). (August 2000) also supports
uins a1lrUEliLL, aiLuhuuSL UtIhy luuulLaL LuI , ar LI'LUUIt VI nschuoalNIUpn Is fSUCou;UuY lveVl is less
than adequate.
For school block grant, CIMU survey found that it has major contribution to school incomes,
particularly at elementary level (21-23%). At the secondary level its contribution is about
10-11% for public schools and 3-6% for private schools. Contradictive findings were indicated
by SMJERU's study (August 2000) that they recommended to increase the amount of grants for
primary schools to Rp6-8 millions each and to reduce the amount for senior high schools to
Rp5-8 millions. However, both studies recommend that transparency of the grants program
needsA t,o be fos~tered.
*   Socia; roucfn:LUU. ealth
Tlhe most important program conducted in this intervention sector is Social Safety Net on
Health Sector (JPS-BK). This multi-year program -fiscal year 1998/1999 to 2001- provides a
"health card" to poor households in all provinces that can be used to receive free health
35 -



services from local health centers, village midwives, and local hospitals. In the period of
January-December 2000. Fiscal year 1998/1999 funds were disbursed up to December 1999
and the outputs are: 66% of targeted HHs received "health card", 81.4% of "health card"
holders rerpived services 610/% of targeted delivering mothers received services fr.m local
health centers and village midwives, and 69% of targeted poor babies and children received
suppI'^ULL   oodLaLY LU. ofYJ J14.06 :IU:onLL 1tc.  1 w1  13. .V 'I'IUU Ion   1L "ad L%I VV1U U.iIeLU
card", where 50.7% of the cardholders have been receiving free health services.
It is also reported that in the same period that 81.2%, 69.5%, and 78.5% of the targeted
pregnant women, women giving birth, and postpartum mothers have received services from
village midwives. For nutritional improvement, about 51.5%, 52.7%, 43.6%, and 68.8% of the
targeted babies (6-11 months), toddlers (12-23 months), children (24-59 months), and
pregnant/postpartum mothers received supplementary nutrition, respectively, particularly from
the "integrated health services post" (POSYANDU).
However, mis-targeting also occurred in JPS-BK program. About 12.3% and 10.5% of health
__AU_1 AAA_A_  A p et"  w _ 1 : ]]]_ in  A n ElN*vA_AA , A4 A 1 .1 44 _ _ _ Tn 1E%r 
WlLLUlJlU;:0, ^Wi jJ4LVyVY 11I 1777  U UVVV , W JILUa1y ILVtUV1 1U UJ1, FVuI
2001). This may be resulted from lack of community involvement in targeting at village level,
as village nead and the head oI iocal community health center were dominating the
determination of beneficiaries. In addition, limited information dissemination -even to the
program-implementing officials at local level- led to lack of community awareness about their
rights to receive free health services, as well as low disbursement of funds due to lack of
understanding at local program-implementing officials.
a Employment Generation
In fiscal year 1998/1999, two labor-intensive programs were introduced to generate
rapFyI-mulum for Uunu d  abuorers, uLose are L"abor M1Wenwive rrugram  to Eradicate
Monetary Crisis Impacts and Unemployment" (PDKMK) implemented in more than 200
districts, and "Labor Intensive Program in Forestry Sector" (PKK) that was mostly operated
in 155 districts in 19 provinces. PDKMK generated 110% and 88% of the targeted
employment (28 million and 23 million person-working-days) for the two phases of
implementation, while PKK only created 44.6% of the target of 30.6 million
person-working-days. For the skilled laborers, the program of "Labor Intensive for Trained
Work Forces" (P3T) was imnlemented in all nrovinces to generate more than 60,000
employments.
Another efforts in this fiscal year was reorientation of urban infrastructures development to
absorb more unsilied laborers under the program of "Labor intensive Program in Public
Works Sector" (PKSPU-CK) that covered 13 provinces in Indonesia. Of the 12.7 million
person-working-days targeted, only about 50% employment were created.
As indicated by Lewis, et. al. (1999) and URDI (1999), criteria-selection related mis-targeting
and male-biased beneficiaries were the most frequent problems found in the implementation of
various labor-intensive program.  URDI study also indicated that about 30%  of the
- 36 -



beneficiaries were not the intended targets (inclusion en-or). In addition, lack of coordination
among program-implementing agencies at local level (overlapped project and benieficiaries),
lack of community involvement in planning, and unproductive activities that did not provide
nositive externalities (excent cash transfer) were other drawbacks of the programs CTKPP-JPS.
November 1999).
Hence, starting in fiscal year 1999/2000 the four labor-intensive programs were merged into
two programns, 'Labor intensive t..u-rriae urban injrastructures ana Services Program
(Urban Labor Intensive or PKP) and "Special Initiatives for Women Unemployment" (PKPP)
under the coordination of one line-ministry  However, the two programs were not
implemented in fiscal year 1999/2000 due to budget limitation. Political uncertainty and
several big corruption cases has delayed disbursement of several loans supposedly support
budget deficit. (For example, the first tranche of Social Safety Net Adiustment Loan (SSNAL)
from the World Bank was disbursed in January 2000 while the conditions have been met in
Alugust 1999) Finallyv PKP and PKPP were imnlemented in the last nquarter of fical vear 2000
(October-December 2000), although the budget was cut to about alf of the 1999/2000
UiIL1-LU11
Activities  conducted  irl PPr     program   were   constructiontrenabiiitaiion  or
operations/maintenance of urban infrastructures in 59 districts in all provinces. The latest
report (as of December 2000) shows that 226,321 persons (204,029 of which were eligible to
participate) were registered at the registration units opened at sub-district level. The program
had absorbed 193,340 persons to work for about 42 days that generated 8.2 million
person-working-days (101.3% of the target of 8.1 million). 2.0 million employments of which
were generated for women (24.5% of total employments).
PKPP program was implemented to generate employment for unskilled women unemployment
whose pm UL4jJOUVoJ Was V.y 11 Lo i ULIV 17701 1777 1CUU1WI;-LlWnAVe pLuro;6ls. The apprluacu la
bottom-up (demand-driven): any organizations in urban areas may submit a proposal on any
activities (social services, operations and maintenance of infrastructures, and taining) that
would absorb women unemployment. The report as of December 2000 indicated that 83,800
women unemployment (145% of the target or 7.28% of total women unemployment) had been
participating in the program conducted in 143 districts/municipalities in 6 provinces.
* Community Empowerment Funds
The . nrna-m nf "Fm,nnwormpnt of the Roo.anHL fto fnP,.-,nmn the Tmn.n7t nf the R,'nAmnic
Crisis" (PDM-DKE) was firstly implemented in the last quarter of fiscal year 1998/1999 as a
response to Lfe wea-kLuess oite u^1aUr-ni1LVjJive puograim  LU iAnaU"UUVUo UU5 LUr u. i Une   olca
community and to generate more productive outcomes. The most important aspect of the
program is that community groups have to plan the program tnemselves with assistant from
facilitators who help them designing, implementing and monitoring the activities they proposed,
which could be labor-intensive type activities or revolving funds for small-scale businesses run
by the poor.
- 37 -



Of Rpl.70 trillion allocated (the biggest program -in term of fund allocation- among
1998/1999 SSN programs), Rpl.45 trillion were disbursed to about 4 million beneficiaries.
However, low capacity of the village community organizations assuming responsibility of
program implementation at local level, as well as intervention from village head and local
government officials, corruption, and mis-targeting were the major problems occurred in the
fret upyr nf iynlpn,mPntntinn (TWPP-TPS Tl, rPmh.-r 1 QQ).
A lUt__s.   _____   _f 11L .        A   _   3 t _tL___ ___ :_  ___._1nn/n     _
J-UlUUu,l InipluVVilIvIW U1 VW plUgFliiiLl Uv:iliiU IIoU UVa U Um1rUt iU ll: II.ZiWl ykud 1777YIAUVU -a
PKP and PKPP- the program was not implemented until the last quarter of fiscal year 2000
due to lack of fiscal. Several important improvements were on the geographical coverage -not
overlapped with similar regular poverty reduction programs (KDP and UPP, see next section);
organization assumed responsibility as 'village implementing team" was determined by the
communities themselves; and more detail guidelines on village discussions to ensure higher
community participation.
The report as of December 2000 shows that 72.6% of Rp 450,069 billion allocated were
disbursed and 1.53 r.illion people * u-rban and ri.,1 r ae-s hb-ve beein 1.ne.fiteA 4or.- +a
program. Based on limited "complete reports" received at the central level, participation of the
intended beneficiaries and village comlponents (community leader, religious leader, women
group, youth group, and NGO) in series of village meetings held in the planning stage were
relatively high (about 80% of the viilages implementing programs).
Safeguarding Activities
As previously discussed, limnited time available for program preparation and implementation in
the first year of SSN had led to several problems that generate complaints, critiques and
suggestions, either directly given or reported in the news. In general, the problems of SSN
1998/1.0t900 i-mnl-mnta i Yn w.,-Vr   tm L   ;mintatn  -eAl   +1t, -im-  , were nt ,wl
^SSVI~~~~~~_ *//k_sv[  s.; -s  s    W     s  -     F-V-Wbk    W9ro; V
socialized and implemented; (ii) program implementing agencies and the communities
(including beneficiaries) were not ready to implement such a new and quicKly channeied
programs; (iii) the government was not legitimate at that time and the relationships between
government and civil society were not in good conditions; and (iv) the programs were
implemented exclusively by the government, with very limnited civil society involvement.
Hence, in the beginning of FY 1999/2000, a "government - civil society consultation meeting"
was held in April 1999 to discuss the future direction of SSN programs. About 200
noncverrnmentql rc2ani7ntiAnn (!ocA! Amrmmlnitv wnm ^n lahnr relicgniim nndl rpespe,h
institutions) and academicians were gathered and agreed on 13 points of recommendations
tTKPP-JPS,J Ap.. 1999)  Bsed onL  se ad-vises, Oas welJl as brvVim .tLSu aidi i e-xiLUiiai
evaluations, the government made some improvements on targeting, implementation
mechanism and management, and monitoring of SSN programs in F Y 1999/2000.
Improvements of SSN programs are basically taken through the use of accurate and up-to-date
data in targeting process, establishing program implementation monitoring (safeguarding)
activities, program integration, and greater concern on women's participation (TKPP-JPS,



November 1999).   In addition, allocation of funds to the lowest level is done at
district/municipal level -and in certain instances, even at smaller administrative units- allows
flexibility by accommodating the unregistered poor, and involves more non-governmental
parties.
Tn general, sa-feg-rdng acti'it-es consists improverent of the qalisty and coverage of
information dissemination, establishment of complaint resolution mechanism, application of
perfUormanceb-UasbU lrpUltling sysitemll, 1inUdpUndent venrifiCattiOn, Iand enalincemenll;ft O Civill SOCUliety
participation. In order to foster the implementation of those activities (except independent
verification), the government formed Coordinating Team for SSN Programs (.KPP-JPS) at
central, province, and district/municipal level which consists two units: SSN Information
Center (SSN-IC) and SSN Complaints Resolution Unit (SSN-CRU). SSN Controlling Team
(TP GTP-JPS), with members from government officials and nongovernmental organizations,
was established mainly to verify the government reports and providing inputs and
recommendations for nolicv makin8.
* Transparency and Information Dissemination
SSN Information Center was established to actively disseminate information on SSN programs,
and to ensure that any interested narties have easy access to SSN data and information. In
addition to customer-based services, SSN-IC at district/municipal level also produced "SSN
T-P-;- .     1..-on -od2  hich -on.n- brief Vfi.To about         .-AN prg&m-nd +.,' budget
allocation in each administration. The folders were disseminated to NGOs, press, university,
and legislative body, all at local level, and all sub-aistict oinces in each jurisuiction. At the
national level, SSN Informnation Clearinghouse also disseminates informnation through several
publications, bulletin, the web (www.pin-ps.or.id), national newspapers, and television and
radio stations.
In addition, each program-implementing agency also disseminated information through several
modes, such as television and radio stations, newspaper, and local government officials at
suh-district and village level.
* Civil Society Participation
Learning from first year experience, the government supports establishment of "stakeholders'
forimn," MPp) in everv distrinctmnnicipnlitv.  In the operational stage, all civil societv
components and the government may discuss any complaints, issues, and problems in this
-ubli sphere   T Tp +o this point, not I=s +a-  226 dis;cs,'mipal   hav -----s1 U-   V
puu1iV  OFJLL".d  -  L UF  LUL   J9JULLI.,,  "WI,L I .  LUO.LiL  Z2.L   CUiLIMM..C  LUiiICIEU p aa13ine
stakeholders' forum (TKPP-JPS, December 2000).
Citizen participation is not only limited to FLP. Externally, the government encourages NGOs
to monitor the implementation of SSN programs. And, to ensure the independency of the
monitoring activities, the government does not provide funds for them, but encourages donor
agencies to channel their grants directly to any interested organizations. Internally, most of
- 39 -



SSN programs involve civil society representatives in targeting process at local level. Recent
observation shows that this involvement is effectively increase the quality of targeting. In
addition, several nationwide NGOs were also being consulted in the process of program
guidelines preparation and acted as independent evaluators for several programs.
Th_ roles nf eaf h Ot2lAhnder in the imrrin-mPntntinn nf SSN nmornomc     rP q1a  mmari7tI in Tnhale
2 below.
Table 2. Role of SSNStakeholders
Stakeholder   Level
National Local Village
Government   * Determining policy
* Determining implementation guidelines
* Det"miii-ung- geogrphic allocation
* Fostering monitoring and safeguarding (information dissemination, complaint handling and
resolution, and public participation)
* Determining local adjustment necessary for technical implementation
* Determining village level allocation (with civil society)
* Implementing momtonrng and safeguarding
* Facilitating establishment of"Stakeholders' Forum"
* Tmtn1em~.tenli the r.no,m., cn t1,e fi! 
Facilitating community meetings
| Controlling |* Pioviding inputs and recommendation for SSN policy
Team        I* Verifying govemment's rSrts
I*_ Conon ling fme overall implementation of SSN programs
NGO/         o Giving inputs and recommendation for SSN policy and program guidelines
1'm"  ar.g F  fh*hetof 1- . Stehol-s         :
* Facilitating civil society networking in monitoring SSN programs
* Monitoring the program implementation in the field
* Establishing 'Stakeholders' Forum" with local govermnent
* Verifying local govt's reports
* uamnng vuage ievei auocauon twiUn iocai govermment)
* Facilitating local communities in planning and implementation
* Determinine beneficiaries
* Supporting local implementers in program operations
* Monitoring the program implementation at grass-root level
Performance-Indicator-Based Reporting and independent Verification
Reporting is a standard procedure in the implementation of any programs. To assess the
performance of SSN programs, the reporting system is designed to be able to measure the
performance based on agreed indicators (such as number of persons employed, number of
students receive scholarships) and against the agreed targets for a particular indicator.
Bnased  on   the  rponrt ftnm    ear4h imlipemp-ntirina  a,pncy  andi  riewio1nal govtm   pv*   the
Coordinating Team issues SSN Monthly Performance Report that is verified by the controlling
-40 -



A complaint resolution unit (CKU) is established not only within the SSN Coordinating Team,
but also embedded into each program-implementing agency at each level (national, province,
and local). The unit's main task is receiving and taldng necessary actions to follow-up each
complaint within a certain period. Another important characteristic of CRU is that it should
report the complainant and general public (through FLP or the press) of the corrective actions
have been taken.
Recent data ificat.es thht 2,222 TV m-1ea-,tm s , kli _eu _been A r iv   rPT t.11 levels fr. .1
* Wf,  ,rn   .n...ka   JA   ,A.A   ~J**JMJ hO  M _ %v  *tel .VV -   Vj  tt.J-  Ut   ILLL  IS/   -1 *~I
programs implemented in fiscal year 2000; 1,595 cases (71.7%) had been resolved and the
reiiining are in the process of invesutgation. For auiminisu-ative problems, corrective action
may be taken by each program implementing agency or local government themselves.
However, some cases that indicated criminal misconduct have been referred to the attomey and
police to be followed-up by regular law enforcement procedure.
Lessons Learned
* Planning and Delivery Mechanism
Social Safety Net programs are central government's initiative and, hence, have a "top-down"
characteristic. However, local governments assumed very important role in local targeting
(determining village allocation) and made nereesary adjustment to adopt necifle local
conditions in the implementation. And, starting in fiscal year 1999/2000 this responsibility was
fnos'r.4 *)l-ouhlh ifl¶flltflliffl*nenf Inn., cirv;l sciet tof,,* 1'o zn~  ' "nr,.rev.tnv non,,rahl,ng nWfflfcss"
At the village level, local communities were the main actor in the targeting process through the
mecnanism of- vilage commun- ty mecungs (musdes). Based on these pianning processes, the
programs were directly delivered to the beneficiaries themselves, without going through the
structure of bureaucracy.
We could not say that the system had been nnning well in the implementation stage. In some
regions, involvement of local civil society in local tarzeting process indicated more mobilization
of nongovernmental individuals to fulfill the requirement of the program guidelines rather than
supporting public participation to imprTve targeting nsnalitv  At the viilac- l'vpl, there were
some evidences that village community meetings were never held. Even if the meetings were
helId,'Se drV     of "IILLZcUeII WI   ULVUULI%  \(e.g. V-ar"ze hLeaU, scLhool LuaaivJU) La U iIIIiIir
beneficiaries was still high. In delivery, although leakage was relatively low, several local
corruption cases were stiun happeined.
Nonetheless, for a national program (cental government initiatives), this innovative
mechanism should be utilized and fostered in the future. It is impossible for the central
govermnent to collect and maintain a detail data of poverty of all regions with several specific
-41 -



local characteristics. What the central government should have is a general -but reliable- data
on poverty that necessary to prepare geographic allocation (at district level). The next process
should be conducted at the local level by the government and civil society to incorporte more
dvmrmniG and Snecific needs of its nonulationn
* Decentralization
In the era of regional autonomy that is fully started this year, local governments assume the
authority of most pu blic qervices, and- hence, lo.al initiative social safety net and novertv
reduction programs should be fostered. Uniform and nationwide program should be replaced
by specificL Fpro,"^r.^ ul"^t, flen;ble r.oe  UVcy c-^U.lvd, and based onW..  nesn
characteristics.  However, it is necessary to build awareness of local civil society and
community to vanguard the government to be responsive to fulfill the rights of its people to
development.
However, there are several preconditions for planning and implementing such local poverty
reduction and safety nets programs. First, as previously mentioned, there is a need of available
and reliable poverty data that based on local characteristic. Second, institutional capacity
building, particularly to foster community initiatives and participation is very important to
incrPwrq the effiectivtemtq nf lnrsl nnvertv rer-bwctinn and safe.tv net. 7hird- lncal RtAkehnidemr
need to mobilize altemative resources for local poverty reduction and safety nets, particularly
*UIU LUe jjp1vaLt sctorJi ( -uds) and civl vocie y (eApe..ise). F-ou41,.h, Li, wVoU 'db Ver.; VIkUVe
if community initiative programs, NGO's and private sector activities, and govemment efforts
in poverty reduction were integrated.
* Enhancement of Safeguarding Activities
Initiation of three pillars of good govemance -transparency, public participation, and
accountability- tnrough SSN safeguarding mechanism is long-time efforts that needs to be
sustained, enhanced and widen in the scope of programs. Although it was sometimes
conflicting -SSN is a rescue and short-term effort while good governance is an ideal condition
that could not be reached in such short period, it is the auspicious time to instill the values and
to start implementing them, as the country is a transition stage of most aspects of govemance.
However, there are several lessons can be learned from two-year experience of fostering SSN
c,of,,,vA -iag oc,Zi4-ps F.Vrst, it is noit on y'i th e'ocapa_it o~f pubici1 ofiil thaAt m,,fterc, bu1t
-more important- is the awareness and spirit of incorporating public in decision making
processes, as well as being transparent and aco-uuntabie. On tuhe ouler hand, capacity of local
civil society -and its independency from local govemment- after the era of centralistic and
exclusive govemance needs more facilitation and supports from the civil society themselves.
Second, the quality information dissemination is still widely criticized even until the end of SSN
and its safeguarding implementation. Despite its timing that was always behind the program
implementation, SSN information dissemination was also biased by the "paradigm of
-42 -



production" rather than "marketing". Lack of emphasis on what information needed by each
s+e1h_U_eA -an how -n;ol -P-4;n can zeach he +---t grops in aAd;tion +.o th  enr
tIakehoIUdUr £ILLL  LvIU VY 10ikUIIJ.LIUJ  CLGi kva%O.J.d  U1C  LaIr19 r,Vu0 ~I UjJ   ILuLa,LU.Lv 1,J U A e JL  IU I
manner of dissemination, led to limited understanding and awareness of the stakeholders
(particularly the targeted beneficiaries) to participate in the program.
Third, lack of grievance mechanism in the last few decades of development has made it difficult
to introduce the new system. Despite relatively high performance of some programs and
regions, most of the community and civil society groups were not encouraged to raise
complaints due to lack of trust to the government. In order to build confidence that each
complaint received will be followed up by a corrective action, it is necessary for the
nrgr2mm-imnnlpm.tncr no agenci to invnlvp relted inctititinins (siuh s polircei dktrtnt ttArynpv
and the government's internal auditor) in this mechanism.
7.2. COMMEANTIS iFOM THE CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS
The following are comments that the Bank collected during a Focus Group Discussion
organized by SMERU Research Institute in January 2002. The discussion was attended by
civil society organizations from Jabotabek area and Bandung with the following objectives:
* To obtain in-depth feedback, especially from Civil Society representatives/organizations
(tcSOs) on t.he f.ve ,r'mnnpnPtnt nf VZNMAT enfpmniarAto irnogrme 1lRr ic 'g.v.n
primarily to programs concerning OPK Beras (subsidized rice distribution), Beasiswa &
,-M,-ir% /QQC T             T"    1TfC n ICp /~'T  -' 1...1A  ---  -N  TITPi rTT..L_.  T _1....
DDBO (SSN' I-Li eZUducauo se'orI), .'PS-BKs (SSN Hin headlth sec'or), PKP ktUrban Labori
Intensive) and PKPP (Special Initiatives for Women Unemployment), and PDM-DKE.
*   T o assess opinion of Civil Society Organizations on each component of SSNAL
Safeguarding, and to identify lessons learned from the implementation of safeguarding
measures in each SSN program mentioned above.
*   To share experiences of Civil Society Organizations on the implementation of
safeguarding measures in each SSN program.
*   To collect recommendation and input from Civil Societal Organizations on appropriate
improvement measures to be taken in future implementation of safeguarding, along with
naQrwZ mpamirpe +fr ptneim-p tc cl,,tah<1ihr
iiat uiscussion was iocusedu at 'Ul saicguadiuug aspects VI SSNtuAL iuu an  i'usimpleumeLUU
within the SSN programs. Following is a summary of the result of the discussion.
I. Transparency: Information Dissemination and- Public Information Center
* Identified constraints in the field:
o   Most targeted nrogram beneficiaries have low levels of education, hence unable to
read various printed information such as posters, pamphlets. Beneficiaries live in a
rem,ote area aray 4fr-om, ;nforvmation center thus hal e aifficuFies in accessing
information.
-43 -



o   Lack of motivation on the part of government officials to disseminate the
LuwJ"o..""on, uSSN' Fp.v"u1 cre deme  as Mu adiioa b``d
o   Health Cards were issued without clear procedures; many hospitals refused to extend
validity dates, therefore the cards were not valid for fuure use.
O   Difficulty in finding accurate data on families living in poverty due to lack of
motivation on the behalf of village officials to identify poor families.
O   There is a broad gap between urban (highly educated) and rural (low educated), or
unskilled laborer) community mhembers complicate selection of recipient regions.
Difficulty in identifYing criteria of families in poverty, due to nonexistence of poverty
mapping and accurate data on poverty.
o   Pmr.e_s nf proram socinli7ntion deemed ineffectiv.e and not field-test-d.
o   The government, held responsible for information dissemination, lacked awareness in
execuLn 4 its+ duties, --I.-el  -gotf..a'tis
o   Program socialization by central government was carried out only for lower level
government apparatus, such as village officials.
o   Information provided only on those related to the project, did not raise awareness of
the rights and responsibilities of SSN beneficiaries.
S Suggestions for improvement:
o   Train Puskesmas personnel to set up customer services units providing adequate
infhrma^tnin nin 4Zro,M nrnamm
O   Modify existing mechanism based on increased demand and participation of local
comMUDUU ; *o VraUIiuc sense of' Ow-werbhip dIU responsiUbILy.
O   Update information, using simple and easy to understand language.
O   Disseminate information using "Indonesian approach through various informal
institutions in the community, such as PKK, Kelompencapir (Listening and
Television Viewing Group, etc.).
o   Disseminate information through local people, appoint village-level facilitators, and
use the local dialect to communicate ideas.
o   Provide sufficient training for field facilitators to ensure sufficient knowledge and
skills.
WPT rnu PUW at of11-ran 1oy1art Q f^  nfi fmA;l;o in -"vrty
v, v wvs  v   m4- 5. -- _W W    *    -J AWofl.flL%d
o   Encourage.dissemination of information in urban areas through direct verbal
contacts.
O   Clearly appoint those responsible to distribute information, thus a need to have
better method of information dissemination, especially to increase awareness of
beneficiaries regarding their rights and responsibilities.
o   Eliminate information units at central, provincial, kabupaten, and kecamatan levels.
Emphasis should be given to information units at the village level.
O   The need for effective information media at local level; television is considerably
etffective huit ton exnenive.
O Use local field facilitators to communicate information verbally.
O   T-P-sla;- 7n ---- gener l pb;- shu_1A be A.iffent-+At 4f.-om 4;raunfr p
L L"I1JuILOIJIcLLL JwIL 6~u"vi"L jJuuIi.. OJLuW&Ul Vu, %&JI1LL.ILULQL-U L.IUZ ILLL,JILJULUU JAIUL jJiUr'LUM
beneficiaries.
- 44 -



* identified Constraints:
o   Provided Complaints Box are nearly always empty.
o When someone does file a complaint towards a certain party in the government, they
often feel hopeless and skeptical that the complaint will be processed and responded
properly, they may even face intimidation from another party.
o   Many complaints are left unresolved, discouraging community members to report
more recent cnmnplaints. Tf r2cnnne nnrn1ninrinteiv this wAs often not
communicated to the public, leaving the public to assume that no complaint has been
ijauu1t'u apJJIupiauly.
o Complaint function is still vague as to its purpose, whether it functions as a public
service or as impiementers of measures against deviants.
o   Nonexistence of legal protection and safety protection of the complaint filer may
discourage a potential criticism to be raised into public discourse.
O UPM (Complaints Resolution Unit) are ineffective in solving reported problems.
o UPM is located too far away from poor communities, therefore the transportation
costs to reach UPM beyond their means, compared to the perceived importance of
the potential complaint to be filed.
o   l TPM has suciceeAA in handling vnrinus cnmplaints aboult the program (clarifying
measures), but unsuccessful in handling irregular cases.
O Comlnplaj.in sULU IAJU L"sIUy,IL- laLUuvib are aln 4UalL nU AieULt. LVYO%t wpAJV1^i-atUs areI
filed by program providers, for example: complaints that beneficiaries are not living
in poverty, aid for village midwives are iarger tnan aid for midwives helping the
poor.
* Suggestions for improvement:
o In corporation with Pemda and NGOs, establish secretariat for Complaints
Resolution Units, with financial support from Pemda. All complaints should be
anp%ropir.afilu riwpnnnA-d.
O Involvement of prominent local figures in complaints resolution is strongly advised.
O    'urMiv shoulU 'i--lu UVVIe WLulpaisUL* LU I locaU gLUL,& OUVVLLUUJL, agrrlU%y in orIUe LU
facilitate appropriate response to complaints.
o   The need for community awareness activities to encourage communities to actively
participates in the form of filing their complaints.
o   The term "pengaduan (accusation)" has negative connotations, should be changed to
"keluhan" (complain).
o   Develop complaint mechanism with clear sanctions.
O Configure appropriate legal measures to protect those who file their complaints.
O   Complaint Resolution Units should be located close to the communities, in order to
facilitte commun1ty control and facilitate repnort of complaints or critique.
O   Presence of complaints units should not provoke community members to focus on
-45 -



complaints, but to also focus on finding suitable solutions together.
o   rei-sence ofl CUIori-ijmpl Resol-ution UUUi UmL h ELIUU1LU IUL UhLI-I'h WIUI VAnIg Uofict
resolution mechanisms in the community.
o   If a complaint is successfully handled, it is best to inform the public so that similar
complaints elsewhere can be responded to in the same way.
o   The government is responsible for all complaints. Even so, independent institutions
may be established, limiting their activities to ensure that the government is taldng
appropriate measures in response to the complaints.
o   Need for public-service-oriented NGOs in rural areas.
O   Introducing the functions of Complaint Resolution Units prior to program
o   Mechanisms of complaint resolution should have been drafted and approved before
initiation of p[ograrn.
HI. Roles and Increased Participation of the Community
*   Identified constraints:
o   Misuse of FLP (Stakeholders' Forum) by various NGOs seeking information on
governrnent nroiects.
O   FLP as a decision making body is dominated by members from government agencies.
O   Fo...,ation .-A -esVmt.ns.ent o FLP appea.-  -t be  v  ..ent-i;tiated, .-.t 4f.-'JI
and by the community.
o   Estiablished and funded by the central govermment, FLP had been misusea, abused
and consequently distrusted by the public who claimed that most of the fund had
been used for 'projects'.
* Suggestions for improvement:
o   Government should not dominate FLP as decision making body.
o   FLP as an institution should be fiurther developed becaurse it could be the embhrvo for
further dialogue between government and civil society.
o   Create r.1ecANHSHI for a Ut1jarwarent diaLUU ogUVeWr.1vee gvrUV,1L1VEn and civil society.
o   Local government should initiate FLP so that it can work together with the
community, therefore encouraging community participation.
o   Involvement and participation of community members should be voluntary, not
coerced by a certain party.
IV. Monthly Assessments, Reporting Systems and Independent Verification
*   Identified constraints:
o   Discrepancy of data between reports at central and regional offices.
o   P annrtc ,arp nrpraA i-  a r.plex forr.a .an b r t n
o   Lack of report at village levels as to who received and who did not receive rice.
-46 -



o   Reports were prepared according to guidelines, but failed to reflect the real
conditions in the field.
o   Communities found difficulty in obtaining reports from executing program provider
or executioner.
* Suggestions for improvement:
o   Establish and implement a 'reward and punishment' system for those who wrote
report.
o   Provide taining to improve technical skills in report writing.
O   Simplify report format, include only the most important details for higher efficiency
and to minimize data deviation.
o   Allowance for some flexibility in reportage, as long as the main goal is achieved.
o implement a more effective mechanism in sending data to central office and
government. This requires awareness of responsibility held by corresponding official.
o   Ch0 ge +n,- -a.nv   of C, -o.-Ar fir -rron. ran-r-+q For exomnIa n. PK
o  ~~LL% FLu~pLa..nuS&. LL. atf&LA. 0w FAn jJLJ5Jflh -AjtLtO  f 1fLLAf--  LlAA
Beras, according to the guideline each family is entitled to receive 20kg/month,
however, in reality the same amount had been allocated for two faiilies. A-uditors
should be able to tolerate such local adjustment because the goal of the program is
nevertheless achieved.
7.3. SSNAL IN THE BANKS EXTERNAL WEBSITE
PFlhdimArig Are infn%rmnf-nn pnnted in the 1on1r's Peti2rnl wehQitp not 1on,c after the decisinn
was made not to extend the loan closing date.
http-uIuwvu IO.                           JId1U7UO
nuLp:t/liiwEu 1O.-Woriuua-L.olr,yeap/eap.riis/ JVVLJvUejl 1a,u7uauoJ
2568a3006f557d/projects?OpenDocument
-47 -



I  Report No.:         24340
TvDe-      ICR



