Report No. PID7400
PID7400.TXT
Project Name                     Indonesia-Social Safety Net Adjustment (@)
Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Sector Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       IDLL63939
Borrower                         The Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency              BAPPENAS
Date this PID prepared           April 26,1999
Appraisal date                   April 1999
Projected Board date             May 18,1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      This proposed operation is an adjustment operation to support policy
reforms improving the implementation of the safety net programs that respond
to the social dimensions of Indonesia's economic and financial crisis. The
policies aim to safeguard and make better?through improved targeting,
monitoring, and information dissemination?existing safety net programs, and
work to protect the expenditures that are crucial to the poor. The Bank's
earlier quick disbursing support for Indonesia's reform program was a $1
billion fast disbursing loan (Policy Reform Support loan) approved by the
Board on July 2, 1998, and a $20 million Bank Restructuring Adjustment TA loan
approved on December 3, 1997.
Project Rationale
2.      This loan is an integral part of the overall package of external
assistance for Indonesia agreed upon by the IMF, the World Bank, the ADB, and
bilateral donors at the July CGI meetings to provide external support to the
government's budget. It forms an important component of the Bank's interim
Country Assistance Strategy focusing on ensuring short-term stabilization,
building institutional foundations for a sustainable growth; and reinforcing
the social safety net to protect Indonesia's poor and near poor and to
maintain investments in human capital. A companion operation, the Second
Policy Reform Support loan, is designed to strengthen macroeconomic
stabilization and build a foundation for renewed growth by implementing
actions that reduce corruption and increase the transparency and efficiency of
public sector activities while protecting physical capital. Together, these
operations seek to keep the economy functioning and the poor protected in a
time of political and economic transition and to lay the foundations for a
return to poverty reducing and sustainable growth.
Loan Objectives
3.      The objectives of this loan are three fold:. A) create an adequate
budget for the social sectors and social safety net activities, B) support



the design of appropriate programs within that budget and C) create a system
of monitoring and control of the implementation of a few key safety net
programs to safeguard them from delay and leakage, including increases in
transparency and information sharing with civil society.
Loan Description
4.      The proposed loan will provide balance of payments assistance to the
Republic of Indonesia to support policy reforms in the following areas: (a)
protect crucial social expenditures, (b) improve design of safety net
policies and programs, and (c) safeguard key safety net programs.
4a.     Protecting effective social expenditures by
Maintaining a level and composition of expenditures in the social sectors,
particularly education and health?looking into real development
expenditures?that prevent the crisis from causing long-term damage to
investments in Indonesia's future.
Ensuring proper budgetary and geographical allocations for social safety net
programs, based on cost effectiveness and efficiency, and seek to consolidate
budgets for safety net padat karya activities in an improved financing
mechanism (either through single ministry or other means).
Relieving budgetary pressures on crucial social services by eliminating
expenditures which are not productive nor pro-poor, given the tightening
fiscal situation and need to protect key and effective social expenditures.
4b.     Improving the design of social safety net instruments so
that the poor are more effectively reached by:
Community oversight over the management of funds will be encouraged and
strengthened as part of this process through changes in the information
dissemination and social control mechanisms of the key community fund program.
Improving the structure and criteria of targeting across the range of
programs?particularly of the special market operations for rice in terms of
beneficiaries targeted and amounts received so that the urban poor are more
adequately covered.
The introduction of a separate budget for a Special Initiative for Women's
Unemployment to address the under representation of women in the employment
creation programs.
4.c. Safeguarding key safety net programs
To safeguard key programs, this loan would support the creation of a national
overarching structure including a government coordinating team, a joint
government and civil society effort in a "control team" and a completely
independent monitoring team. This structure has the objective of both
accelerating the implementation of key safety net programs and of heightening
monitoring efforts to ensure programs are implemented as designed, including
fighting corruption within these safety net programs. This unique combination
of government and civil society efforts would oversee the implementation,
together with the line ministries, of a five-fold strategy for each of the key
programs.
The five elements of safeguarding for each program would be internal
monitoring and operational controls including monthly reports to the oversight
group and control team,
-2-



independent verification of program performance and monitoring reports,
information campaigns to reach the grass roots level with information about
program design, and budget and the channel for complaints, a complaint
mechanism that will receive and act on complaints and will be supervised by
the control team; and community and NGO involvement in monitoring.
5.      The Government of Indonesia has designed this program of reforms and is
working with the World Bank, ADB and other donors. This operation has a
particular anti-corruption focus, as the key safety net programs are a
vanguard in introducing information campaigns, community involvement, and
establishing a control team in attacking corruption. The more medium term
elements are addressed in a governance operation under preparation.
Financing
6.      The loan amount will be US$600 million.   The proposed loan will have two
components, a first tranche on effectiveness upon Board approval. The second
tranche will be disbursed and the rest of the funds disbursed against
specific safety net performance conditions. It is anticipated it will be a
fixed rate single currency loan (SCL) in US dollars, with standard
amortization terms, grace period and interest rate for fixed-rate US dollar
SCLs.
Implementation
7.      A recent Presidential decree has created a structure for the
implementation of the safety net programs. Overall responsibility a Steering
Committee chaired by the President and comprised of senior advisors, key
economic Ministers and private sector representatives. Actions on monitoring
and implementation of the safety on a working level are led by a Control Team
headed by Mar'ie Muhammad and assisted by a secretariat from Ministry of
Finance and Bappenas. Within Bappenas a coordination team for the safety nets
will be responsible for SSNAL implementation. The "independent monitoring
team" which is hoped to be a coalition of interested NGOs has yet to be
formed.
Benefits
8.      There are three major benefits to this operation:
The first and most obvious benefit is an improvement in the degree to which
the poor can cope with the ongoing crisis through several mechanisms: less
delay so that the existing programs are moved ahead, less misuse of funds so
that programs work more effectively, and, in the next year's programs, better
targeting and design.
The second is the benefit of the financing, which supports the programs and
provides fiscal stimulus to the economy to accelerate overall economic
recovery, which ultimately is the most effective safety net, without
macroeconomic imbalances.
The third benefit is the innovation of the joint involvement of civil society
and government in monitoring of safety net programs. This would serve as a
vanguard in redefining the relationship between government and civil
society?people are empowered by increased transparency and better checks and
balances. This is essentially moving to national and program wide scale
techniques of information and community involvement that have shown promising
-3 -



results in earlier Bank operations.
Risks
9.      There are two main risks to this operation:
the resources and powers granted to the oversight group or control team are
insufficient to carry out its mandate;
civil society and NGOs are reluctant to participate in the SSN monitoring
program due to a perceived lack of credibility of GOI efforts and
These risks have been mitigated by the loan's two tranche design with
disbursement of the second tranche dependent on program performance and the
consultation and discussions with NGOs and civil society members in the design
of key components.
The first tranche would be released following the creation of the mechanisms
including civil society participation, allocation of budgets, and design of
programs that, together, create the means for a reinforced safety net. The
second tranche would be released principally against evidence that programs
are, in fact, helping the poor. In addition, technical assistance is being
provided bilaterally by donors to facilitate implementation and independent
monitoring of social safety net programs.
During the preparation of this loan there has been extensive dialogue with key
NGOs, opposition groups, and mass based organizations. This dialogue has not
been without controversy and several groups have voiced their opposition.
The biggest risks are beyond this operation, as the Bank's entire assistance
strategy is subject to considerable risk and uncertainty. While indications
of economic stabilization are starting to emerge, much will depend on
continued implementation of the economic reform program and regaining public
confidence through a transparent, credible process of political transition and
developing a sound, modern governance framework. Five major risks could
undermine effectiveness, including uncertainty over the political transition;
possibility of increasing social unrest and violence; continued fragility of
the banking system and pressure for rising government expenditures; political
interference in bank restructuring and debt collection; and limitations in
administrative capacity, coupled with possible opposition from vested
interests.
Environmental Aspects
10.     The program of policy reforms supported by this operations does not have
any anticipated adverse environmental consequences.
Program Objective Categories
11.     The proposed loan contributes to poverty reduction.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 4 -



Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 7, 1999.
- 5 -



