Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4471 IND
Loan Agreement
(Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan)
between the
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 28, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4471 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank): 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 26, 1999 from the 
Borrower describing a program of social safety net actions, objectives and policies 
designed to assist in achieving structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and  
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan 
Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and  
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Rupiah” and “Rp” mean the currency of the Borrower. 
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 1 
and ending March 31. 
(d)
“JPSBK” means Jaring Pengaman Sosial Bidang Kesehatan, the Borrower’s  
health social safety net program. 
(e)
“Key SSN Programs” means JPSBK, OPK, PDM-DKE, PKSPU-CK, and the School 
Scholarship and Block Grant Program. 
(f)
“OPK” means Operasi Pasar Khusus, the Borrower’s program to provide 
regular allocations of rice to poor families at a subsidized price. 
(g)
“PDM-DKE” means the “Program Pemberdayaan Daerah dalam Mengatasi Dampak 
Krisis Ekonomi, the Borrower’s crisis program for the provision of grants to selected 
community groups for (i) creating opportunities for employment and business, and (ii) 
developing social and economic infrastructure. 
(h)
“PKSPU-CK” means Padat Karya Sector Pekerjaan Umum Cipta Karya, the 
Borrower’s labor-intensive work program administered by the Borrower’s  Public Works 
Department Directorate of Human Settlement. 
(i)
“PMTAS” means Program Makanan Tambahan Anak Sekolah, the Borrower’s food 
supplement program for school children. 
(j)
“School Scholarship and Block Grant Program” means the Borrower’s program 
Page  3
to provide (i) cash scholarships to poor students at the primary and secondary school 
level and (ii) grants to primary and secondary schools in poor districts for use in 
covering essential maintenance costs, obtaining essential office and classroom 
supplies, fee relief and teacher transport for KKG (teacher training). 
(k)
“Special Initiative for Women’s Unemployment” means Prakarsa Khusus untuk 
Meningkatkan Peran Serta Wanita (PKM-PSW), the Borrower’s initiative for the promotion 
of women’s employment for the financing of Borrower and civil society proposals. 
(l)
“Tim Pengendali” means the Control Team established under Keppres 190/98.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to six 
hundred million dollars ($600,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank, the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of three hundred million dollars ($ 300,000,000), unless the Bank shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of Program; and (ii) that the actions described in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions 
taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall 
not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equal to one percent (1%) 
of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of 
said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year. Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due, 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
(b)
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely: 
(a)
The Borrower shall have established social safety net expenditure 
geographical allocations, acceptable to the Bank, within the framework of the Fiscal 
Year 1999/2000 fiscal budget approved by Parliament. 
(b)
The Borrower shall have disseminated information, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, on the Key SSN Programs for the Fiscal Year 
1998-1999 and on the budget allocations with respect thereto.
(c)
For each of the Key SSN Programs to be funded under budgetary allocations 
in the Fiscal Year 1999-2000 the Borrower shall (A) have issued orders acceptable to 
the Bank for the following: (i) public information campaigns and information 
Page  5
dissemination procedures; (ii) complaint resolution and disciplinary procedures; (iii) 
reporting and verification arrangements with respect to performance targets; and (iv) 
independent performance monitoring arrangements; and (B) have made adequate budgetary 
provision (as determined on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank ) for the 
carrying out of the activities referred to in (A) of this paragraph (c).
(d)
(i) For each of the Key SSN Programs funded under budgetary allocations 
in the Fiscal Year 1998-1999, the Borrower shall have made available to interested 
groups (as determined on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank) detailed budget 
information thereon; and (ii) for each of the Key SSN Programs to be funded under 
budgetary allocations in the Fiscal Year 1999-2000, the Borrower shall have made 
available to said interested groups adequate budgetary information thereon and the 
Borrower’s orders for the public information campaigns, information dissemination 
procedures and complaint resolution and disciplinary procedures referred to in Section 
5.01 (c) of this Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall have completed a program of  corrective actions, 
acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the implementation of the Key SSN Programs. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
C/O Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Page  6
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Julian Schhweitzer
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728.43                  -
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
Page  7
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. (d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day 
of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable: 
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus 
Page  8
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
Page  9
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
1.
The Borrower shall have disseminated information, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, on the Key SSN Programs for the Fiscal Year 1999 – 2000 and on 
the budget allocations with respect thereto. 
2.
The Borrower shall have established procedures, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, for contracting with non-governmental organizations for the 
monitoring and implementation of each of the Key SSN Programs for the Fiscal Year 
1999-2000. 
3.
For each of the Key SSN Programs and the Special Initiative for Women’s 
Unemployment for the Fiscal Year 1999 – 2000, the Borrower shall have issued 
operational manuals and implementation procedures acceptable to the Bank. For PDM-DKE 
and PKSPU-CK  for the Fiscal Year 1999-2000, the Borrower shall have issued such 
operational manuals and implementation procedures prior to the issuance of any 
spending authorization in respect thereof. 
4.
The Borrower shall have (a) developed a time-bound monitoring, evaluation and 
corrective action program satisfactory to the Bank for the Key SSN Programs and the 
Special Initiative for Women’s Unemployment, and (b) implemented the actions set out 
in three of the monthly schedules established under such action program. 
5.
The Borrower shall have established at each district level a monitoring system 
in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. 
6.
The Borrower shall have (a) issued a report of a study and set of 
recommendations, carried out and distributed in accordance with terms of reference and 
distribution plan acceptable to the Bank, on the options for OPK distribution 
mechanisms to be made available to local governments in Indonesia; and (b) commenced 
implementation of an action program based on said report.
