DocumenIt o
The World I
}<.,8,t t N(, .  8,lrk.,,    Af,    'I'  P;.- (A1i1 
FOR OFFICIAL US       ',A'I'. 1N;:. ' v x>, i.  Y T P 9 H: ,
ReportNo. 9790
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1892-AL)
AUGUST 5, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average               US$1 - DA 4.02
Intervening Year Average            US$1 - DA 5.41
Completion Year Average              US$1 - DA 7.60
GLOSSARY
BNEDER      -     National Bureau for Rural Development Studies
CTTP        _     Technical Quality Control Organization (under MTP)
DIB         -     Basic Infrastructure (transport) Directorate
ENMTP       -     National Public Works Equipment Enterprise
HDM         -     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IRR         -     Internal Rate of Return
MOEq        -     Ministry of Equipment
HOT         -     Ministry of Transport
MTP         -     Ex-Ministry of Public Works
(now under the consolidated Ministry of Equipment)
VOC         -     Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd         -     vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCIL USE^ ONLY
THE WORLD SANKF
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
04k* of DObt(W.Cgfl
Opeaton Evmluatw
August 5, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria Fourth Highway Proiect (Loan 1892-AL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion on Algeria Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1892-AL)" prepared by the
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of th 'z official duties. Its contents may not otherwixe be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 1892.AL)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
PAR  1:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . .  1
I.  PROJECT IDENTITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II.   BACKGROUND:   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
III.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
IV.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Bordj Mira-Kherrata Road and Tunnel (Section RN9)   . .               . .        3
Road Maintenance Programs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Pavement Strengthening . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Maintenance Training    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . .    5
Assistance and Studies    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
VI.  MAJOR PROJECT RESULTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Achievement of Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Achievement of Physical Targets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Costs . . . . . . . . .            . . . . . . . . . . . I . .    7
Disbursements .                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Economic Reevaluation . . . . . ..              . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 
Environmental Impact .... . . . . ..                                            8
VII.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
VIII.   BANK 'S PERFORMANCE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
IX.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     10
X.  RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE BORROWER   . . . . . . . . . .   11
XI.  CONSULTANTS' SERVICES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
XII.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



rABzRL: II  THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    . . . . . . . .  . 13
Composition of the Fourth Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Impleaentation of the Fourth Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Conclusions of the Fourth Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
;   P L.III: STATISTICAL INFORMATIUN
Table  1:  Related Bank Loans
Table  2:  Project Timetable
Table  3:  Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 4:  Project Costs
Table  5:  Project Financing
Table  6:  Economic Impact
Table  7:  Status of Covenants
Table  8:  Missions
Table  9:  Staff Inputs
i   IliX:  STATUS OF BANK LOANS TO T1I TRANSPORT SECTOR
IAl: IBRD 13997R1 - Algeria: Road Network and Highway Project Sites



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 1892-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report describes the preparation, appraisal,
and implementation of the Fourth Highway Project in Algeria, for which Loan 1892-
AL in the amount of USD 110 million was signed on August 1, 1980. The project
became effective on June 16, 1981 and was to have been closed on December 31, 1985.
The project period was characterized by considerable upheaval in the public works
sector in Algeria in the form of administrative decentralization, increase in the
number of Wilayas, and transformation of equipment parks into local enterprises.
The closing date was extended three times, first to December 31, 1986, then to
December 31, 1987, and finally to December 31, 1988.   These extensions were
attributable mainly to difficulties with the design of the Kherrata tunnel complex,
the major civil works component. The loan account remained open until July 26,
1989. Ultimately, USD 94.7 million were disbursed and USD 15.3 million cancelled.
Higher disbursement percentages for civil works provided for in the Amendment to
the Loan Agreement dated December 22, 1988 resulted in unusually high disbursement
activity during the last six months (USD 19 million).
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared
by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department II, and the
Infrastructure Operations Division of the Technical Department, of the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared in Algeria by
the office of the Deputy Minister of Equipment for Public Works.
Preparation of this PCR began during the Bank's final supervision mission
in 1989, which was followed up by a completion mission in March 1990. The Bank's
contribution to the report was prepared on the basis of, inter alia, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and consultation with
implementation agency officials and staff, and former project officers.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC 0F ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 1892-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUAR
Proiect Obiectives and Implementation Experience
1.        The project continuad the integrated approach to road development and
maintenance begun under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1863-AL). In addition,
it was to have helped increase the efficiency of the national construction industry
and to have developed a program to improve access in rural areas. Experience with
the implementation of the different components of the project, as it was appraised
(SAR, para. 3.02), was as follows:
(a)  reconstruction of National Road 9 (NR92  through gorges along a six-km
section between BordJ Kira and Kherrata, which was delayed due to the
complexity of the works affecting both procurement decisions and project
design, which was changed from the construction of a series of bridges
and tunnels within the gorges to the construction of three long tunnels
and a viaduct;
(b) a second tranche of a five-year maintenance program, by force account,
for which a first tranche, involving 16 newly created Wilayas, was
financed under the Third Highway Project. The second tranche, involving
15 Wilayas created in 1975, was completed but with a greatly reduced
program of equipment acquisition. Budgetary allocations were met but
the output reached only 70X of physical targets because the Government
decided to transform the main force-account units into Wilaya-owned and
-operated enterprises. In addition, the 1987 and 1988 Road Maintenance
Programs, which had been appraised under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan
2808-AL), were financed under Loan 1892-AL with a "swap" arrangement
(amendment to the Loan Agreement, dated December 22, 1988);
(c) a second tranche of a long-term Davement strengthening 2rofram, for
which a first tranche was financed under the Third Highway Project.
Implementation did not begin until April 1985 because of unanticipated
difficulties in arranging for the three participating Wilayas to delegate
authority to manage the construction to one of the group. In addition,
three road sections along RN3, RN4, and RN5, which had been appraised
under the Fifth Highway Project, were financed under Loan 1892-AL in
accordance with the above-mentioned "swap" arrangement;
(d) the continuation of a progrAM for training maintenance 2ersonnel, which
was only partially implemented due to a reorganization of the national
vocational training system; and



- ii -
(a) assistance to improve the efficiency of 2ublic cgnntrUStipA,enternris&&
a  to maintain and rehabilitate rural roads.   The former did not
materialize because of tho changing institutional context withLn which
the road Construction companies were operating, the latter because of
an inadequate study on rural road maintenance and rehabilitation.
Results
2.        The estimated project cost was USD 206 million, with about USD 120
million representing foreign exchange. Actual project cost only reached USD 181
million. Comparison of the two figures is meaningless in view of unanticipated
changes both in project scope and in the dinar exchange rate, which declined
steadily from DA 4.0 per USD 1 at appraisal in 1980 to DA 7.6 on final disbursement
in 1989.   Project completion was originally to have taken place in June 1985
followed by a loan closing date set at December 31, 1985. Actual completion of
works originally included in the Fourth Highway project took place in June 1988.
A comparison of appraisal IRRs and reevaluated IRRs is broken down for various
components and subcomponents as follows:
A Rgaisal      Completion
Construction
RN9:  Bordj Mira-Kherrata                    29X            24X
Strengthening
RN2:  Oran-Remchi                            25X            48X
RN3:  Ain Touta-Biskra                       141            511
RN4:  Mouzia-Rouina                          351            361
RNS:  M'Chellah - Bordj Bou Arreridi         181            431
Sustainabilitv
3.        The Kherrata tunnel complex has reduced the  travel distance,  in
particular for heavy trucks, between the port of Bejaia and the hinterland Wilaya
of Setif by about 132 km.  As a result, traffic levels increased from 2,300
vehicles per day in 1987 to about 5,000 in 1989. In the medium term, improved
accessibility is further expected to foster economic development in the area served
by the road. Civil works for pavement strengthening have increased the life of
road sections by 10 years and provided for a 50-year design life for bridges and
tunnels. Algeria's basic institutional, organizational, and technical capacity
to maintain these new assets already exists and is being upgraded under the follow-
on Fifth Highway Project. The country has also gained exposure to modern tunnel
technology through its first large tunnel project, even though the work was
performed and supervised by expatriates.   Moreover,  pavement strengthening
programs, which have been both repetitive and systematic, have led to skill
capitalization within the technical and organizational framework of the project.
Experience in pavement strengthening has, indeed, proved that building and
maintaining a national primary highway network will yield measurable medium- and
long-term benefits.



- iii -
Findings and Leosons
4.        Project experience illustrates the benefits derived from Bank-Borrower
collaboration over a series of lending operations. The Bank assisted in preparing
bidding documents and cl'sely monitored bid evaluation for the Kherrata gorge
tunnel. The program concept adopted for the project also provided for flexibility
in arranging and approving a "swap" in which road sections appraised under the
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2808-AL) were financed under the Fourth. The trading
of components from one project to another holped salvage what, otherwise, would
have been a seriously underdisbursed loan.
5.        The complexity of this project,  changes in project scope, and the
Borrower's lack of understanding of Bank practices led to supervision coefficients
averaging 19 staff-weeks p.a. The principal implementation difficulty centered
on decisions concerning changes to the original project design for the Kherrata
gorge road. It had to be determined, from the standpoint of both engineering and
costing, whether the construction of major tunnels on a new alignment would be a
better alternative than the reconstruction of RN9 along the existing alignment
based on a series of tunnels and bridges. One lesson drawn from this experience
is that the Bank needs to be able to provide adequate advice, within a limited time
frame, to the Borrower on how to manage major engineering changes. The main lesson
is that costly major tunnel projects are never to be undertaken without prior,
thorough geological exploration.
6.        Procurement  issues  have  led  to  major  delays  in  civil  works
implementation. The lesson is that (a) the Bank's procurement guidelines should
be discussed with the Borrower at an early stage of project preparation and (b)
potential procurement issues brought to the Borrower's attention before the project
Is even appraised.   Horeover, the procurement of safety equipment for tunnel
operation had to be deferred to the Fifth Highway Project. The lesson is that
whenever safety equipment is required, the preparation of tender documents should
be timely undertaken during the construction phase to ensure that such equipment
is in place on opening the works to traffic.
7.        The sudden decision of the Government in 1984 to change the status of
maintenance equipment workshops, under force account, to Wilaya contractors
disrupted the road maintenance organization for several years.   The resultant
transfer of equipment ownership halted the procurement of heavy equipment provided
for under the project. The lesson is that changes in organization and policy need
to be phased in over a reasonable implementation period rather than abruptly
imposed. Nonetheless, the Bank and the Borrower showed ingenuity in adapting the
project to these changes.
8.        Whereas most of the project's physical objectives were reached, its
software components (training and studies) were never implemented. At the time
the project was launched, perhaps these components were either too ambitious or
irrelevant. The lesson learned is that the Bank should ensure that the Borrower
is committed to carrying out the entire project.    The relative difficulty in
implementing technical assistance and training programs in Bank-financed highway
projects in Algeria suggests two additional lessons that should be applied to
future operations. First, the Bank should ensure that training components in the



- iv -
projects it finances take road safety into account. Second, Algeria needs to make
better use of external assistance, particularly in developing its own consulting
capabilities.
9.        At the implementation and completion stages, a more detailed single-
volume project document, i.e., traditional SAR, would have saved task managers'
time and improved overall efficiency in supervision and ex-post evaluation
activities. A simplified SAR can be a good idea, if the project file is organized
voll enough to provide easy access to all necessary documentation and data.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALOERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1892-AL)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE



X. PROJECT IDENTITY
Na e           : Fourth Hlighvay Project
Loan Number    : 1892-AL
Loan Amount    : USD 110 million
RVP Unit        : MENA
Country         : Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Sector          : Transportation
Subsector       : Highway
II. BACKGROUND: THE TRASP-ORT SECTOR
2.01      At independence in 1962, Algeria inherlted a diversified and reasonably
well developed transportation system. During the first two development plans
(1970-73 and 1974-77), most investments were directed toward industrial
development, while only modest investments, i.e., 5X to 71 of total public
expenditures, were allocated to transport infrastructure (i.e., roads, railways,
and ports). Increases in economic output, combined with substantial population
growth, led to a buildup in freight traffic at a growth rate of about 12X p.a.
Transportation sector investments were insufficient to keep pace wlth such
growth, which resulted in a substantial backlog in the modernization,
rehabilitation,  and  maintenance  of  basic  transport  infrastructure.    If
progressive deterioration were to corrinue, it would have ultimately posed a
major bottleneck to economic development. Even with a redu * pace in industrial
development, freight traffic was expected to grow into ihe 1980s at about 10l
p.a. This situation led to major investments in the sector during the 1980-84
Development Plan, particularly in road infrastructure. Nevertheless, the rapid
growth in traffic, the large distances involved, and the size of the earlier
backlog required continued effort to modernize and rehabilitate the existing
road network.
2.02      The present transport network includes 44,000 km of primary (national)
and secondary (regional) roads, of which about 801 are paved; 33,000 km of local
(community) roads; 3,700 km of railways; 5,000 km of oil and gas pipelines; six
main ports; and an extensive domestic air network. Road transport carries, by
far, the largest share of total domestic trafflc, excluding crude oil, with over
25 billion ton-km p.a., or about 90X of total freight traffic, and about 13
billlon passenger-km, or 901 of total passenger traffic.
2.03      In the transport sector, Algeria has been granted ten loans from the
Bank, for a total amount of USD 700 million (net of cancellations), to finance
five projects for roads, three for ports, and two for railways (see Annex).
Sector dialogue rests on the achievements of past Bank assistance and on a
Transport Sector Strategy Paper (TSSP), issued in October 1987. Policy issues,



-2-
including road transport regulation and cost recovery from road users, are
currently being addressed by the National Transport Study, which is still in
progress and is being f_nanced under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2808-AL).
2.04      In the highway subsector, Bank loans amount to USD 415 million; four
of these loans have been fully disbursed. During the 1980s, highway investment
was about USD 6.6 million.  Recent Bank-assisted projects have increasingly
stressed the need for redirecting expenditures to road maintenance, strengthening
maintenance capabilities through institution building and training, and
rationalizing maintenance management. Future lending is expected to continue
Bank support to maintenance at the central and local levels, while defining the
relative roles of the various levels of government in the management of the
primary road system.
2.05      During the project period, major developments in Algeria abruptly
transformed the organization and operation of the public works sector.  The
strong movement towards decentralization that began in 1982 had a significant
impact on the project. First, Wilaya boundaries continued to shift as the number
of Wilayas increased from 15 to 31 in 1975 and to 48 in 1984. Second, roles
within the Ministry of Public Works (MTP, reorganized under the Office of the
Deputy Minister of Equipment for Public Works) changed when the equipment parks,
which had been decentralized in 1977, were legally transformed in 1984 from
administrative agencies into Wilaya-owned and -operated enterprises.
2.06      Currently, responsibilities for sector management are scattered among
various levels of Government. At the central level, two Ministries playing a
more direct role in transport matters are the Ministry of Equipment (MOEq) and
the Ministry  of  Transport  (MOT).    MOEq  has  overall  responsibility  for
infrastructure matters apart from the railways, while MOT is entrusted with the
overview of transport operations.   At the local level, the Wilayas and the
Communes play a leading role in their areas of jurisdiction, including the
setting of tariffs for transport services and the creation and ownership of
enterprises.   The relative role of the central vis-&-vis local government
management of infrastructure is experiencing a gradual transformation in the
context of the administrative decentralization reform.   The Wilayas are now
entrusted with the implementation of nationwide programs, including the ones
affecting port infrastructure and the national highway system.  The existing
assets and new investments in port infrastructure are managed by the various port
EPICs (para. 2.07). The ministries, however, cor.tinue to be responsible for
projects of national importance.
2.07      The ongoing autonomization of the public enterprises, within the
framework of the economic reform process, has introduced considerable changes
in the relationships between enterprises and their tutelage. Recent legislation
provides three different models for the public delivery of transport services:
administrative enterprises (Regies), industrial and commercial agencies
(Etablissements Publics Industriels et Commerciaux, EPICS), and economic
enterprises (Entreprises Publics Economiques, EPEs). These types of enterprises
enjoy varying degrees of financial and operational autonomy. The creation of



3-
local EPIC and EPEs seem to be the right approach for ensuring the mobilization
of adequate financial resources in the sector as well as their rational
utilization.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01      The Fourth Highway Project continued the integrated approach to road
development and maintenance begun during the Third Highway Project.  Under the
latter project, the Government had embarked on a rehabilitation and strengthening
program according to a Highway Network Master Plan, providing for the
rehabilitation of about 2,000 km of roads. In addition to rehabilitation and
strengthening, the Fourth Project was to have helped increase the efficiency of
the national construction industry and to have developed a program to increase
access in rural areas. Initially, it included: (a) reconstruction of a seven
-km narrow section of National Road 9 (RN9) between Bordj Mira and Kherrata, on
which landslides had led to frequent closure; (b) a second tranche of a five
-year maintenance program; (c) a second tranche of a long-term pavement
strengthening program; (d) the continuation of a program for training maintenance
personnel; and (e) assistance to improve the efficiency of public construction
enterprises and to maintain and rehabilitate rural roads.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01      The project was identified during a Bank mission in October 1978 and
prepared by MTP based on components seleo.ted from studies financed, in part,
under the First Highway Project (Loan 912-AL). It was appraised in January 1980
and negotiations  took place the following May.   However,  following loan
effectiveness on June 16, 1981, there was a two-year delay before the startup
of the main component on August 4, 1983. This reflected the complexities of the
procurement procedures and the final bid evaluation for the RN9 road, which
resulted in an alternative design being adopted. Only through very skillful
contract management was the final revised cost for the tunnel complex kept within
USD 2 million of appraisal estimates (Part III, Table 4). Initial. revised cost
estimates had been substantially higher (para. 6.03).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Bordi Mira-Kherrata Road and Tunnel (Section RN9)
5.01      Prequ.lification of contractors for the reconstruction of the Bordj
Mira-Kherrata section of RN9 began in November 1979 and ended in February 1980.
Tender started in February 1980 and was extended from June to October 1980 to



- 4 -
allow more time for alternative designs.   Nine bids were received from five
contractors. Bid evaluation did not begin, however, until November 1981, 16
months behind schedule. Government restrictions on hiring foreign consultants
contributed to this delay. When bids were opened, it was concluded that all bids
were technically equivalent and it was impossible to update the bids to conform
with economic conditions that had changed substantially in the past two years.
Moreover, the lowest bidder presented a tunnel solution as the least costly
alternative. The Government, therefore, decided to retender and accept new bids
from the prequalified contractors who had submitted earlier bids, accepting the
tunnel alternative. The Bank insisted that the Government justify this course
of action in the tender evaluation report. Final bid evaluation was completed
in mid-1982. The new bids were evaluated on the basis of technical criteria
related to design, accessibility, location of bridges, construction gradient,
construction period, costs, risks, and quality of the studies. Provision for
bypassing the Bordj Mira village was also required. The same firm was again the
lowest bidder. A special review panel composed of Bank staff and consultants,
which was dispatched to Algeria in December 1982, validated the contract award.
One of the consultants noted, however, that the cost of the proposed solution
would be highly sensitive to the geological conditions encountered.   This
warning, however, was unheeded. The contract was awarded in May 1983, three and
one-half years after prequalification.
5.02      Continuous implementation delays resulted from worsening geological
conditions uncovered during tunnel excavation, culminating in a decision to line
the entire length of the tunnels with concrete. The three tunnels were pierced
in early December 1986. The project with all finishing works (e.g., ventilation,
lighting) was completed in mid-1988.   An Amendment to the Loan Agreement was
signed on December 22, 1988 to permit the completion of localized improvements
along RN9 needed to bring the entire road section up to par.   Because of major
procurement-related delays, contract award and execution of works had to be
deferred to the Fifth Highway Project.
Road Maintenance Programs
5.03      The First Highway Project planned and the Third Highway Project
supported the development of a force account road maintenance organization for
Algerian highways.   It was built around an equipment service that owned,
operated, and maintained the necessary equipment, which was then "rented" to the
Wilaya maintenance district organizations (financed from the maintenance budget).
The need of such an organization stemmed from an accumulated need for road
maintenance, which had been neglected during the struggle for independence and
the lack of contractor capability and interest for executing this type of work.
Local contractors were being formed at the time in joint-venture with foreign
firms that were engaged in larger road improvement and new road construction
projects.
5.04      The Fourth Highway Project would build on the progress achieved to
date. A first tranche of a five-year road maintenance program, by force account,
involving 16 newly created Wilayas, had been financed under the Third Highway
Project. The second tranche, financed under the Fourth Project, contemplated
providing equipment not only for the equipment parks of another 15 new Wilayas,



-5-
but also brigades to crush rock and mix asphalt for strengthening and
rehabilitation works on paved roads.   The latest increase in the number of
Wilayas, as well as in Wilaya autonomy, was matched with an abrupt increase, in
January 1984, in the number of road maintenance organizations together with the
dismantling of four regional workshops originally formed for major repairs in
support of the Wilaya workshops.
5.05      It had been envisaged initially that large-scale equipment and spare
parts procurement would be managed by MTP equipment parks and administrative
subdivisions. However, the decentralization of road maintenance on a national
scale and the transfer of equipment to Wilaya enterprises complicated equipment
procurement and subsequent contracting mechanisms for the maintenance equipment
provided for in the Bank loan,  As a result, only USD 17.5 million of USD 45.4
million estimated at appraisal was spent on equipment.
5.06      Also included in the Fourth Project were the 1987 and 1988 Road
Maintenance Programs.   These had been appraised under the Fifth Project but
financed from the proceeds of Loan 1892-AL in accordance with a "swap"
arrangement provided for in an amendment to the Loan Agreement, dated December
22, 1988. Financing was provided for periodic maintenance, mainly steel coating,
which was tendered under ICB and in which the newly created Wilaya enterprises
participated along with other public works contractors.
Pavement Strengthening
5.07      The feasibility study of the Oran-Remchi road section (106 km) was
completed in October 1982, tender began two months later, and bid evaluation was
completed in August 1983. However, implementation did not begin until April
1985. This considerable delay was the result of unanticipated difficulties in
arranging for the three participating Wilayas to delegate authority to manage
the construction to one of the group. This situation was exacerbated by local
government reorganization in 1984, i.e., increase in the number of Wilayas from
31 to 48. Pavement strengthening of the Oran-Remchi road was completed in June
1988. In addition, three road sections along RN3, RN4, and RN5, which had been
appraised under the Fifth Highway Project, were financed with proceeds from Loan
1892-AL in accordance with the afore-mentioned "swap" arrangement.
Maintenance Training
5.08      The training program was implemented in three phases.   The first
consisted of continued financing of the training activities that had begun under
the Third Highway Project; the second one, an assessment of training needs
arising from equipment utilization in the westernmost Wilayas; and the third one,
retraining of workshop personnel in public road construction enterprises, to be
delivered, with the assistance of consultants, by the Bethouia training center.
The first two phases were successfully completed and final reports submitted to
the Bank. The third phase lasted from mid-1985 to early 1986, when the Bethouia
training center, which was in poor condition, was closed. A new training center
at Batna, which was to have been financed under the project, was never opened
since the construction brigades, the envisaged target audience, were never formed
and major changes occurred within the national vocational training organization,



including the establishment of the Ministry of Vocational Training. The Bank
did not object to eliminating the remainder of the third phase from the project,
particularly since a training component covering the planning, management, and
control of contracted road maintenance works would be included in the then-
proposed Fifth Highway Project.
Assistance and Studies
5.09      Technical  assistance  aimed at  strengthening public  construction
enterprises was never implemented. The rapidly changing institutional context
within which the road construction companies in Algeria (paras. 2.06-2.07) were
operating made it difficult for MTP to commit itself to this project component.
The study on rural road maintenance was completed in mid-1985 but failed to
achieve the intended objectives. The study was supposed to have produced an
overall methodology for the planning of rural road improvements and maintenance
to be applied by Wilaya officials. Instead of hiring consultants as planned,
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) assigned the study to the National Bureau for
Rural Development Studies (BNEDER). Two agricultural engineers prepared a study
modelled on road improvement feasibility studies (e.g., traffic counts,
agricultural production) for two pilot districts, each within different Wilayas,
to justify paving some road sections in those districts.   This was not a
replicable procedure that could be put into general use throughout the country.
Owing to a decision taken in HOA, the study was never released, even at the
insistence of Bank supervision missions. It should be noted that the study was
financed entirely by the Government.
VI. NAJOR PROJECT RESULTS
Achievement of Project Obiectives
6.01      Investments  under  the project  supported  the  objectives  of  the
Government's draft Five-Year Plan (1980-84). The project contributed especially
to the development of the country's economic infrastructure with continued
emphasis on regional development and integration, particularly through the
removal of bottlenecks in the highway network. As such, the project followed
the pattern set by the Second and Third Highway Projects, which included
improvements to critical sections of the primary network; namely, RN2 between
Boudouaou and Lakdaria and RN1 between La Chiffa and Berrouaghia. The objectives
of two major components, the RN9/Kherrata Tunnel and the strengthening of heavily
trafficked roads, were achieved with success, introducing both tunnel and
pavement strengthening methodologies. In fact, several pavement strengthening
design methods were introduced by different consultants creating a problem that
had to be resolved at the time of preparation of the Fifth Highway Project.
The objectives of another important component, the two-year tranche of a five-
year maintenance program by force account, were not fully accomplished since
acquisition of maintenance equipment was curtailed in the face of organizational
and administrative changes. However, this was replaced by a system of contract
maintenance which was provided under the Fifth Highway Project and also partly



7-
under the Fourth Project as part of the "swap' arriangement. Technical assistance
objectives, except for training, were essentially abandoned due to lack of
commitment.
Achievement of Physical Targets
6.02      The project's primary physical targets centered on tunne, construction.
These were achieved, but with considerable delay, in the face of difficult
technical and geological conditions and procurement difficulties.
Proje2ct C9=
6.03      The estimated project cost was USD 206 million, with about USD 120
million representing foreign exchange. Actual project cost only reached USD 181
million. Comparison of the two figures is meaningless in view of unanticipated
changes both in project scope and in the dinar exchange rate, which declined
steadily from DA 4.0 per USD 1 at appraisal in 1980 to DA 7.6 on final
disbursement in 1989.   The major component, which was completely redesigned
turned out to cost only about 2% more (USD 2.0 million) than original estimates.
The contractor was claiming a revised cost estimate of about USD 138 million
equivalent because of the unanticipated poor geological conditions, representing
a 22% increase over appraisal figures. However, Algerian officials were aware
of the possibility of unbalanced bids; e.g., high unit prices on poor rock and
low unit prices on good rock, when the latter was expected to be the norm. They
skillfully managed the negotiations and succeeded in keeping the final cost down
at USD 115 million.
Disbursements
6.04      Disbursement began two years behind schedule due to late project
startup affecting all major components.   Once disbursement got underway,
cumulative disbursements remained significantly below original estimates and the
relevant country and sector profile. Even though disbursements never caught up,
they did maintain a satisfactory pace over a six-year period.
Economic Reevaluation
6.05      Kherrata Tunnel.  The advent of the tunnel reduced travel distances
for truck traffic between the port of Bejaia and the Wilaya of Setif in the
hinterland by 132 km. The economic benefit of this solution can be measured
through lower vehicle operating costs for diverted and newly generated traffic
and, although to a much lesser degree, lower surface maintenance costs on the
detour  route  also  yielded  economic  benefits.    In  addition,  the  tunnel
significantly reduced the prospect of roadway closure along the Kherrata gorges
due to landslides and cave-ins. Prior to the opening of the tunnel, traffic in
the corridor was increasing at a pace of 5% p.a. Now that the tunnel has opened,
it has increased more than twofold, from 2,300 to 5,000 vehicles per day (vpd).
A conservative economic reevaluation of this component showed an IRR of 24%,
confirming the economic viability of the investment, which was   originally



- 8 -
estimated to yield an IRR of 2921.   The analysis was based on the assumption
that traffic along RN9 between Setif and Souk el Tenine would continue to
increase at 5X p.a. (in line with forecast GDP growth) due to stepped-up economic
activity in the hinterland made possible by the tunnel.
6.06      pavement Strenathening.  The analysis was performed by the staff of
the Technical Quality Control Organization (CITP), under the auspices of MTP,
according to a methodology similar to the HDM, which the Bank intreduced in
Algeria in the mid-1980s. It showed acceptable results, with IRRs ranging from
20X to 432 (Part III, Table 6). In most cases, reevaluated IRRs were more than
double the original estimates, which can be attributed to a combination of
factors such as actual costs below appraisal estimates and higher traffic volumes
than projected for the first year following completion of works.
6.07      Road Maintenance.   Investment in road maintenance programs, less
equipment, represented only 8X of the total Bank financing. The return on the
original maintenance program, in which the Bank financed equipment and training,
could not be reevaluated as it was not implemented as envisaged due to the
transfer of maintenance equipment and responsibility to the Wilaya enterprises.
However, appraisal of maintenance programs for two pilot Wilayas in 1986 in
connection with the Fifth Highway Project revealed extremely high rates of return
for this type of investment; e.g., 3232 and 104X for the best- and worst-case
maintenance policy scenarios in the Wilaya of BouLra. For that reason, it was
deemed unnecessary to reevaluate formally the two pilot Wilaya maintenance
programs (appraised under the Fifth Highway Project and financed under the Fourth
through the swap arrangement). Based on Bank expArience with road maintenance
components, even with stagnating traffic, the rate of return for Bouira would
still be in the order of 752.
Environmental Im2act
6.08      Civil works components strengthened key sections of the country's
primary road network and bolstered regional development.  There was no known
adverse environmental impact in terms of land use, expropriation, resettlement,
or any other ecological or sociological aspect.   However, the tunnel's steep
gradient (62) has left some unresolved safety issues, particularly concerning
the downhill movement of heavy trucks.   Bank missions repeatedly drew the
attention of Bejaia Wilaya authorities to this issue. A serious accident, which
took place soon after the opening of the tunnel in 1989, prompted the Governor
of Bejaia to block temporarily the entry of heavy vehicles at the upper portal
of the tunnel, requiring them to use the old road within the Kherrata gorge and
permitting heavy trucks to proceed through the tunnel in an uphill movement only.
Progressive relaxation of this rule is taking place as more safety equipment,
being procured under the Fifth Highway Project, is installed.
Details of reevaluated cost and benefit streams, together with updated
vehicle operating costs, as well as all relevant assumptions relating
to the analysis, are available in the Project File.



-9-
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01      The Kherrata tunnel complex has reduced the travel distance,  in
particular, for heavy trucks between the port of Bejaia and the Wilaya of Setif
in the hinterland by about 132 km. Diverted and newly generated traffic led to
increased overall traffic counts from 2,300 vehicles per day in 1987 to about
5,000 in 1989.   Improved accessibility is expected to open the region up to
greater economic development.    Civil works for pavement strengthening have
increased the life of road sections from 10 to 20 years and that of bridges and
tunnels to 50 years.   Algeria's basic  institutional,  organizational,  and
technical capacity to maintain these new assets already exists and is being
upgraded under the follow-on Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2808-AL). The country
has also gained some exposure to modern tunnel technology through its first large
tunnel project, even though works were supervised and executed by expatriates.
Moreover, pavement strengthening programs, which have been both repetitive and
systematic, have led to skill capitalization within the technical and
organizational framework of the project. Experience in pavement strengthening
has, indeed, proved that building and maintaining a national primary highway
network will yield measurable medium- and long-term benefits.
VIII. BANK 'S PERFORMANCE
8.01      The Bank's contribution to the project was significant.  Bank staff
helped forge a close working relationship, based on mutual confidence, with the
Algerian authorities.   This was accomplished under the strain of difficult
technical conditions. Bank staff also assisted in identifying the two major
project components: the Kherrata tunnel and the strengthening of heavily
trafficked roads, both of which show high economic returns and long-term results.
However, important lessons can be drawn from the following shortcomings:
-    The Bank needs to respond more quickly to major and unexpected changes
that occur in the country or in the project context. In effect, the
Borrower needs more assistance than the Bank provided in terms of
resolving issues arising from the implementation of particular project
components, such as the acquisition of mainterance equipment.
*   The argument for adopting the tunnel solution was that the five short
tunnels in the original design would run through highly fractured
surface rock, which implied costly construction requiring fully
reinforced concrete lining as well as difficult foundation conditions
for the viaducts. The contractor argued that by going deeper into the
mountains, the solid rock found there would obviate the need for most
of the concrete lining. The contractor's original cost estimate was
based on this prezuise. The quoted price for fractured rock excavation
was about twice that for solid rock excavation.   However, in the
contract documents, the contractor was given an unusual exclusion
allowing for cost renegotiation for major quantitative changes in rock



- 10 -
excavation, concrete lining, and steel reinforcements for concrete
linings.   The tunnels were eventually constructed through mainly
fractured rock, using a new Austrian method, at considerably incroased
cost. The Bank subsequently provided support to MTP in renegotiations
with the contractor over the latter's claims regarding the unexpected
geological conditions. The lesson is that costly major tunnel projects
are never to be undertaken without prior, thorough geological
exploration.
-   On relieving the Kherrata Gorge bottleneck, a complete solution for
the full length of RN9 was postponed and later included in the Fifth
Highway Project. The Bank should have insisted that the full project
be studied before undertaking a costly improvement of just one section
of the RN9 route.
-   The training component was only partially implemented.  Not only was
its design too complex and costly, but urgent training needs,
particularly those concerned with highway safety, were entirely
overlooked. The Borrower did not share all of the objectives of the
training program, which explains the lack of commitment to it. In the
future, the Bank should insist that major contracts for training,
studies, and other technical assistance be awarded prior to Board
presentation.
=   During project preparation,  the Bank should seek assurances that
decentralized implementation units are adequately staffed and trained
to carry out the works for which they are responsible.
=    Safety equipment for tunnel operation had to be  Eferred to the Fifth
Highway. Whenever safety equipment is ultimately required, tender
documents should be timely prepared during the construction phase to
ensure that such equipment is in place on opening the works to traffic.
IX. BORROVER'S PERFORMANCE
9.01      MTP, the Wilaya of Bejaia, and the Wilaya-owned and  -operated
enterprises responsible for pavement strengthening and periodic maintenance,
faced a difficult and changing environment. They succeeded in implementing an
infrastructure program that was technically sophisticated and new for Algeria.
The final cost of the fully concrete-lined tunnel was sharply reduced as the
result of skillful contract management. This accomplishment would have been
impossible without the singular dedication of MTP engineering staff. At the same
time, the MTP complement needs to be reinforced with more engineers to improve
the overall coordination of the decentralized units responsible for building and
maintaining primary  road network.    Notably,  engineer  trainees  assigned,
contractually, to the tunnel project were neither suitably qualified nor
motivated for such tasks as geotechnical monitoring.   An excellent training
opportunity under the Fourth Highway Project was missed.



v 11 -
9.02      Immediately on closing the central equipment accounts, MTP issued a
directive cransferring the equipment services to the Wilaya governments (but not
to the Wilaya works organizations) to be reconstituted as contractors. MTP did
not, however, issue any further instructions or guidelines as to how this would
be accomplished but, instead, allewed works maintenance organizations to act on
their own.   In most cases, they negotiated favorable contracts (20X to 30Z
lower), while in other cases, they were charged higher rental rates. The other
result in the change in equipment ownership was a halt to the procurement of
heavy equipment provided under the project.
9.03      Although technical assistance for the construction of the Kherrata
tunnel was highly successful, Algeria seldom uses external assistance to its
full potential. This problem is probably due to inexperience as the country was
not opened to foreign competition until only recently.
9.04      Delays in decision making are due not only to the change in the
institutional  setup  (at the ministerial  and Wilaya  levels)  but also to
communication difficulties, engineers' lack of background in modern management
techniques, and a general lack of motivation. Experience in implementing this
project demonstrates that changes in organization and policy, such as the
transfer of equipment services to the Wilaya governments, need to be phased in
over a reasonable implementation period rather than abruptly imposed. A clear
delineation of the responsibilities of officials at various levels following
organizational changes is also needed to streamline the decision-making process.
Non-formal specialized training of project engineers could militate against
delays in technical and contractual decision making. All engineers from the
ministerial level down to each work site need to be made aware of the financial
and economic costs incurred by each month's delay in project implementation.
The systematic posting and updating of an operational time chart would help
prevent procurement delays (e.g., the delivery of safety equipment for the
tunnels two years after t'ney are opened to traffic).  The transportation of
Government engineers and other problems related to the work site are being
addressed through supervision of the Fifth Highway Project.
X. RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE BORROWER
10.01     Relations between the Bank and MTP were positive as well as dynamic,
whereas the level of commitment to the project by the Wilaya authorities was
comparatively lower. If cooperation between the Wilayas implementing pavement
strengthening of the Bejaia-Setif and Oran-Remchi road sections had been
stronger, it would have enhanced the concerted effort to build and maintain a
primary network of national roads. In the future, the Bank and the Borrower
need to cooperate more closely, through project design and implementation, in
seeking ways to provide the requisite incentive and coordination framework.



12 -
XI. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
11.01     The  consultants  in  charge  of  supervising  the  Kherrata  tunnel
construction were competent and performed well despite shortcomings, such as:
(a) excessive overtime due to the renegotiation of contract extension, contractor
appraisal for the new project design, and general understaffing; and (b)
difficulties with the contract itself, such as the absence of price revision to
compensate for the rise in cost of living and failure to reimburse short-term
consultants.
XII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.01     The project appraisal report was shortened and simplified in a pilot
effort to facilitate its review by Bank management. A final opinion, however,
as to the efficiency of tnis approach has never been made known officially. At
the implementation and completion stages, it is believed that a more detailed
single-volume project document, i.e., traditional SAR, would have saved task
managers' time and improved overall efficiency in supervision and ex-post
evaluation activities.   It was often necessary to peruse lengthy reports and
feasibility studies in the Project File in search of data normally summarized
in the Annexes to the SAR.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1892-AL)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 14 -
PART II: THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Composition of the Fourth Proiect
1.        The Fourth Highway Project was essentially a continuation of the
accomplishments of the Third Highway Project. It consisted of:
(a) the construction of a third north-south link through the coastal
mountain gorge, the first two (Lakhdaria and La Chiffa gorges) having
been completed under the previous two loans (Second and Third
Projects);
(b) pavement strengthening of the Oran-Remchi road section, similar to the
works on the Constantine-Batna highway financed under the Third Loan,
and on which present traffic exceeds 5,000 vpd; and
(c) reinforcement of the Wilaya equipment parks in charge of the road
maintenance. It is necessary to point out that the Fourth Project was
designed to meet the objective begun under the Third Project, which
was to provide all Wilaya directorates with complete pavement
strengthening and surface dressing capability, including a crushing
station.
2.        In the course of implementing the Fourth Project, a new organizational
setup was introduced to replace road maintenance work being carried out by force
account and to increase the number of Wilaya enterprises from 31 to 48. This
change disrupted procurement of the third tranche of maintenance equipment.
Implementation of the Fourth Project
3.        The three main components were implemented as follows;
(a)    The Gorges of Kherrata Works.   The initial study for the tunnel
alternative proposed by the contractor was overly optimistic and
considered the rock bed to be sound on the entire distance with a
proportion exceeding 70X. But this turned out to be totally different.
Most of the rock was, in fact, fractured and required complete lining.
Lengthy technical discussions took place with the contractor, in
particular concerning the unit prices for rock removal and concrete,
which would be needed in much greater quantity. Technical assistance
for construction supervision was very helpful to the administration.
The tunnels and the viaduct have now been completed. The results of
these works surfaced very quickly as the traffic counts clearly show.
In 1989, the traffic through the tunnels surpassed 5,000 vpd, which
was higher than anticipated.   The tunnels were built to provide
permanent passage and to avoid frequent road closure caused by falling
rocks that required detours of over 100 km. The supervision and the
specific management of the tunnels brought some results earlier than



a 15 -
anticipated. The authorities have been made aware of this and some
directives have been issued to maintain and manage these works
adequately. The purchase of security and management equipment was thus
provided for by the Fifth Highway Project. The remainlng problem is
the link between Souk El Tenine and Bordj Mira for which the pavement
strengthening works were ineffectual. The works consist of preserving
the existing road without any modernization or widening. The economic
viability of this undertaking is limited by its difficult site. The
enterprises had considerable difficulty working while traffic was
flowing. If the World Bank had exerted more pressure, the preparatory
studies of the Kherrata gorge section would have been more thorough
and would have provided a more coherent design and step-by-step
implementation plan.
(b) strengthening works of the Oran-Remchi section. This was carried out
to the satisfaction of all parties concerned; and
(c)  the acquisition of eauiDment for the Wilaya directorates in charge of
road maintenance works carried out by force account.  As mentioned
above, this operation had to be interrupted due to institutional and
administrative reorganization and decentralization. The importance
of providing new equipment within the scope of the Fourth Project seems
to have influenced the decision to transform the equipment parks under
the authority of the Wilaya road maintenance enterprises. The balance
of the Fourth Loan was used to financ. part of the pavement
strengthening works initially envisaged under the Fifth Highway
Project, which was fully consistent with the overall pavement
strengthening and road maintenance objectives of the Fourth Project.
Conclusions of the Fourth Project
4.        The main objectives of the project were reached except for the
acquisition of road maintenance equipment. It was implemented over an eight-
year period. This was nearly twice the originally planned four and one-half
years. The main reasons for implementation delays were:
(a) the difficulty in comparing technical and economical deviations in
requests from the enterprises (the Ministry was to have sought
specialized technical assistance for this);
(b) cumbersome administrative procedures affecting procurement during the
first half of the decade 1980-1989; and
(c) the potential for geological hazards affecting works on the Kherrata
gorges, as confirmed by geological studies.   Investigative studies
were costly and their reliability questionable.



- 16 -
Comnts
The delay between the loan effectiveness date (June 16, 1981) and
the startup of the civil works (April 8, 1983) was over two years.
Therefore, the closing date had to be postponed to June 30, 1986.
The unforeseen geological conditions required generalized concrete
lining of the tunnels, which led to implementation delays. Therefore,
the closing date had to be postponed finally to June 30, 1988.
The partial acquisition of equipment planned for the Wilaya
directorates in charge of highway maintenance and the depreciation of
the dinar in relation to the US dollar left a significant undisbursed
balance in the loan account.   To take advantage of this, it was
necessary to finance part of the maintenance and strengthening works
initially envisaged under the Fifth Project and extend the closing date
for a third time to June 30, 1989.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1892-AL)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



- 18 -
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Number
and Title                         Purpose                          FY       Status
Loan 912-AL                Rehabilitation works for roads;           73      Completed;
First Highway Project       road maintenance equipment; and                  PPAR # 2882
consultant services for project,                  3/11/80
preparation, planning, and
management.
Loan 1407-AL               Reconstruction of a key section of        77      Completed;
Second Highway Project      the primary road network; technical              PCR # 5652
assistance for construction and                   5/16/85
planning; and training of middle
management staff.
Loan 1683-AL               Two-year slice of a five-year road        79      Completed;
Third Highway Project      maintenance program; two-year                     PCR # 7043
tranche of a rood pavement                        12/14/87
rehabilitation program; construction
works for improving NR1 section (La
Chiffa-Berrouaghia); training for
road maintenance; and technical
assistance for improving MTP's
planning capability.
Loan 2808-AL                Strengthening of primary roads;          87      Ongoing
Fifth Highway Project      road maintenance works; technical
assistance to CTTP for road data
collection, maintenance planning
and control, pavement reinforcement
planning, design, and contract
management, and training at the
Wi.aya level; management training for
MTP staff; research on the use of
local building materials; training
for MOT in road transport management
and road safety; preparation of
intermodal National Transport
Study; and detailed engineering
for railroad track engineering.



- 19 -
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Planned        Revised          Actual
Identification                                                  10/78
Preparation Beginning                           11/78           11/78
Preparation End                  3/80           12/80           12/80
Appraisal Mission                3/80            1/80            1/80
Loan Negotiations                5/80
Board Approval                   9/80            6/80           7/08/80
Loan Signature                  8/01/80                         8/01/80
Loan Effectiveness             12/01/80         2/28/81         6/16/81
5/29/81
Loan Closing                   12/31/85        12/31/86        12/31/88
12/31/87
12/31/88
Project Completion               6/85            9/86
12/86
12/85
6/86
12/86
8/87
12/87
6/88          12/88



- 20 -
Table 3: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Quaster               Original          Profile           Aclual
(USD millions)
EYfl
Sep. 1980
Dec. 1980
Mar.1981               10.00
Jun. 1981              25.00
mFm
Sep. 1981              28.00
Dec. 1981              32.00              1.42
Mar.1982               36.00              2.84
Jun. 1982              40.00              6.16
FY8
Sep. 1982              45.00              9.47
Dec. 1982              50.00             13.26
Mar. 1983              55.00             17.05              .01
Jun. 1983              60.00             24.63              .01
EY84
Sep. 1983              66.00             32.21              7.27
Dec. 1983              72.00             35.99             8.05
Mar. 1984              78.00             39.78              8.25
Jun. 1984              85.00             45.47             15.45
Efli
Sep. 1984              92.00             51.15            20.44
Dec. 1984              98.00             56.83            23.30
Mar. 1985             104.00             62.52            27.12
Jun. 1985             110.00             68.20             32.17
PY88
Sep. 1985                                73.88            37.54
Dec. 1985                                77.67            37.74
Mar. 1986                                81.46            51.79
Jun. 1986                                84.30             52.47
FY87
Sep. 1986                                87.14            56.86
Dec. 1986                                89.99            64.03
Mar.1987                                 92.83            66.17
Jun. 1987                                93.77             66.50
FY88
Sep. 1987                                94.72             67.69
Dec. 1987                                                  71.43
Mar. 1988                                                  74.10
Jun. 1988                                                  74.10
Sep. 1988                                                  75.70
Dec. 1988                                                  76.16
Mar. 1989                                                  76.65
Jun. 1989                                                  78.67
FS    8
Sep. ISM                                                   94.72



- 21 -
Table 4: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimates                    Actual
Local                          Local
Item                         Costs    F.E.       Total       Costs    F.E.        Total   Variation
Hib_wa_ Maintenance
Original Highway IV
Equipment                        7.7       37.7       45.4       3.5       14.0       17.5    -27.9 38X
Training                         0.5        1.7        2.2       0.4        1.8        1.2      -1.0 551
With Highway V Swap
(1987-88 Program)               6.8         6.8        1.2
Subtotal              8.2        39.4      47.6       10.7       21.5      32.2    -15.4 68Z
Pavement Strengthenins
Original Highway IV                21.2      22.9       44.1       11.8       9.6       21.4    -22.7 49X
With Highway V Swap                                      6.4        6.4      12.7
Subtotal              21.2       22.9      44.1       18.2       16.0      34.1    -10.0 77X
RN9/Tunnel Construction
Civil Works                        53.7      55.3       109.0      57.5      47.1       104.6   -4.4  961
Construction
Supervision                         2.7       1.3         4.0       3.1       7.3        10.4    6.4 261X
Subtotal              56.4       56.6      113.0      60.6      54.4       115.0    2.0 1021
Assistance and Studies
Strengthening of
public enterprises              0.4       1.0         1.4
Preparation of rural
roads project                  0.2        0.2
Subtotal               0.4        1.2        1.6
TOTAL                         86.2       120.1      206.3     89.5       91.8       181.3   25.0  881



- 22 -
Table 5: Project Financing
Original
Planned          Actual
Bank Borrower    Bank  Borrower
(USD million)
Highway Maintenance
Original Highway IV
Equipment                        35.7    7.7      14.0     3.5
Training                          0.3    1.9       0.8     0.4
With Highway V Swap                                  6.8     6.8
(1987-88 Program)
Pavement Str=ngthenLig
Original Highway IV              19.9   24.2       9.6    11.8
With Highway V Swap                -      -        6.4      6.4
Tunnel Construction
Civil Works                     48.1   60.9      49.1    55.4
Construction Supv.               2.8    1.2       8.1     2.3
Assistance and Studies
Strengthening of
public enterprises              1.4    0.4        -
Preparation of rural
roads project                   0.1    0.1        -        -
TOTAL                         110.0   96.3      94.7    86.6



* 23 -
Table 6: Economic Imgaet
Original
Extimate     Reevaluated
Economic Rate of Return:
RN9:  Bordj Mira-Khorrata                           29X             24X
Project Life                                50 years          50 years
,Strenntbhan
Economic Rate of Return:
RN2:  Oran-Remchi                                   25Z             48Z
RN3:  Ain Touta-Biskra                              14X             511
RN4:  Mouzia-Rouina                                 35             361
RN5:  N'Chellah - Bordj Bou Arreridi                181             43X
Project Life                                20 years          20 years



- 24 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Loan
Agreemnt
Reference                 Description                                    Status
LA 3.0           Borrower to eWloy consultants and             For Part C of the project, consultants wre employed for
experts in carrying out Parts C, D and       training at the Bethoufa training center. The Batna
E of the Project.                            training center was never opd due to changes in the
national vocation training organization nd capability.
This change In the project was agreed to by the Ban. The
last phase of training by the Cethoufa center included
satellite training of road contractors. The Bethouia center
was closed in early 1986. two years after the DIB equipment
parks had been converted into Wilaya-owmed road works
enterprises (contracting  firm).   The new Ministry of
Vocational Training, with Bank financial assistance under
the Fifth Education Project (Loan 1803-AL), crested an
Enterprise Career Developnent nd Training Inctitute (INDEFE)
to assist enterprises In implementing their training plans.
For Part D of the Project, consultants, satisfactory to the
lank were employed.
For Part E of the project, the Ministry of Agriculture did
not enploy consultants and assigned the study to the National
Bureau for Rural Development Studies (BNEDER). The resulting
study did not achIeve its Intended objectives and was never
released.
LA 3.03          Carry out Parts A and C of the Project       This covenant was comnplied with for the 1982-83 time slice
in accordance with annual programs           of the maintenance program, which benefitted from
forth detailed physical targets and          financing under Part A of the Project. During the hiatus
budgets appropriations and Implementing      caused by converting equipment parks to enterprises nd
related equipment renewal activities,        creating 17 new lWIlayas, maintenance and training planning
progratming deteriorated (1984-86). The problem of restoring
adequate programming of maintenance work by contract is an
important objective of the Fifth Highway Project and mdel
annual program were prepared during project preparation,
for seven pilot Wilayas for 198?.
LA 3.04          Construct Part D of the Project to           Compliedwithalthoughthedesignstandardsusedatapprafsal
satisfactory to the Bank.                    were drastically changed, which is reflected in the amended
project description.



- 25 -
Page 2 of 2
Table 7: SatAus of Covenants (continued)
Loan
Agreoaent
Reference           Description                                Status
LA 3.05      Carry out Part B of the Project In  Conptled with.
accordance with design standards,
methodology, criteria, and bid
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
LA 3.06      Borrower to ensure that dimensions  Complied with by means of considerable regulation of the
and axle loads of vehicles are    entire road transport industry.
consistent with the road design
stndWrds.
ComDleMentary notes
Timely progress reporting to the Bank required under Section 3.07 did not
evolve satisfactorily due to the decentralizatior, of project contract supervision to
the Wilayas.   This was not a major problem due to the frequency of missions for
preparation of the Fifth Highway Project, which permitted concurrent progress
monitoring. The matter was addressed under the Fifth Project.
Procurement procedures for ICB (Schedule 4) became an area of general
disagreement between the Government and the Bank due to differences between Algerian
regulations and Bank guidelines. In particular, the lack of public bid openings and
substantial delays occasioned by negotiations with apparent low bidders were major
issues. These were resolved on a country basis for all future Bank-financed projects.



26  -
Page 1 of 2
Table 8: Missions
Stage of              Mnth/           No. of      Days In        Speciolizatfona                   mature of
Project Cycle         Year            Staff        Fleld         Represented         Ratings       Problems
Through Appraisal       9/78            2           21           Highway Enginer
4/79            2            7           Highway Engineer
Econmist
9/79            4           21           Highway Engineer
Economist
Appraisal through       1/80            4           14           Highway Engineer
Board approval                                                   Economist
Loan Officer
Supervision            10/80            2           12           Highway Engineer       1
Economist
3/81             2           14          Highway Engineer       2          Technical
Economist
6/81            2           18          Highway Engineer       2          Nangerial
Economist                         Technical
11/81            1          21           Highway Engineer       2          Managerial
Technical
3/82            1           18          Highway Engineer       2           anagerial
Technical
6/82            3           10          Highway Engineer       2          Managerial
Economist                         Technical
10/82           2           12           Highway Engineer       2          Maungerial
Ecoranist                         Technical
12/82           4           21           Highway Engineer       I          Technical
Economist
7/83            2          21           Highway Engineer       1
Financial Analyst
11/83            4          25           Highway Engineer       1
Economist
Training Specialist
12/84            4          19           Highway Engineer       1
Econmnist
Tunnl Expert
7/85            4           18          Highway Engineer       2          Technical
Econroist                         Financial
Tutnel Expert
3/86            3           9           Highway Engineer       2          Technical
Economist                        Financial
5/86            3           18          Highway Engineer       2          Technical
Economist                         Financial



27  -
Page 2 of 2
Table 8: M,ssions (continued)
Stage of            Wanth/           No. of     Days in     Specializations                        mature of
Project Cycle       Yer              Staff      Field        Represented               Ratings      Problm_
6/86             2          16         Highway Engineor            2         Technical
Economist                             Finncial
9/86             4         21          Highway Engineor            2         Technical
Economist                             Financial
12/86             2          7          Highway Engineer            2         Tochnical
Financial
7/87             1          7          Highway Engineer            2         Develop ent Iqact
10/87             2         18          Highway Engineer            2         Development lapact
Training Specialist
3/88             2         21          Highway Engineer            2         Developnent Iqpact
Project hanagement
1/88              2         12          Highway Engineer
Economist
Completion           3/90              1          4         Operations Analyst
Total nui3er of days in field a       285



- 28 -
Table 9: Staff Inguts
Loan
Preparation    Appraisal      Negotiations   Processing          Supervision   PCR        Total
FY89
FY80
FY81           16.4           17.0            7.0            12.7                  6.1
FY82                                                                               8.5
FY83                                                          0.3                 22.8
FY84                                                                               8.3
FY85                                                                              21.8
FY86                                                          0.3                 29.8
FY87                                                          0.3                  9.2
FY88                                                                               5.2
FY89                                                                               3.5
FY90                                                                               0.2       6.2       6.4
FY91                                                                                         1.3        1.3
Total          16.4           17.0            7.0            13.6                115.4       7.5      125.3



- 29 -
AMNE
Status of Bank Loans to the Transport Sector
Loan     Loan                 Net
FY          Project            Number   Amount Cancelled  Amount Undisbursed  Status
73   First Highway ProJect    912-AL    18.50          0.99   i7.51                Closed
74   Sethiow Port Project    995-AL    70.00          20.34   49.66                Closed
74   First Railway Project    996-AL    49.00          5.94   43.06                Ctosed
77   Second Highway Project  1407-AL    41.50                 41.50                Closed
77   Second Port Project 1/  1427-AL    80.00         79.73    0.27                Closed
79   Third Highway Project   1683-AL   126.00                126.00                Closed
81   Fourth Highway Project  1892-AL   110.00         15.28   94.72                Closed
87   Fifth Highway Project   2808-AL   120.00                120.00       74.20    Ongoing
88   Second Railway Project  2976-AL   143.00                143.00      143.00    Ongoing
89   Third Ports Project 2/  3105-AL    63.00                 63.00       63.00    Ongoing
Totat                       821.00      122.28  698.72      280.20
1/ The implementation of an envisaged port project eP  Jijel did not materialize because of
the postponement of an associated new steel complex. The loan was cancelled in 1980.
2/ Ports of Atgiers, Armabo, and Oran.



IBRD  13997R1
0  T1?st*aI"Wv.*    b                                                       2-                                                        4"
NO ft n* OrOA  W"ow
J        tJEI   N IW * .  b -
EJlT                                 ii                                                                                                                                                                           I                   I41 d                       lor rb
Bord kMar  Seou  EAeie&MtW1-%ivicmI',NNAA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RI KW.
_ ord~ Mira    Souk El TeWrne                           i                                                                                                                     D                           For detoil, see inset in upper left.    N            SKIKOA         /                   Rw! iA
ww,"Mwf or wwtwm f                                                      AALGERIAl
_NAAMA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I aN _U  El. BOrrU aAGHI n*.rA    I
\~~~~.    fHRDI *i                                                   t_rNEinfW*              PAEenT      TUNE        RAD                                                                                                                           T    E                 AIN DEFL     i            NAAMA
n E                                                                               LIDA                                                                                                                            GUE                        L    <ALGERI
KMCECT4AR        ICONSTRUCTION RECONSTRUCTION STRENGTHENING CONSTRUCTION BETTERENT
_t '/           /  ~OUARGLA   1                                                                                 FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                  0    PILOT ROAD MAINTENANCF PRO(CRAM                            AIN TEMOUCHENT         BLIDA                    El 8AYADH
_  ~~~~~ >  9   _[   }                                                                  "000~~~~~~~~~~~~OO  Proposed Under Fourth Highway Project        O    SUPPLEMENTAL ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                     ORAN                    80UIRA                   LAGHOQUAT
/2                /                  \                                                 @"~~~~~~'I                      Proposed Urnder FIrIr Hrghwoy Pro1ec                 -     PAVED NATIONAL ROADS                                     MOSTAGANEM              BORDJ BOU ARRERIDJ       DJELFA
zTINDOUF     ADRAi                                                                                                             FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                      PAVED WILAYA ROADS                                         CHLEF                  SETIF                    8iSKRA
36C                          AliARl  iE_ Proposed Under Fifth Highway Projec                                                                RAILROADS                                                  TIPA2A                 MILA                     KHENCHELA
Ao iu                   I ._                                                                                                        Proposeid Under Fourth Highway                       4.   AIRPORTS                                                  BOUMERDES               CONSTANtlNE              TEBESSA
ElAru                                       ILLIZIO(                                                                                  Pro1ect (Implemented)                                     RIVERS                                                    T121 OU20U              GUELMA                   EL OUED
\   t   t   \<                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ProjPect (NoUt Implemenute d)ja  0    TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                      BEJAIA                  SOUK AHRAS               8ECHAR
N                                                                                                                                                                          0  >i    WILAYA CAPITALS                                        JIJEL                  SAIDA                     GHA*DAIA
t     TAMsANGHASSET                                                                                   THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                             69   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           SKIKDA                 TLARET                    OUARGLA
\ \ .~~ SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                 -=-'- WILAYA BOUNDARIES                        -ANNABA                                   TISSEMSILT               tlNDOUF
'.4  o                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT               -. -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       ELD TELAR BE           MESDELA                  TAMANGASE
21                                              MOTSGTAGANI E ASE                                                                                                                                                                                                       MIL                       AMNOASE
To Gao '       .'                                                                                                                                                                                                             MASCARA                 BASNA                    ILLIZI
.1 11,1 2,0 n0G 4.0                                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 1A9



