Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Rept Ne.P-2852-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 13, 1980
Thi dcum" is  a mticted ditribtlzo NW may be and by rewipkts by in th pformane ofi
their ScIl dis. Its eututs My no oterwise be dissd witho  Wod Dunk eutho_da.



ALGERIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1979)
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$  1.00       =         DA   3.80
DA   1.00       =         US$  0.26
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter  (m)             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer  (km)        0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer  (km2)  0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare  (ha)          2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)              0.2642 US gallons
1 metric ton (m ton)    2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CNAN:         Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation
MPW:          Ministry of Public Works
DIB:          Directorate for Basic Infrastructure (of the MPW)
DR:           Directorate for Road Infrastructure (of the MPW)
NR:           National Road
SNTF:         Societe Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires
SNTR:         Societe Nationale des Transports Routiers
SNTV:         Societe Nationale de Transport des Voyageurs
SONATRACH:    Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport,
la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Public Works
Amount:               US$110 million equivalent
Terms:                Seventeen years including four years' grace and interest of
8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would assist Algeria in attaining
its objectives in the highway subsector by improving
overall road maintenance and training of maintenance
personnel, reconstructing a section which is presently a
serious bottleneck in the national network that could
hamper regional development, improving the efficiency
and productivity of the construction industry and helping
develop a program to increase access in rural areas.
The loan would finance: (i) the full foreign exchange
cost of (a) additional equipment for routine and light
periodic maintenance within a second tranche of a five
year maintenance program and (b) training of maintenance
personnel; (ii) 87 percent of the foreign cost of (a) a
second tranche of a long-term pavement strengthening
program and (b) the reconstruction of a 7 km section
of the National Road 9 (NR 9) between Bordj Mira and
Kherrata; and (iii) 70 percent of the total cost of
consultants services for construction supervision,
training of public construction industry personnel and
preparation of a project to improve the country's rural
road network.
Benefits include increased productivity of maintenance
operations, reduction in transport costs and savings in
road expenditures. Direct beneficiaries are road users
and road maintenance authorities. The major identifiable
risk relates to the cost of the NR 9 reconstruction.
However, the cost estimates were updated during negotia-
tions based on recent bidding for similar works. Further-
more, sensitivity analyses show that substantial cost
increases would not jeopardize the economic viability of
the works.
This document has a trtticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thbit official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                  Local       Foreign      Total
---------US$ Million--------
Road Maintenance                                    7.3        35.7        43.0
Pavement Strengthening                             16.5         17.9       34.4
Training and Assistance                             0.8          2.4         3.2
Reconstruction NR 9 Section                        39.0         40.6        79.6
Studies                                            0.0          0.2         0.2
Total Base Cost                              63.6         96.8       160.4
Physical Contingencies                              7.6          7.9        15.5
Price Contingencies                                15.0         15.4       30.4
Subtotal                                     22.6         23.3        45.9
Total                                             86.2 1/    120.1        206.3
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                      -         110.0       110.0
Government Contribution                      86.2         10.1        96.3
Total                                        86.2        120.1       206.3
--US$ Million--------
Estimated Disbursements:                      FY  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Annual                                       25.0  15.0  20.0  25.0  25.0
Cumulative                                   25.0  40.0  60.0  85.0 110.0
Rate of Return:    A weighted average of about 90 percent on the quantifiable
components.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2916-AL of June 5, 1980
1/   Includes about $17 million in taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of US$110
million to help finance a fourth highway project. The loan would have a term
of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Algeria" (1816-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1978. Updating economic missions visited Algeria in May 1978 and
in March and December 1979. The main conclusions of the missions are given
in the following paragraphs. An updating Economic Memorandum is under prepara-
tion. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending 1980.
These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for develop-
ment, although international economic relations would be expanded and diversi-
fied; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
These objectives, and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementa-
tion, take into account the country's physical and socio-economic potential;
the country's leadership is deeply committed to them. Political developments
following the illness and death of President Boumediene have not affected
Algeria's prevailing economic policies. A smooth transfer and wider sharing
of power among political institutions have characterized the transition
leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the appointment
of a new Government in March 1979. The strategy of the new development plan
is being discussed and the Plan is expected to be approved in the autumn of
1980.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means
1/   This updates Part I of the President's Report for the Fifth Education
Project (Loan 1803-AL of March 26, 1980).



- 2 -
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the
rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the eco-
nomy will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management struc-
tures, introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of
people's assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already
effective at local government level, has been introduced at the national level
by the new constitution approved in November 1976. The President and the
new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the basic principles of
Algeria's long-term development objectives and strategy and the implementa-
tion of the National Charter. Emphasis has been put, in particular, on the
need for better utilization of existing capacities and increased efficiency in
management and production, on the importance of agriculture and training, and
on satisfying the basic material and social needs of the population, including
housing and education.
5.         Taking into account the improved financial prospects resulting
from increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the objectives of the
1974-77 Plan were to: (i) increase the level of investment to speed up the
construction of the country's productive base and economic infrastructure and
the expansion of community and social services; (ii) restructure the invest-
ment program in favor of non-industrial sectors and less developed regions
inland of the coastal plains and Northern valleys; and (iii) increase the
number of unskilled jobs and improve individual consumption levels and the
distribution of growth benefits. The Plan also called for vigorous imple-
mentation of measures, introduced by the Government since 1971, aimed at
decentralizing and improving economic management.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the 1974-77 Plan. The growth of fixed investment averaged 19 percent
per year in real terms and its ratio to GDP at current prices rose to 48
percent of GDP in 1977 from 34 percent in 1973. While hydrocarbon production
was uneven during 1974-77, a result of dependence on technical and external
market circumstances, GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors,
averaging 9 percent per year. A high rate of national savings was achieved,
averaging 38 percent of GDY (Gross Domestic Income) and financing 83 percent
of total investment. The marginal savings rate was 36 percent, due in large
part to the substantial improvement in terms of trade in 1974 which was only
partly eroded thereafter. More than half a million jobs were created in
industry and services in this period and the rate of unemployment in non-
agricultural sectors was reduced to about 20 percent in 1977 (28 percent in
1966). Private consumption growth is estimated to have averaged 9 percent per
annum, reflecting the large employment creation and the increases in income
levels, especially for the least-favored groups in rural and urban areas.
Finally, Algeria's performance in promoting regional development has been
impressive during the Plan (see para. 11).



7.        Developments were not as positive in several other areas.  The
implementation of the Plan generated imbalances, between the high level of
investment and Algeria's financial and human resources and in the distribution
of investment between industry and other sectors. This led to pressures on
the external and domestic financial situation, to increased development lags
in non-industrial sectors and to other constraints on efficiency in industry.
Such constraints included in particular skilled manpower shortages, limited
management capacity, and insufficient intersectoral and intrasectoral coordi-
nation. The external financial situation deteriorated in 1977, following an
improvement in 1976; the current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion
from $0.9 billion in 1976. Despite large disbursements on external loans
committed through 1977, mostly from commercial sources, net foreign reserves
decreased by $300 million to two months of 1977 imports. In spite of the
large surpluses on current operations (budgetary savings) resulting from oil
revenues, the Treasury showed large and growing overall deficits because of
the considerable appropriations for public enterprise investments and to cover
their operating deficits. For the same reasons, credit to the economy and
money supply increased sharply, especially in 1975 and 1976. The growth of
Central Bank advances to the Treasury remained limited, however, because of
the mobilization by the Treasury of savings of public agencies and current
surpluses of Treasury depositors.
8.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued particularly
in agriculture and industry. Agricultural units of the Socialist and Agrarian
Revolution Sectors are now responsible for their production and investment
plans, under the supervision of the local authorities and the agricultural
credit bank (BNA). These measures have begun to have a beneficial impact on
the output and financial results of these units. In industry, most of the
public enterprises are now under the "socialist management" system, which
should improve efficiency in the long run since it encourages decentraliza-
tion of financial and technical management from the enterprise level to the
more manageable production unit. Decentralization of the financial system
and in other sectors in general, however, requires revision of credit policy
and fiscal management procedures for which initial measures were taken under
the 1976 and 1977 Finance Laws. It also requires increased financial and
accounting discipline in the enterprises, and the mobilization of sufficient
experienced staff to strengthen the banks, which will be a slow and diffi-
cult process. Decentralization and strengthening of the distribution (mar-
keting) system, especially for agricultural products, still require important
measures to be fully efficient.
9.       Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, favoring
particularly the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contribute
to raising the living standards of those groups have included increases in the
guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer prices
for agricultural products and subsidies on basic commodities. Further large
salary increases (35 percent) were decided by the Government in 1978. The
disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation of non-agricultural
employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, multiplication of
small- and medium-scale enterprises at the regional and local levels, con-
struction of public housing and rapid development of free health care, edu-
cation, training and other social services. Overall, Government current and



- 4 -
capital expenditure directly affecting social development increased to 53
percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1977 from 44 percent in
1973.
10.       According to the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was 17.3
million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living abroad, mainly
in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977, annual population growth was estimated at
3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from 33 percent to 41 percent
of total resident population. Some 58 percent of the population is now under
20 years of age. Together with a 6 percent rate of urban growth, this factor
is causing an extremely rapid increase in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employment. Despite the priority given to
modern and capital-intensive industries in the development strategy, employ-
ment creation has been impressive during 1974-77. Considerable efforts to
create employment will be needed in coming years, however, to cope with
existing unemployment and underemployment and absorb the additional labor
force. In agriculture, despite implementation of the. Agrarian Revolution,
underemployment has remained very high, affecting some 40 percent of the work
force. This is due to the seasonal nature and low productivity of Algerian
agriculture. The labor surplus in rural areas is being steadily reduced by
large regional development programs and by rural/urban migration. Another
problem facing Algeria is the acute shortage of skilled labor in many sectors.
This shortage is likely to persist for many years in spite of the considerable
training efforts which are pursued, often at very high cost, and the steady
return of skilled workers from abroad.
11.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims to provide equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions, thus limiting internal migration. Regional decen-
tralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities is very
advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels and is a
major determinant of the country's regional development. In addition to the
systematic location of heavy industrial investments in the interior of the
country under the National Plan, special programs for the least-favored
wilayas, urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD) programs have
been implemented since 1974 as part of the Four Year Plan to build the eco-
nomic and social infrastructure needed by secondary cities and rural communes.
At the end of the 1974-77 Plan, a total of DA 11 billion had been budgeted for
projects under the PMU and PCD programs, representing 40 percent of Government
direct investment and 10 percent of the country's total fixed investment. The
establishment of local enterprises (PMI) for construction materials and other
small-scale industries and for services has served to create employment, using
local resources, and satisfy local demand. Implementation of the regional
programs suffered initial delays due to insufficient local capacity to
identify, prepare and execute projects, but has accelerated since 1976 in most
of the wilayas.
12.       The Government decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional
years devoted to the completion of projects initiated under the 1974-77 Plan;
the introduction of a new multi-annual plan was postponed. Real GDP growth
was about 10 percent in 1978, propelled by further increases in non-hydrocarbon



- 5 -
sector output and an acceleration in hydrocarbon output growth (8 percent).
Agricultural production benefitted from better weather conditions which
permitted somewhat larger cereal harvests than in 1977. Although low capacity
utilization continued to plague many plants, relative improvements in the
operating levels of existing plants and start-up of new plants allowed manu-
facturing growth to accelerate (about 14 percent). The construction and
public work sector continued to expand rapidly, reflecting large increases in
investment. Total hydrocarbon exports increased by 8 percent in quantity,
thanks to a recovery in refined output and large increases in liquified gas
output following the start-up of LNGI in Arzew. The current value of exports
increased by only 6.4 percent, however, as Algerian oil prices diminished in
the first half of 1978 because of an unfavorable market situation for light
petroleum. The continuing cause for concern in 1978 was the size of the
investment program and the consequences it had on the country's financial
situation and the imbalances between industry and other sectors. Total public
investment increased by 25 percent in current terms in 1978. Public invest-
ment in industry alone increased by some 30 percent, due to a large extent to
the investment requirements of the hydrocarbon development plan.
13.       The large import requirements of the 1978 investment program caused
a further widening of the current account deficit to $3.5 billion, although
there was drawdown on stocks of capital goods accumulated in 1977 and strict
restrictions on other imports. Despite growing debt amortization obligations
($1 billion), net reserves at the end of 1978 were nonetheless estimated at
some $600 million above their 1977 level, equivalent to 2.5 months of 1978
imports. This was made possible by large drawings made before the end of the
year on the new loans contracted by Algeria in 1978 to finance its investment
program, especially for gas development. The new loan commitments (about
$5 billion) and disbursements ($4.7 billion) that Algeria made in 1978 in a
favorable international financial market, would have seemed excessive at that
time. Recent developments in world oil supply, however, have considerably
improved Algeria's export prospects and debt servicing capacity. On the
domestic side, because of the large Treasury investment appropriations
to public enterprises ($6.3 billion), the overall Treasury financing needs
from the Central Bank more than doubled from $0.9 billion in 1977 to $2.3
billion in 1978. Bank credit to the economy, mainly in the form of short term
credit to the public and collective enterprises, rose by 28 percent in 1978
and money supply increased at the same rate. In addition, the large salary
increases effected during the year have exerted further pressures on domestic
prices. The consumer price index for the Algiers area increased by 17 percent
in 1978.
14.       For 1979, the average price of Algerian crude oil was 50 percent
above the average price for 1978. This, combined with rising gas exports,
brought substantial additional financial resources amounting to $3.7 billion
in 1979. The economic situation has also benefited from the increased Govern-
ment emphasis on efficiency in management and production and from a timely
slowdown in capital expenditure growth, particularly in industry. While the
emphasis on social sectors, economic infrastructure and regional development
continued, appropriations for investment in industry were restrained in real
terms and mainly concerned on-going projects. According to preliminary



- 6 -
estimates, GDP growth continued at a high rate (about 9 percent). With the
increased revenue from the hydrocarbon sector, restraint on industrial invest-
ment and further limitations on imports, the resource gap was reduced to an
estimated $1.4 billion from $3.2 billion in 1978. The current account deficit,
despite growing interest payments on external debt, was estimated at less than
$2 billion. External capital requirements were thus substantially reduced in
1979. Because of a large increase in the Government current account surplus,
the overall financing needs of the Treasury were also considerably reduced in
1979 to about $1 billion. Domestic inflationary pressures which developed in
1978 were eased somewhat. Employment creation was again quite high in 1978-79
and the rate of unemployment in non-agricultural sectors declined further to
an estimated 16 percent in 1979.
15.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects for the 1980s will
be reflected in the next Plan, which will cover the period 1980-84. The
investment strategy is expected to be approved by a special congress of the
National Party (FLN) in 1980. While consonant with Algeria's long-term
objectives, it is expected to mark a shift in investment priorities in favor
of agriculture, water development and the social sectors, particularly housing,
and to further emphasize education and training, economic infrastructure
and regional development. In contrast, investment in non-hydrocarbon industry
will probably be moderated and more strictly allocated in order to complete
ongoing projects, achieve forward and backward linkages with existing indus-
tries, and improve utilization of existing capacities. It should, in addition,
be adjusted more closely to the rates of development in non-industrial sectors
and to the availability of human resources, and should favor smaller labor-
intensive industries. The next Plan will probably also give special attention
to measures and programs aimed at improving economic and financial management,
eliminating sectoral deficiencies and bottlenecks and, generally, increasing
the efficiency of the economic system. Algeria will continue to count on
external technical assistance in its efforts to relieve existing constraints
on efficiency, although it will rely increasingly on national managerial and
technical capabilities.
16.       Regarding the hydrocarbon sector, there are indications that, in
view of the level now reached by oil prices ($34 per barrel since February
1980, from an average $21 in 1979), Algeria may favor a new policy of con-
servation of oil and gas resources to retard their depletion and avoid possible
balance of payments pressures in the future. The appropriate level of the
country's investment having been established, the new approach would be
simultaneously to project the appropriate levels of hydrocarbon exports and
external borrowing for balancing financing needs while reducing moderately the
debt burden from its current level.
17.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects depend on three main
factors: the level of hydrocarbon export revenues; the level and composition
of the country's investment; and the pace of improvement in the efficiency of
the economic system. Based on a careful assessment of these factors, and
subject to the final provisions of the next Plan, Bank staff projections (see
Annex 1) show that Algeria should be able to maintain an overall GDP growth
rate of about 6.5 percent during 1980-84, based on a relatively rapid growth



of the non-hydrocarbon economy (about 9 percent). The growth of gross domestic
income, which incorporates the effect of terms of trade changes, should be
above 9 percent during that period because of the expected rise in both the
real price and the relative importance of gas. During 1985-1989, GDP growth
would accelerate, while the growth of GDY would decline as the real price of
gas stabilizes. The resource gap is projected to become a surplus by 1981
when the large condensate and gas projects begin to generate increasing
export revenues. Past and future commercial loans and credits will, however,
induce increasing debt repayment obligations. The country thus faces borrowing
requirements well into the 1980s.
18.       Based on the above projections, external borrowing requirements
during 1980-84 are projected to average about $3.5 billion annually in terms
of commitments. The projected commitments are large but would be well within
Algeria's debt-carrying capacity, which has been considerably strengthened by
the recent oil price increases. In terms of access to external sources of
financing, these amounts appear manageable since they can be met for the most
part by suppliers' credits linked to future industrial investment. In addi-
tion, Algeria can easily mobilize financial credits in view of the experience
it has acquired in international financial markets. Borrowing from official
sources would remain relatively small. These include the African Development
Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC; Algeria signed a financial and trade
agreement with the EEC in April 1976.
19.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at $8.4 billion ($15 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 43 percent of GDP. It was estimated at $13.2 billion, or
53 percent of GDP, at the end of 1978. The debt service ratio increased from
14 percent in 1975 to 18 percent in 1977, and 24.6 percent in 1978. It
decreased to an estimated 22 percent in 1979, and based on past and pro-
jected borrowings, it would remain at that level until 1982. Thereafter
debt service would decline in relation to exports when the large condensate
and gas projects come on stream. Bank lending, past and projected, represents
only a small fraction of the country's external financing requirements.
At the end of 1978, the portion of Algeria's total debt outstanding and
disbursed owed to the Bank was estimated at 1.7 percent. Based on total
external borrowing (commitments and disbursements) projected above, this share
would rise over the next years, to some 5 percent by 1984. Algeria is credit-
worthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
20.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed in
FY1973. Since then, twenty-one loans have been approved totalling $1,005.4
million (net of cancellations). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
While the physical execution of most projects is progressing well, disburse-
ments for some loans have been slow. This has been particularly the case for
the loan to the Algerian Development Bank (BAD), the technical assistance loan



- 8 -
for rural development, the third loan for education and the loan for the
port of Jijel. The BAD and rural development projects are now advancing
satisfactorily and disbursements are picking up. Delays in awarding the
main construction contract are the cause for slow disbursements under the
third loan for education. As for the Jijel Port project, the Government
has informed the Bank that it is reassessing the size and timing of a
previously planned steel complex adjacent to the port in the context of
the preparation of the 1980-84 Plan. Reappraisal of the project may be
necessary if there is any substantial departure from initial plans.
21.       The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic, sector and financial management and project preparation
and implementation and these factors have been prominent in the Bank's economic
dialogue with the Government. At its request, the Bank is currently engaged
in a study of enterprise financing and the role of the banking system.
Previous projects have included technical assistance to enhance appraisal
capability and improve auditing of national companies. A technical assistance
loan for rural development was made in FY75. The SN Metal technical assistance
project approved in November 1979 addresses one of the most serious problems
affecting economic growth in Algeria: the difficulty of starting up new plants
and reaching satisfactory capacity utilization because of the shortage of
necessary management skills and industrial experience. The delays still being
faced in the start-up of this project illustrate the difficult decision-making
process at a juncture when the Government is taking stock of its past develop-
ment strategy and policies. One of the major components of the Algiers
sewerage project is the creation of a water supply and sewerage authority for
Greater Algiers and the provision of technical assistance for its management
and operations.
22.       The project proposed in this report, as well as the three previous
highway projects, include technical assistance to improve planning and implemen-
tation capacity in the transport subsector in Algeria. As in the past, most
projects contemplated for the coming years are expected to include technical
assistance components. In addition to its project-related impact in this
area, the Bank has been Executing Agency for several UNDP-financed tech-
nical assistance projects including an agriculture sector planning project and
a telecommunication study.
23.       Bank lending since 1973 has aimed at relieving developmental bottle-
necks in lagging sectors, with the main emphasis on support in education and
infrastructure. Lending for education has accounted for about 27 percent
of Bank commitments in Algeria, and has focused mainly on meeting the urgent
demand for skilled manpower. Loans for transportation (highways, railways,
ports), contributing to the country's economic integration and regional
development objectives, account for about 38 percent of total Bank commitments,
and two loans for power, for about 10 percent. The balance is accounted for
by industry (three projects, including the loan to BAD), agriculture (two
projects) and water supply and sewerage (two projects).
24.       The Bank's involvement in the latter two sectors, and in such new
ones as urban development, reflects the Government's desire to strengthen its



- 9 -
planning and project preparation capability in areas which until now had not
commanded as high a priority, and where the needs for development are pressing.
Under the first sewerage project for Algiers, approved in 1978, studies are
included to prepare similar projects for Bank financing in two other major
Algerian cities. A Water Supply Engineering Project approved early this year
provides for the preparation of a major water supply project for the Greater
Algiers metropolitan area. In agriculture, the Bank has prepared, in full
cooperation with the Government, an Agricultural Sector Survey (Report No.
2203-AL) which was distributed to the Executive Directors in October, 1979.
In addition, two loans were approved, respectively in June 1979 and February
1980, for a meat industry project (ONAB), and to assist in the rehabilitation
of irrigation infrastructure in the Bas Cheliff district, including preparation
of two follow-up projects in the Cheliff basin. An integrated agriculture
development project in Sidi Bel Abbes and a fisheries project are being
prepared with the assistance of the FAO Cooperative Program. A first urban
development project is being prepared for Annaba, one of the cities where
Algeria's acute housing shortage is most pronounced.
25.       Projects are planned for subsequent years in agriculture and rural
development, education, water supply/sewerage, telecommunications, rural
roads, highways, industry, and urban development. This lending program, by
stressing objectives going beyond the simple transfer of resources, responds
to Algeria's efforts to sustain rapid socio-economic development and its needs
for technical assistance.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.       Algeria's transport network consists of some 40,000 km of classified
and at least 60,000 km of local and unclassified roads, about 4,000 km of
railways, eight major ports, four international and ten domestic airports, and
about 6,000 km of oil and gas pipelines. The road and rail networks, which
handle over 95 percent of all inter-urban goods and passenger traffic, are
concentrated in the northern coastal and high plateaux regions, which comprise
about 20 percent of the total land area of 2.4 million km2 and house about 90
percent of the total population. The networks connect all major Algerian
cities and link the country with neighboring states. Transport services are
provided by two public road transport enterprises, the Societe Nationale
des Transports Routiers (SNTR) and the Societe Nationale des Transports de
Voyageurs (SNTV); one public enterprise for railways, the Societe Nationale
des Transports Ferroviaires (SNTF); one national shipping company, Compagnie
Nationale Algerienne de Navigation (CNAN); a national airline, Air Algerie;
and SONATRACH, the national oil company, for pipelines. These agencies, under
the general supervision of the Ministry of Transport, are responsible for
practically all transport in the country.
27.       The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the overall planning
and coordination of all investments in roads, railways, ports and airports,
based on proposals submitted by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and the
public enterprises. The MPW is responsible for the planning, preparation and



- 10 -
execution of all infrastructure work for roads, ports and airports, and
provides assistance for railway infrastructure. The Planning Ministry co-
ordinates transport investments with those of the other sectors. The Training
and Test Division in the MPW's Directorate of Personnel and Training is
responsible for specialized training for the public works sector. Because of
rapid growth, a shortage of qualified staff continues to hamper sectoral
planning and project preparation and implementation. The Government has begun
implementing specialized training programs and improving educational facili-
ties, and is also currently carrying out a nationwide review to assess the
effectiveness of existing personnel policies in the public sector which is
expected to result in greater equality between working conditions in the
administration and those in the public enterprises. For the present, the
Government continues to rely on assistance from consultants to supplement
existing staff for specific project preparation and implementation activities
while developing local staff in appropriate qualifications and numbers to
gradually assume full responsibility.
28.       Algeria's development strategy in the last decade, stressing the
rapid establishment of a diversified and integrated industrial base within a
general policy of regional development, has resulted in a commodity traffic
growth rate of over 10 percent per year. However, only about 7 percent of
annual public expenditure has been earmarked to maintain and develop transport
infrastructure while in countries with a similar GDP per capita the amount
allocated averages 15 to 20 percent. As a result of the increasing backlog in
modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance, many sections of both the road
and railway networks are now below standard for existing and forecast traffic,
and are inadequate to fulfill their crucial supporting role in economic
development. The Government's present strategy outlined in the draft 1980-84
Development Plan (see para. 15) is to give investment priority to the social
sectors, economic infrastructure and regional development. Investments in
industry will focus mainly on optimizing the use of existing capacity and new
large industrial plants will be located on an east-west axis on the High
Plateaux, to achieve both a wider spatial distribution of development and a
more equal income distribution and to preserve agricultural land.
29.       The country's transport sector program for the Plan period appears
reasonable in relation to present and projected demand. Annual transport
infrastructure investment planned for 1980-84 is about 3 percent lower in real
terms than that achieved in 1974-79. The most significant change in the
program between the two periods is a marked emphasis on railway investment.
Railway passenger traffic, largely commuters, has been increasing annually by
40 percent since 1976. Transport sector strategy during the 1980-84 Plan is
expected to emphasize more cost-effective maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading of the road network; improved operations, modernization of infra-
structure and renewal of equipment for railways; and improved working effi-
ciency of port infrastructure.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Transport
30.       The purpose of Bank lending for transport in Algeria is to assist
the Government to accelerate the development of this sector which has not kept



- 11 -
pace with the overall economic development of the country, to improve sectoral
institutions and to develop sound concepts of economic and financial planning.
Since 1973, the Bank has made six transport loans, for railways (Loan 996-AL),
ports (Loans 995-AL and 1427-AL), and highways (Loans 912-AL, 1407-AL and
1683-AL). The $49 million loan for railways, which supports SNTF's rehabilita-
tion program, provides for rolling stock equipment, track rehabilitation and
technical assistance. The first port loan of $70 million assists in financing
the construction of the Bethioua port (Arzew), for export of liquified natural
gas, and technical assistance. The second port loan of $80 million provides
financing for the construction of the Jijel port to serve a steel complex, for
technical assistance to the port construction company, SONATRAM, and for proj-
ect design and supervision.
31.       The First Highway project involved a loan of $18.5 million for
improvement of several road sections, purchase of equipment and studies,
which have served as the basis for the second, third and proposed fourth
projects. The loan was closed in June 1979. The Audit Report (No. 2882 of
March 13, 1980) indicates that the major project objectives as well as the
originally estimated project rate of return have been achieved. Following a
delay in the start of implementation of the $41.5 million Second project
because of an unsuccessful first round of bidding for construction of the
Boudouaou-Lakhdaria section of the main road between Algiers and Constantine,
works are now in progress and the loan is fully committed. The Third Highway
project, approved in mid-1979 through a $126 million Bank loan, is proceeding
according to appraisal estimates and the loan is 90 percent committed.
Contracts have been awarded for the construction, maintenance equipment and
pavement strengthening components and the training program for foremen and
mechanics started in February 1979. The Second, Third and proposed Fourth
Highway loans together represent about one-third of the foreign exchange cost
of road expenditures in Algeria over the relevant periods.
The Highway Subsector
32.       The road network consists of about 20,000 km of national roads,
20,000 km of wilaya (provincial) roads, and an estimated 60,000 km-of local
and unclassified rural, forestry, service and private roads and tracks.
A large proportion of paved roads, which represent about 83 percent of the
classified road network, is in poor condition and deteriorating due to
increasingly heavy traffic combined with inadequate and delayed maintenance
in the past. In addition, the alignment of many roads, particularly in the
rugged topography of the mountains, valleys and plateaux which parallel the
coast, is inadequate for existing and forecast traffic volumes. These diffi-
cult conditions explain in some measure the relatively high cost of road
improvement and construction prevailing in Algeria.
33.       The vehicle fleet in 1980 is estimated at about 800,000 units,
or about twice the number in 1975. Of these, about 30 percent are heavy
vehicles, up from about 20 percent in 1975. The average annual growth rate
of the vehicle fleet since 1976 has been about 14 percent. An important
characteristic of the vehicle fleet is its average age of over 10 years which



- 12 -
is high compared to countries in the same per capita income range and which
increases the correlation of direct vehicle operating costs to road conditions.
About 76 percent of freight and 90 percent of inter-urban passenger traffic is
carried by road. Annual growth has averaged 10 percent for freight and 25
percent for passengers since 1976. Road traffic is projected to increase at
an annual rate of 10 percent until 1984.
34.       The former Ministry of Public Works and Construction was reorganized
in early 1978 with the creation of separate Ministries for Public Works and
for Housing and Construction. As a result, the new MPW is now more sharply
focused on transport infrastructure. A subsequent internal reorganization
within that Ministry is expected to result in a growing responsiveness to the
needs of the sector, particularly at the local level. The MPW's Directorate
for Road Infrastructure (DR) has overall responsibility for the planning and
administration of road construction and maintenance. The DR operates in the
field through 31 wilaya Directorates for Basic Infrastructure (DIB) to which
it provides technical assistance. The DIBs are responsible for supervising
all new construction of and maintaining national and wilaya roads, supervising
new construction of and assisting local authorities in the maintenance of
local roads, and preparing plans for regional highway development.
35.       The MPW finances all new construction and maintenance of national
roads and new construction of wilaya roads. Maintenance of wilaya and construc-
tion and maintenance of paved local roads is financed by local administrations,
which also finance expenditures for existing and new unpaved local roads.
Total expenditures on roads have increased steadily since 1976 at an annual
average of 21 percent for investments and 10 percent for recurrent expenditures
in real terms. Budget allocations for national, wilaya and local paved roads
in 1980 are expected to reach $390 million, of which $100 million are earmarked
for maintenance and $290 million for capital investments. Annual budget
allocations are expected to remain at that level through 1983, in constant
terms, and are adequate. Revenues from road user taxes and charges more than
cover the highway subsector's share of transport infrastructure expenditures
and are adequate to cover the projected higher expenditure level.
36.       The modest level of investment in road infrastructure before 1976
has hindered the growth of related construction industry capacity. With the
increase in investments since 1976, emphasis has been put on attracting
foreign contractors through ICB to carry out the largest and most technically
difficult road works and to provide the competitive atmosphere necessary to
strengthen and expand the domestic construction industry. The Government also
urges domestic contractors to compete for large contracts through ICB and has
introduced measures to encourage joint ventures. The creation in 1979 of six
new public road construction enterprises, together with efforts to improve the
efficiency and productivity of existing public enterprises, should help
relieve construction industry constraints in the long term (see also para. 47).
The combined capacity of domestic contractors and expected foreign participa-
tion would be adequate to implement the planned investment program.
37.       Because the development of the transport system in Algeria, and
of the road network in particular, has failed to keep pace with the overall



- 13 -
economic growth of the country, the sector constitutes a potentially serious
constraint to continued economic and regional development. The Government
is aware that the success of its development strategy will depend in large
measure on the ability of the transport sector to accommodate it. The Govern-
ment's objectives, then, in the highway subsector include improved road main-
tenance, rehabilitation and upgrading of the main road network to meet current
and forecast demand, and upgrading or reconstruction of those sections of the
primary network which constitute major bottlenecks to national and regional
development. The proposed project would fully support these objectives, and
would in addition provide assistance in strengthening the efficiency of the
construction industry and developing a rural roads program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The investments under the proposed project support the global objec-
tives of the Government's draft five-year Plan, namely the development of
Algeria's economic infrastructure, a continued emphasis on regional develop-
ment and improved efficiency (see para. 15). The proposed project, which was
identified by the Government and a Bank mission in October 1978, was prepared
by the Government's Ministry of Public Works (MPW) based on components selected
from studies financed in part under the First Highway Project. The project
was appraised in January 1980. Negotiations took place in May 1980. The
Algerian delegation was headed by Mr. Lamoudi, Deputy Director in the Ministry
of Finance. A report entitled "Algeria, Staff Appraisal Report of a Fourth
Highway Project", (No. 2916-AL) dated June 5, 1980, is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is provided
in the beginning of this report; a Supplementary Project Data Sheet, Annex
III, and maps showing the national road network and the location of project
works are also attached.
Objectives and Description
39.       The proposed project continues the integrated approach to road
development and maintenance begun under the Third Highway project (1683-AL)
and will, in addition, assist to increase the efficiency of the national
construction industry and to develop a program to increase access in rural
areas. The project includes: (i) a second tranche of a five-year main-
tenance program; (ii) a second tranche of a long-term pavement strengthening
program; (iii) the continuation of a program for training maintenance personnel;
(iv) reconstruction and supervision of a 7 km section of the National Road 9
(NR 9) between Bordj Mira and Kherrata; and (v) assistance to improve the
efficiency of public construction enterprises and to maintain and rehabilitate
rural roads.
Road Maintenance
40.       Studies carried out under the First Highway project have shown that
40 percent of national roads and nearly 75 percent of regional roads are
resurfaced only every 10 to 13 years, whereas an acceptable interval is
considered to be about 5 to 7 years. Most of the routine and light periodic



- 14 -
maintenance operations, which would be carried out most cost-effectively
by the provincial directorates responsible for these works, are instead
contracted out at high cost. Thus, despite increases in road investment since
1976 (para. 35), maintenance levels have remained inadequate because of
insufficient equipment and personnel. The Government has initiated a five-year
(1980-1984) maintenance program which includes the restructuring and consolida-
tion of maintenance operations at all levels. The Third Highway loan included
financing for equipment needed for routine maintenance and surface dressing
during a two-year period (1980-81) of this program, which is expected to be in
operation in 1981. The proposed project would cover a second two-year tranche
(1982-83) of the program and would finance the same type of maintenance
equipment, to be procured and in operation in 1982. By 1983, the provincial
directorates would dispose of an adequate supply of equipment. With the
concurrent training of maintenance personnel, the program should permit an
acceptable resurfacing interval and the implementation of adequate routine
maintenance and surface dressing by these directorates by 1985. Contractors
would continue to carry out heavy periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and new
construction.
41.       An understanding was reached during negotiations of the previous
loan on physical targets and overall budgetary allocations for maintenance
operations in 1980 and 1981 (para. 35) . A similar understanding was reached
during negotiations of the proposed loan for 1982 and 1983. Updated detailed
physical targets and budget appropriations for 1980 were discussed during
negotiations and are consistent with the previously agreed overall budget
allocations. For 1981 onwards, detailed physical targets and budget appro-
priations relating to the agreed overall budgetary allocations would be sent
to the Bank for review and comment in April of each year. Assurances have
been obtained that the Government would renew maintenance equipment in a
timely manner and provide additional personnel, as needed to carry out a
second two-year tranche of the program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (i), (ii)
and (iii)).
Pavement Strengthening
42.       Routine maintenance and periodic surface dressing are generally
sufficient for those roads where the pavement structure is adequate to carry
the traffic forecast for the next 10 years. Where the pavement structure is
inadequate for present and future traffic levels the road must be strengthened
or rehabilitated by asphalt concrete overlays, and, if necessary, widened and
realigned and the shoulders improved. A highway master plan, also financed
under the first Bank loan, identified a long-term program of pavement strength-
ening for some 2,000 km of primary and secondary roads. The Third loan
provided financing for a time slice of this program representing about 250 km
of road sections. Bids for about 175 km of these were received in February
1980 and construction is expected to start in mid-1980. A second time slice of
some 130 km would be financed under the proposed loan. Studies on the relevant
road sections are being prepared according to the criteria and procedures
agreed during negotiations of the previous loan and would be approved by the
Bank prior to tendering of the works (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). The
criteria include evidence that the economic return on each section equals or
exceeds 10 percent and that implementation would not begin before the estimated
optimal year.



- 15 -
Maintenance Training
43.       The MPW operates several schools to train its staff, from mainte-
nance personnel to engineers, and is planning to increase its educational
capacity over the next several years to meet growing manpower needs. The
Government has confirmed that it would carry out an in-depth study of the
existing MPW schools with a view to upgrade the curricula offered and improve
the coordination of the Ministry's training effort for all public works sector
personnel. To support MPWs training effort, seminars and intensive courses
were financed under the Second Highway project and periodic workshops and
*          seminars as well as two training centers in Bethioua (Arzew) and Batna, to
train and upgrade mechanical maintenance personnel, were financed under the
Third project, largely to ensure the efficient implementation of the five-year
maintenance program.
44.       The training program in Bethioua and Batna, to be carried out in
two phases, is designed to train about 175 and retrain and upgrade 220 equip-
ment operators and site and workshop mechanics annually, and to train Algerian
instructors to carry on the instruction program. Each training center is
supplemented with an adjacent mechanical workshop and road equipment is
provided for the equipment operators. The first phase of the program in
Bethioua was started in February 1979 and 72 equipment operators finished the
course in January 1980. The second phase, for site mechanics, started in
April 1980. The first phase of the Batna center is expected to commence in
September 1980. Financing included under the Third loan is sufficient to
cover the cost of the two-phase program in the Bethioua center and the first
phase in Batna, and funds included under the proposed loan are earmarked for
the second phase in Batna. Agreement on the details of the training program
and on an annual review of progress was reached during negotiations of the
Third project; an understanding on the details of the Batna second-phase
program was reached during negotiations of the present project and assurances
obtained that sufficient numbers of trainees will be trained as instructors
to ensure the continuation of the program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (iii)
and (iv)).
Bordj Mira-Kherrata (NR 9 Section)
45.       The 111 km NR 9 is the major artery linking the port of Bejaia,
about 200 km east of Algiers, to the province of Setif and its capital, an
important industrial and agricultural center just over the high plateaux.
Studies carried out under the First Highway project determined that the 7 km
section of the road from Bordj Mira through the Gorges de Kherrata, where the
road crosses the mountains following a winding river bed, would become the
worst bottleneck on the NR 9. The present capacity of the road at 2,000
vehicles per day will be largely inadequate for the 3,000 vehicles per day
projected by 1985. Truck size is also currently limited by the road's design
and condition, and since many vehicles already use another road 132 km longer
through M'Chedallah to avoid delays on this section, the tariff now charged on
the Bejaia-Setif route is based on this detour. The main deficiencies of this
7 km section of the NR 9 include a narrow pavement which restricts two-lane
traffic, steep grades and sharp curves, substandard sight distance and fre-
quent rock falls.



- 16 -
46.       Studies have been carried out over the last four years, under Bank
supervision, to determine the most economically viable solution to maintaining
the economic growth of the Setif region by ensuring access from Bejaia, the
closest port, within the context of the Government's overall transport sector
strategy. The result is the works proposed under the project which include
replacement of the existing 7 km road with a new 6.2 km two-lane road, about
5 km of which will cross 14 viaducts and semi-viaducts and pass through 5
tunnels. About 4 km of the existing road would be improved to supplement
the new road for slow moving climbing vehicles. Traffic would be maintained
throughout construction. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the project completion report prepared by the Government would include a
detailed analysis of the distribution of the economic benefits from the
proposed road improvement (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(c)).
Assistance and Studies
47.       The proposed project includes about 27.5 man-years of technical
assistance. Some 200 man-months of consultants, including 18 man-months for
high-level expertise to ensure proper implementation of the most complex
works, are provided under the project for bid analysis and construction
supervision of the NR 9 section. In line with the Government's plans to
strengthen the efficiency and productivity of public construction enterprises,
about 120 man-months of consultants would be provided over a three year period
to carry out specific tasks under contracts of variable duration. Terms of
reference for these consultants were discussed and finalized during negotia-
tions. An additional 10 man-months of consultant's services is provided to
assist in the preparation of a project to improve access to disadvantaged
areas and improve maintenance and rehabilitation operations on the country's
rural road network. About one-third of the proposed assistance program is
expected to be implemented by local consultants.
Project Implementation
48.       The MPW would be responsible for the overall implementation of
the project. The Directorate for Road Infrastructure (DR) (see para. 34)
would be responsible for procuring the maintenance equipment and civil works.
Responsibility for construction supervision of the NR 9 works would rest with
a special sub-directorate under the DR, assisted by consultants to be engaged
by MPW. The provincial Directorates for Basic Infrastructure (DIB), under the
supervision of the DR, would be responsible for maintenance operations. As
under the third project, the Directorate of Personnel and Training of the
MPW would be responsible for the training program. The responsibility for the
preparation of the rural roads project has been assigned to the Ministry of
the Interior.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
49.       Project cost is estimated at $206.3 million, of which $43 million
for maintenance equipment, $3.2 million for training and assistance, $114
million for civil works including construction supervision, $0.2 million for
studies and $45.9 million for physical and price contingencies. In addi-
tion, the two-year road maintenance program requires $183 million of recurrent



- 17 -
expenditures. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the
estimated cost of technical assistance and, because of the complexity of the
works, at 15 percent of the estimated cost of reconstruction on NR 9. No
physical contingencies are calculated for maintenance equipment as all items
have been accurately defined. Price contingencies are based on price escala-
tion rates over the period of project implementation,estimated overall at 12.5
percent of foreign costs and 18.5 percent of local costs, or an average 15
percent of baseline costs. Price escalation for civil works is estimated at
28 percent, and for equipment at 5 percent over the implementation period.
Consultants services are based on a man-month cost, including the man-month
*           rate, international travel and subsistence, of from $9,000 to $12,500.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $110 million, representing about 53 per-
,           cent of total project cost, would finance the full foreign exchange cost
of equipment and personnel training for the maintenance program, (ii) 87 per-
cent of the foreign cost of the pavement strengthening and NR9 reconstruction
components and (iii) 70 percent of the total cost of consultants services.
The Government would finance the balance of the project capital cost, $86.2
million, as well as $183 million of recurrent costs for the maintenance
program, for a total of $279.3 million. Local costs include about $17 mil-
lion in taxes. Assurances have been obtained that all necessary budgetary
funds would be made available for the proposed project (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01).
Procurement and Disbursements
51.       Civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. A.1). Draft bid documents
and contracts for civil works in excess of $5 million and equipment in
excess of $200,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4, para. D.2). In the evaluation of equipment bids,
local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15 percent
of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Contracts for spare parts would
be grouped to the extent possible to permit bulk procurement. Such contracts
in excess of $100,000 would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding or limited international tendering, while spare parts
for less than $100,000 could be procured directly from local import companies
on the basis of negotiated contracts. In addition, and if necessary for
purposes of standardization, spare parts could be purchased directly from
*           the original equipment supplier (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paras. A.3(ii)
and C).
52.       Bidders for the NR 9 construction were prequalified in February
1980, in agreement with the Bank. Bids are expected in July and the
contract should be awarded by September 1980. Contracts for equipment are
expected to be awarded in early 1981. An understanding was reached during
negotiations that the Government will guarantee the performance of public
enterprises in a manner similar to that agreed with the Bank under the
Second and Third Highway loans. Consultants for training, construction
supervision and technical assistance would be engaged in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 18 -
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 45 percent of total
cost for civil works, 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local costs
for equipment and spare parts, and 70 percent of total costs for consultants
services. Retroactive financing of consultants services that may be needed
before loan signing for bid evaluation of the NR 9 construction works and for
the rural road study is recommended for an estimated $100,000 (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 4).
Benefits and Risks
54.       The direct beneficiaries of the proposed project are road users, who
will have reduced transport costs through lower vehicle operating costs, and
as a result of improvements to the NR will benefit from an important distance
savings.  The improved road maintenance and rehabilitation programs will
increase the productivity of maintenance operations and the reconstruction of
the NR 9 section will reduce the improvement and maintenance needs of alternate
routes, ensure the continued development of the Setif region and indirectly
increase the productivity of the Bejaia port.
55.       The construction of the NR 9 section is essential to ensure the
continued development of both the region and city of Setif and the Bejaia
port. Technical and economic studies carried out over the past four years,
and reviewed at all stages by the Bank, indicate that traffic between Bejaia
and Setif will increase from some 650,000 tons of dry cargo in 1980 to some 3
million tons by the year 2000. This increase could be accommodated either by
improving the NR 9 section or rerouting traffic along an alternate road 132 km
longer, which would then have to be upgraded. Taking into account the con-
struction and maintenance costs and the benefits from reduced transport costs
compared to alternative solutions, the proposed reconstruction of the NR 9
section is the economically preferred solution and 1985 the optimum opening
year.
56.       The maintenance component has an economic return well in excess of
100 percent. Returns on the strengthening program differ by road section and
for those sections already prepared range from 25 to 35 percent. The return
on the improved NR 9 section has been calculated by the consultants based on
1977 construction cost estimates and vehicle operating costs. Including the
value of time savings, the return is estimated at 32.8 percent; excluding time
savings the return is about 29 percent. Sensitivity tests assuming a 10
percent increase in construction costs and a 10 percent decrease each in base
traffic, vehicle operating cost savings per vehicle and the traffic growth
rate, result in a decrease in the return to about 22 percent. The overall proj-
ect return on the quantifiable components, with the maintenance and strengthen-
ing programs weighted at 22 percent each and the reconstruction works at
56 percent, is at least 90 percent, assuming a 10 percent return on the
strengthening program which understates the actual rate expected. The train-
ing and assistance components are expected to yield substantial benefits in
the form of improved productivity and efficiency of public construction
companies and road maintenance operations and an improved national planning
and implementation capability.



- 19 -
57.       The major identifiable risk is related to the cost of the NR 9
reconstruction which will only be confirmed following bid evaluation (para.
52). However, the cost estimates for these works, which were updated during
negotiations based on recent bids for similar works in Algeria, have remained
almost constant in real terms since 1977. Thus the risk of a substantial cost
increase appears minimal. Since vehicle operating costs have increased by
about 35 percent since 1977, if construction costs are confirmed at their
present level the return on this component could be significantly higher than
the original calculation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed sep-
arately to the Executive Directors.
59.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for highway
projects. Special features of the draft Agreement are referred to in the text
and listed in Section III of Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 13, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                              ANNEX 1
page 1 of 6
ALGERIA - SOCIAL ItDICATORS DATA SHEET
,REFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAXD SO. KM.)                     ALCEIA                          - WOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            2381.7                                                     SAE          SAME      NEXT HKIHER
SGR2CULTCRAL      455.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOM         2iCOME
1960  /b    1970 'b ESTIMATM /b        REGION  c   GROLUF /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   470.0        640.0    1260.0            1532.5     1097.7       1942.6
ENERGY CONSUDPTION PER CAPITA
(K:LORAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       252.0        342.0     729.0            338.1       730.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL S-ATISTICS
POPUILATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      10.3         13.8      17.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCE.N OF TOTAL) 30.4           34.0      40.0              49.0       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR ZOO (MILLIONS)                         34.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)                           94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                    2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SO. KMN.                         4.3          5.8       7.2              19.9       44.6         28.2
PER SQ. 1KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND                   30.0      38.0             99.0       140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.0         47.5      48.0              45.6       41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         48.8      -9.0             51.4        55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.0          3.7       4.0               2.8        3.5          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.3          Z.9       3.2               3.0        2.4          1.7
URBAN                                7.Z2/        6.1       6.8              5.2         4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.0         49,0       46.0             43.7       31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.0         16.0       t4.0             13.5        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.5        3.6              3.2        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PL.ANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           149.7        104.0      81.0             90.8       104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREnENTS)                     73.0        78.0       89.0             99.0       105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            47.0         45.0      57.2             63.6        64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         14.0/h        9.0      13.7              16.0       23.5         31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       30.0         21.0       16.0             15.9        8.6           5.l
REALTH
LIFE EEXPECTANCY AT 3IRTH (YEARS)    47.0          53.0      56.0              53.8       60.2         65.6
'NFA-T 'ORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        142.0         ..               ..       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WArER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT70N)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      56.0              56.4       60.8         69.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..      S0.0             83.4        75.7         85.1
RL'RAL                                ..           ..      40.0             34.3        40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
'OTAL                                 ,,          9.0      43.0              59.1       46.0         70.1
'RBA.N                                .,         13.0       70.0             78.2       46.0         88.3
RURAL                                 '           6.0       25.0            26.4        22.5         33.2
POPULAT;ON PER PHYSICIAN            7930.0/0    7860.0    5590.0            3677.0      2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER N7JRSING PERSON          ..       2730.0    1560.0            1730.6     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              280.0/h      340.0     370.2            577.0       453.4        197.6
L'RAN                                 ..           ..         ..              ..       253.1        260.2
RLRAL                                 ..           ..         ..              ..      2732.4       1055.0
AiNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED                        14,3       18.4             21.3       22.1         17.3
HOUSING
A,I'ERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TCTAL                                 ..           ..         ..              5.8        5.3          4.7
URBMN                                 ..           ..         ..              5.5        5.2          4.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..               6.0        j.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
-OTAL                                 ..           ..        ..               ..         1.9          1.1
L'R33' A-                                         28!f        .                .          .           1.2
RlRAL                                 ..           ..         ..              ..         2.5          1.2
ACCESS To ELECTR'i=TY (?ERCINT
OF DUILLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         34.0/f       ..            45.1        50.0         66.0
'RBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             67.9        7'1.7        85.1
RURAL                                 ' *        12.3/f       ..                     .     37.2



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
page 2 of 6
ALCERIA- SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFSRENCE GROUPS (ADUSTED AV'ERAGES
AlGERIA                         - IOST RECE;T ESTIATE) 
SAME         sAlE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      CEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         ISCOttE
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   CROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCkTION
ADJUSTED ENROLLYENT RiATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  46.0         75.0      80.0              85.0       102.5        101.7
MALE                   55.0         92.0                        103.7      108.6        110.0
FEMALE                37.0          57.0        *.              66.0        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    8.0         11.0      31.0              27.6        33.5         51.2
MALE                    9.0         15.0        .               39.2        38.4         56.4
FEMAIL                  6.0          5.0         .              20.8        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)  29.0            20.0        2.5              4.3        11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0          40.0      41.0              32.6        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                            18.0         21.0       26.0             23.4        22.9         25.3
ADWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCEXT)          10.0         26.3       35.0             41.4        64.0         36.1
CONStUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           17.0         11.0       17.9             16.7        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           54.0            .     198.0             147.9       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPJLATION                            5.0          8.0       30.0             36.0        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
D3TEREST') CIRCJLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    28.0         15.0       17.0             17.9        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             6.0        2.7              2.9         3.7          3.6
LABOR FOfCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2700.0        3019.0    3820.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      3.2          4.1        5.0              8.6        25.0         24.5
AGRICL'LTURE (PERCENT)               66.8         50.0       35.0             43.0        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   12.1         14.6       18.0             23.7        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCE'T)
TOTAL                                  26.7         22.7       22.3             26.7        33.5         33.8
MALE                                   51.3         44.4       43.4             46.4        48.0         51.3
FEMALE.                                 1.7          1.5        1.9              5.1        16.8          16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8          2.6        2.4               1.8         1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..             21.4        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF H'OUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..             48.6        52.1         57.6
LOWEST Z0 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..                       .              5 .3        3.9          3.4
LowEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..             15.0        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSAN                                  ..           ..         *-            201.3       270.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         *-            134.2       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         *.            288.6       282 5        550.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         *-            170.0       248.9        403.a
ESTIMATED POP1LATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         *-             22.9        20.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..              31.2        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjuted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geometric means, excludirg the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends o. availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   'Unless other.-se noted, daca for 1960 refer to any year becteen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, beteen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent 7stimace, bet.reen 1974 and 1977.
/c    lorth Africa S Middle East;   /d  Intermediate Middde Income (S551-1135 per capita  1976);  /I  Jpper
-dddle Income ($1136-250C per capita, 1976);   If  1966;   Ig  1954-60;   /h  1962;   /I  1963;
i Certain fields of study previously classifted under other second Level educacion of a vocational
or technical nat.re are now reported under general educatcon; t-erefore daca not -omparabLe  -tco
those of earlier years.
Most Recent Estimate of ONY per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 2'2 -                                                       A EI
DIPINITTONI OF  XIdI.EA  INIhCATCfS                                         page   3   of   6
Notes:  Although the data are dean fro  souce  generlly judged the meat suthritatie  and reliable, it should also ha noted that they May oct be ictea-_
-Wiiycmpebis becaus  of the 1eon of stadardlued definitions ad conept,Pt  used by differet coutries in  oletn   the data. The data  -r, ocoe,theless,
useful to descibe orders of magitude, indicate irenda, end  hehraoterie cetain major differece  benenct                      nris
Theadustd  rouaeraesfor eahb ldiator are ppsiation-eeighted geomtric mean, excluding the entem   value  of the indicator and tbe  -ts  ppulated
coutryIc  achgrop.   thi t   ke,f data, grop aversca of all indictors foe CaPital Surplus Oil Rp.rtera and of indicators if Acros  to Water and fo-ta
Dilap.sal, Hossing, Income Distribution  and Pverty for other coutry groups are pop.lntioa-esightsd geo-tric men  athout esoloin  of the eut-o   oaiues ad
the mast populated coutry.         mo    hencrssofouirig  eMUagt   indisaturs d.esendo Is niealailite of data and is not unif.-. caution ,at be eserelsd
Indictiorgtatm          gteconr   n   eeec Tcohe..                  .o   n
tAAl ARiA  (thousad staine.)A-osn  to Ruoreta piaposal  (pe--e  of P.pnatioj    toal  ura,ad rurl 
Total - Totalsraee               pisg land area and inland vater.-                           Somber of people (toal  urha, an           a)serdbsrrn diPoa  no
dgiulua  -  Mtns  re-ct estimate of agicultural are  used temporaily                         porent-tge  of their resp-otice poplati-ns  toretu diapo-al nay inobode
or permnetir for cops, pastures, makAt and hitches garden  or to                          the -olleoti.e and disposal, with or nithoot treasmet, of hoses  e--rt,
lie fa1llo-                                                                                _an  sate-eatr by sater-bor-  eyatem   or the o-  of pit pries. and c.,nlla
991. ..CAPITA (US) - GIrP pee -apita estimates at curet marht price,                         P.Mglpi..per flpglln   -Pts.a"o  divided by touhrI of prartlojog physicians
ciIJ.ot.td by sag  conerion athod n  VurId lash Atlas (i976-78 basis);                       q.piilft.d fco     a adio-   nhool at ocicarity leve.
1960, 1910, ad i978 data.PiOo0ltio  prHsing Pro                                                                               Ppoplation dirided by toter, of paciin sl
mcot cISMTjiiS P50 CAPiTA   Anssi consumtion of cNenercileiea                                 ndfml  gaut  nures,pratical _ arse,  an daslatnre.
(ca n   Ignt,ptrlu,ntural gas and hydrn-,  -colar ad grn.Y.claio  pee Hospit.i Bed-ttlubn   n  roy l -Ppulation (total, urba,
therma   Iettriv.ity) Is Xilogeam   of coal equivalent Per oapitn; i960,                    and neal) dicided by their r-poctie- ouer of tosPltai beds anilubi  ~In
191   n  Il   aa                                                                             pb110 and prirate genera  and speiliced hostpitul and -etbiIitut- -ccet-r.
970, -d 1976 dt.~~~~~~~~~~~                                         H..bopitals ar  eatblbsts-ta prN-etoly staffed by at 1eoct oIc phynicino.
POI,ATOOR ANII) VITAL STATISTICS                                                              Eutabliebhecto providing peiocips.lly custdial cae" see  -totiboded. cRal
Totl P   ii~?h~Ye7iliot               A i  of Joly 1; i960, 1970, and                  h-soitnlt, h-a-r, ineluds hoaltb aod  edi-al cot- _ect pernoetly stafrod
1077 data.                                                          h~~~~~~~~~~~y a paysicia  (hut hby t   di-al  -ssitnt, curs,  idafe, etc.) chic) offer
fea   tp .tio(oret of total)   R Ptio of urban to total ppulati-c;                 ic-pt ten   -ecdai    and protide nhalted range of me,dicol facilciles
lifferetdefittions o  urban  renu sy affect oomParbilitY of data               dioib   peeH bosi ta  bd_ Tota   uber_f udiotI..t to or diociab               sfo
su cotece-; i960, 1970, and 1975 dntn-                                               bospitait dinided by the sober if bedo.
Ettosla-t, ion  Projeotitonu.-  b-
197  totalpoultinby ago  n   e  an    or               1uioty and fertility                         f  -hldh                             a                               -tt~
rae. Ivjcicparatcroo otit  rtsvern   f thre                                             A hot. cdcooss-fahro  ofbdiiolssoihr                          W100  qusteo   o
lecein  ssominglife vpeothop at birth i--esing nith  ouctrycs                     the: r unit anal,.  A ho-der -rldgor say vc ynt ho, i-ol..co  ci tbv
pee on pita tocone ireb -an  female lift e-peot-y stbilising at                  b-onhold for otntino;1cs1 P.,p-e..
P7.5 feitvo.  he pamot-r  for fertility Into also bhe,  three lees                    oesvusc-oroopr  on-ttl  cir   n   ot -itocono
asoobugdecine  t frtiity socodin  to Iscom   le_l and pan                         fproc    e  00   nil   ra,  n   onfucpe    ocrtic-u  d-eliofos,
fasi   luicproncs  nach co-tOr, Is tiso assigns0 ose ofte- cpetio-ly.  -ulin   0000od                                          t.sThco  otutroaduno.wOct
tinecm.binationa. of  -tality nod fertility trsudo for proj-oti.o                     Acces  to Eilotrioitp  (perceot of d-ollitgo) .         _totul  . _rb- .W  --~1 -   u.-
porpo-e.                                                                                cectio-i d-11itg  tub  electricity 1in biciog mo-t-r  an percoty
littiontry  population- in nntatiuonry populnoict there is to gro..th          total, urban, and ro..b d-ellitgcves.p-ti-ely.
olnr  icbirh  at  inequIto tic dc-ti -nte, and also the age
otrctue  eansscootat.  Thi  is nobieved only nfterfertility rates            llXJfATlCN
delie to-i  reInomt booc of ueit st_rprod-oIotene   ebnoedhrlintct
v ghuorto    fumtreicsini   scl.The statbo...ry Ppop-                                  riry ohoob - total    aeaofel      os    uu,sbaotol   tnl
bttiueiceeaestiaied  0  the  ai fthe prjce%oantritc                                 et of al  agsa  tepin    ee   nop--etges of repeoIoc Pra-y
o,f thc population In the yeur 200, ad the rute of deolite of fertility                    tohoo-ag    ooalos   osly ipolude- obildre   ged 6-11 your  but
rate  orpi-nemet 1-1.                                                                     ndjonted for diffocen  len. tho  fpiapeoain;frc tiout
leesttr      nr   ooltsisrahd- The year n.. stationar  popontic                              _no__su  educati on   crs etay e--ed 100 Pe-cet  jo,o   o    p,pils'
tier has bes_nbd                                                                           r  tels or  b_o  tbt offioial uchcl age.
population  lenuity                                                 Secon~daysho 1     -        - ttl nend femle - Conptird no t.1; oc; 20:o-nr
Pru  A.-5i-year p          P.,ui    per    ...r iimtcr (100 h-eotars) of           edoctioeqie atlot   fu   er   fapoe    rao                          t  oroI.t
ttal  ae                                                                                    rcdsdtea    nnitl  ct tenbertraining i-st-.ti-.,,  cc- P.c.t
Pe kn.h. agri_olt_rl laud - Coupted as nbe  for, ageo-tural land                        ocoaly of 12 to :7 y--oo  ae  oorrep-odsneco-               o   e   o-etli
PIo'luio I- lrot            (ecet  - Ziiidrc  (0-il year),  nrbing-age                      coontica  ncorolitat   (e--t of  ooodry     Poti-ns  cuttic .tiocI- ld
4-tiyan)4      n  retre   (5yasncv)opeentages of sld-fer                                   technical, Isiod-trisi, or othr p-ogra        h, shi  op-erto itdvp-od-tIy  ct
Vpossliioe; 1p6o, 1970, and 1977 datu.                                                      dIparta-tu Of --cinoaf  inutitutions.
pouainGrowh Oats                totalt  - t.L ojA-l geceth eaten of totn1 mid-         oPuil-t-nher  ratio      riay   ntue       yi    - Potul otdot,to   noid
yer  opiti-   6r 19590-1009l~c-7o, an  19104~7.                                          primay adocstylvl   iie   ytneoo   eocr   otecro
P ..ulti,ot  irrth Bate (erce-t) - ombn-  Annual groth rates of urban                          spoig  coo
popu1stInec foe 1950-h0, 1960-7,- and 1970-75.                                            Adultlieayrt (coet- Lit-etiendolto  (tile  to r... dod s,ito) s
erode Bith  Pts  (e  th-oad  - Annul Ire- binto  Per tbooaand of mid-                          arretg ofoaldutpoPolotico. aged lb   -I poon   nd-0r.
yea  pooluins  100,  97,-ad 1977 data.
i-rod  leathOte_  rIthoosand) - Aoo-I detto~ per th-nsnd of oid-y-u                     fONilMTofIlls
populatiot; 1 60, 19,70, and 1977 dntn.                                                              ..cteSon (c  thcor      oulto)-P""ntor " o  ounpiocoo                  r
dec00  Peprooctiot  intehoerago  noner of dnagtcraotu   ili bra                ortngio  tir vight por ot;rld-o aniuanoe, honco-  nod sitlot
iste    _ora  rep,-duti   pvrid ifol  rp-ri-ce  presct ag-                               chiole-
,p-cifio  fertility rat-t;  -noaly flce-ou   -ve9ge  endbg is ip60,                      m%d.pvceio-ro  )Pvr thouoan M p2polstioo) - All types of reci-tro  f-r cud
1971, and 1975.                                                                            rodatn to genc-a  poilo  Perthou-ad of poponti..; coo lde, coicIr..vd
faaly   lsnig- hootoa  dAstia  (thouads) - hoA-,           ue    frsvceioutioadi  yasser0,rto                                                        fmb ct   u
u-cptor  of birth-otnIrl derto-  undr  nupicen  fstos  family                             cfet   aatrrott poto  sty tot iv oo-p-rtil  door m-ioo.t                    r
planning progrun.                                                   a~~~~~~~~~bolisihd licr-ing.
Finaly  Pannig  -  sers(erent  f orird  soen) - fereotago of macied              TVORheccivers  (~per thou-un   poonitti-t) - cc coo ice-  i- icon-o-t t, oc-c-t
Ine   f cild-ern ag  (1-h   nan   ah   0   it-oto    ciospbl   o   huadcrlanO    oldoolotc   7    -cico-  iocco--tr1,
tonlmrIed ooen It saeg  grop.                                                        and  s yea s ale  registration  of fTV sets  t    toff-ct.
Nternae    iruSto(ertosn   o?lto                       - oho  theorrg  ccco         nto
P00  bI  570111                                                                         of'nl   eerlitrs  oopp *deir   s1peidclpblicabos
Thil9971fN~ilUPoouction  per  Caplin(1dg9-71-i0( - Iden of pee capita          do..oted primaily to rodiug groeral neso.  Ot is -o-ide-o to Or  doily'
annual productios  f all food coaoduisn. Prodootios roloden nerd and       ifit noprars on lrat  four times usero
fedadin on  aeoda.   yea_ ass   C-dtitnsnre   peary-  uodo                         cinem   Annua  Att-deeprCpt  oefa     ae   0  i    ubrfint
(eg.suaran  instead of sugar  oh ich ar doibeadooao ret                               oddrngtyya,iouigaaln   tour d,e.inin nec   ntd nil 
(e..cffer ad tenae  nloe)   Ag-gregte prodootios of e-h --utry                         cli
is based on ationa   vrg  proucrpricewiha
fee  capita   upyofclre   (pe-cetof             Irequiremtt) - C-oputod fesm         LABOR FORCE
Per day.  AcailabtLe supPlies coapri- doasti  prcduetioo., iports  es                   fre   n  onapo.dh tleoidicog hous-i-, stud_tis  cto. fofoti-ts:
etprto, and  bhong-ais,stoob.  Net supplie eI      o lo.de   io   feed, seeds           isvroscutries areto  -op-brtb.
quat Itie  use d in food Proresslg, and losses It distrinotio. Reoulee-               Peas Is   eront)  - Ifmlejice foc  as. percentage of total labor force
met -er simated by fOb basd  ns physii        Iia  erdn foroeaI                                                 ar -force bn  ariss, foretry, hurtingan
antIvity an  hath cuoseid-ring evro           tlte-per.t-r, body -eights,               fibntnprrtg    f total  oor force.
ag  ad  ced istri butions of popointi' on  ad allosiog 10 percet for                  Itid,srvnepei(-lalbor- rs II            n .iolg    osnoio,ccfring  to,d
-nttent ho...ehnld 1-ol.                                                                e19riyaerndgao an percntge of totL-ib-r fcrIe
capitaset auply offood pr day.Sri suply offs   ndfsda                           iiyeten ar oputed a  total, ae,ad fr-al  lubor fr-e as pee-
abov.-  hequiemeats for all  -ottris  established b7XIiSPh proide for a                 ontges of total,  ale and femle populaticeo  all  ag1en-eap-ticeiy;
msmmalaeeof 60 gram   of total proteis pee day and 20 gram   of               190. 190,ad 1975 dntn.  Thes  ar  1100~ paticipetic. rtes rflection
anima  sa   os   rtin   fab1   rassol   eainlpoen                                        g-sen sirontur  of the popoltio, and long tine trn.II               eetiae
Theeta dard  arr lowe  than th...f 75 grams of tntnl pentein nid                    ar  fomntional.sucn
23 gram  of animal prott as an average for the ecld, proposed by eiAo                 Reat        eeaasbti  - Ptio of popu.int cooder 15 nod 61 and oIe  to
Is the Thir  Word Food Ourcy.                                                           the lborfore i  ag   ru   f 1)-Al year.
per  canita' prtein  supl fo   a-Ima   and pals  - Prote,i  supply of food
derived fro  animalsIad pulses Is gras pr dyp.                                      lEshE  DInTnIIiTIIU
Chitld (ages 1-A)  ksrtality   ae(r thouad-Ana   etsprtosn                                  ecnaeo   rct    nos(ohi  ah  an0 kitd( - Pecei-d by riobest
In age group 1-h year, to childre  in this age group; forms dvl                              prat  rihst"           eret  poet   20 perost,adpoetopret
opin,g coutries data derived from Life tables-                                              fhoshls
Ldfr  tUpet-go  at Birth  (Yeaa) - A-srge sober of year  nf life                          Bstimaid  Aslt    tet    aaeIoi(o   e   aia                         ra    n   ua 
rmlissng et birth; 1906, 1911, and 19ff. data.                                          Abmulute povety iesem  leve  na tha   aoeleslhm                 aio       itn
Infat  W.trtaity Pate  (per tbcaad) - Aensul deaths of infats under one                     nutritionally adequate d1iet Plus easetiea  toe-food  -eqo-mts is not
Year of age per thousad live births.                                                       aff.rdal.,
saf  mater supply (ie1u4es treated surfC_   aters  -r untreted ht                         psrsomal in.-m  sf the noatry. Urban level Is d-ri-d from  the rural leer
uoutmatdeter urn  as that Aro  protected  oreblsle, springs,                      aith adjustmet fnr higher cost of lite         Is urban aren.-
and sanitary ails) as p-retaes.  of their  epet    papulatinm .                       In   Rslmted   pnssatr   Sale  Abs-1ut   PvryLOe-   level  (rroet)  - orta  and
ma,sbam area a Vbslie featatl. er standpest lsatad ant mere than                         rua       ees   fpptain(ra   n                  ura I ho ar     mbs te poor0
000 meters fro   a has  ma  he *-esidrod  -n  si.n aithia rsassMale
treese of that bosse.  I. rualara  re-asusla aeess  -nUd I.V
thatth   -osaf  nr    "rs  of the household dn sot have t. spad a                                                                   csnad Social Dt. picielne
disproportionte part of the dW In fethiag tha familys eater amds                                                             got-nIc  nAlysis sad Prjecti-n  Depart-rt
August 1979



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
ALGERIA                                                          ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                          Projected 1/                  Growth Rates                    1978
1973       1975       1977      1978        1979      1984      1989        1974   1978   1980  1985   Share of GDP
1977   1979   1984  1989          (5)
A.  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(DA millions: 1974 constant prices)
1.   Gross domestic product                   50,140    54,002    63,500   69,729          75,714   103,566  148,244        6.1    8.6    6.5   7.4          100.0
2.   Gains from terms of trade               -11,134    -3,395    -2,888   -5,219             498    14,056   21,859          .       .      .      .         -7.5
3.   Gross domestic income (1+2)              39,006      50,607    60,612   64,510        76,212   117,622  170,103    11.7   18.1    9.1   7.7              92.5
4.   Imports                                   14,500    22,553    26,425   27,108         28,168    38,838   51,057    16.9    3.9    6.6   5.6              38.8
5.   Exports - volume                         22,755    20,162    21,933   23,132          24,476    26,094   29,864        0.4    5.8    1.3   2.7           33.2
6.   Exports - IT adjusted                    11,621      16,767    19,045   17,911        24,974    40,149   51,723    11.4   38.4   10.0   5.2              25.7
7.   Resource gap - TT adjusted (4-6)           2,879      5,786      7,380    9,196        3,194    -1,311       -666        .       .      .                13.1
8.   Total Consumption                         26,090    31,976      38,687   41,467       45,668    69,880  109,046    12.3   10.1    8.9   9.3              59.5
Public consumption                 5,390      6,666      9,370      8,480       9,870     15,555   24,306    12.0   16.4    9.5   9.3             12.2
Private consumption               20,700    25,310    29,317   32,987          35,798     54,325   84,740    12.4    8.5    8.7   9.3             47.3
9.   Total investment                          15,795    24,417    29,305   32,239         33,738    46,431   60,391    16.7    4.6    6.6   5.4              46.1
tixed investment                  13,830    21,087    27,630   31,760          32,411    43,700   59,000    18.6    2.0    6.2   6.2              45.5
10.  National savings                         13,631      18,881    21,368   21,948        28,985    45,525   58,412    11.9   32.1    9.5   5.1              31.4
11.  Domestic savings                         12,916      18,631    21,925   23,041        30,544    47,741   61,057    14.1   32.6    9.4   5.0              33.0
12.  GDP at curr. prices (US$ millions)        8,640      14,287    19,533   24,659        32,243    80,023  159,289    22.6   31.0   19.9  14.8
13.  Fixed invest. at cvrr. pr. (US$ Mln.) 3,137           6,205      9,354   12,360       14,300    30,200   55,073       31.4   16.0   16.1  12.8
14.  Fixed investment/GDP (current)              36.3       43.4       47.8      50.1        44.3       37.7      34.4
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT
(Distribution in percentages; 1974 constant prices)
1.   Agriculture                                  6.6        8.5        6.2       6.1         5.8        4.8        4.0
2.   Hydrocarbons                                40.7       34.5       33.4      33.2        32.3       24.4       17.3
3.   Other Industry                              21.0       25.4       28.5      29.9        30.1        34.5      37.4
4.   Services                                    31.7       31.6       31.9      30.8        31.8        36.3     41.3
5.   Non-hydrocarbon output                      59.3       65.5       66.6      66.8        67.7        75.6      82.7
C.   PRICES  (1974-100 in US dollars)
1.   Exporu  price index (incl. NFS)             39.6      102.0      121.0    119.7        178.2      407.0    622.1        32.2  48.9   18.0   8.9
2.   Import price index (incl. NFS)              79.7      122.5      139.4    154.6        174.7      264.4    359.2        15.0  13.0    8.7   6.3
3.   Terms of trade index                        49.7       83.3       86.8      77.4        99.4      153.9    173.4        15.0  28.4    8.6   2.4
4.   GOP deflator (in dinars)                    72.4      110.7      130.6    139.4        168.0       297.7    414.0       15.9  20.5   12.1   6.8
Hydrocarbon value added deflator         35.3       94.2      114.3    113.3        172.3       409.5    669.6       34.1  52.0   18.9  10.3
5.   Average exchange rate                        3.959      3.949      4.147    3.966        3.853
D.   SELECTED INDICATORS
(Compuited at 1974 constant prices)        1974-77   1978-79   1980-84   1985-89
1.   ICOR 2/                                        3.5        2.6        4.5       4.7
1.1   ICOR non-hydrocarbon economy            4.5        4.5        6.2        4.9
2.   Total import elasticity                        2.77       0.45       1.02      0.77
2.1   Non-capital import elasticity 2/    1.33           0.55        0.94      0.69
3.   Average national savings rate/CDY             38.0       36.2       40.0      35.6
4.   Marginal national savings rate/GDY            35.8       60.1       39.8      24.6
5.   Imports/GDY                                   41.2       39.2       34.0      31.1
6.   Investment/GDY                                45.9       46.9       41.0      36.5
7.   Resource gap/GOY                               6.7        8.8       -1.0      -0.8
E.   PUBLIC FINANCE  (Central Government)
aSv of COP at current prices)
1973       1975       1977      1978        1979
1.   Current revenue                               32.1       44.8       43.5      39.4        39.0
1.1 Hydrocarbon revenue                      12.9       23.9        22.2      17.8        21.7
2.   Current expenditure                           18.8       22.7       18.7      17.9         15.7
3.   Government savings                            13.3       22.1       24.8      21.5         23.3
4.   Capital expenditure                           10.8       10.0       13.1      12.8         11.7
5.   Loans and advances (net)                      12.1       21.9       24.2      24.4         23.7
6.   Overall treasury balance                       3.7       -7.2       -7.5    -10.0         -5.6
F.   LABOR FORCE (in thousands)
1966       1977 4/   1979 4/
1.   Agricultural, total                           1,270      1,040      1,DOO
- permanently employed                        (450)        570        590
- seasonally employed                          (820)       470        410
- percentage of underemplnyed                    65         45         41
2.   Non-agricultural, total                       1,180      2,385      2,711
- active                                       (860)    1,900       2,282
-  -nemployed                                  (320)       485        429
- percentage of unemployed                       27         20         16
1/   StafF estimates.                                                                            .  not applicable                                 EMENA CPIIE
2/   Computed to GOY with one year lag between investment and output.                            -  nil or less than half of unit shown            May 1980.
3/   To non-hydrocarbon GDP                                                                      .. not projected
4/   Based on the 1977 Population Census, prelimirary.



- 24 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                                ANNEX I
(Millions of US dollars;  current prices)                                                 Page 5 of 6
Actual                                           Projected 1/
1969      1973      1974       1975      1976        1977  1978        1979        198C       1982         1984        1989
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Exports (including NFS)                      1,010     2,016      4,935     4,869      5,569     6,331  6,806      10,437      14,291      19,958      25,401      44,444
2. Imports (including NFS)                      1,225     2,712    4,477       6,598      6,432     8,475  9,960    11,772        14,396      19,347      24,571      43,871
3. Resource Balance                              -215       -696       458   -1,729        -863   -2,144 -3,154    -1,335           -105         611          830        573
4. Net factor service income                      -62        112        87         38      -107      -206   -429         -670       -895      -1,180      -1,402      -2,229
1. Interest payments                           -11       -83      -218       -235      -381       -454   -604        -944      -1,219     -1,539       -1,772     -2,628
2. Interest receipts                            25        20        148        72        83         84      68          99        148         220         305         590
3. Dir-et Investment income                   -241         -          -         1          2         1    -15         -20         -24         -35         -50         104
4. Workers' remittances                        166       226        202       265       254        246     277         305        332         356         356         356
5. Other factor services (net)                  -1       -51       -45        -65       -65        -83   -155        -110        -132       -182         -241         443
5. Current transfers (net)                         48         89        43         32        41        28      41          50          50         50           50          50
6. Balance on current account                    -229      -495        588   -1,659        -929   -2,322 -3,542       -1,955        -950         519         -522     -1,606
7. Private direct investment                       41         51       360        97        179       173    136          150        150         160          180        200
8. Official capital grants                          23       -39      -427          -         -         -        -          6           6          8            8          10
Public M&LT loans
9. Disbursements                                   87     1,597        631     1,705     2,157      2,667  4,702       3,788       3,288       3,669       4,048       7,006
10. Amortization                                   -54      -234       -467      -433       -517      -714 -1,071       -1,389     -2,086      -2,779      -3,143      _4,561
11. Net disbursements                               33     1,363        164    1,272       1,640     1,950  3,631        2,399      1,202        -890      -1,905       2,445
16. Short-term capital                                -         -         -          -         -          -       -          -           -          -            -           -
17. Capital transactions n.e.i.                     111      -277      -525         72      -262      -143     270           -           -          -            -           -
18. Changes in reserves (- = increases)              21      -603      -160        218      -628       342   -495         -600       -408        -539         -571     -1,049
19. Net foreign exchange reserves (minus           271        865    1,080        842      1,385     1,411  2,000        2,600      3,009       4,043       5,135       9,169
gold)
B. GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
1. Official grants                                 23          3         -         -          -         -       -
2. Total public M5&LT loans                         ..    2,305       1,453     4,125    2,642      2,543  4,262
2.1  IBRD                                        -        25         158        48      151        170    172
2.3  Other multilateral                         ..         -           -         -         -         -       -
2.4  Governments                                ..       375         169       244      244        193       -
2.5  of shich centrally planned                 ..       (4)         (27)     (112)       (1)      (10)      -
2.6  Suppliers                                  ..       290        666    2,116    1,002          925  2,000
2.7  Financial institutions                     ..    1,544          399    1,717    1,245      1,187  2,030
2.8  Bonds                                      . .       71          61         -         -        68      60
C.  MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant element of total commitments               ..       6.1       16.8      10.5        6.8        8.4        5.9
2. Average interest (percent)                      ..        8.9        6.7       7.7        8.2        7.8        8.3
3. Average maturity 'years)                         ..      14.1       13.1      10.4        9.8        9.3        8.9
1/  Staff Estimates                                                                             -  Nil or less than half of unit shown.
Not available.
EMENA CP 118
May 1980.



- 25 -
ALGERIA                                                                                                  ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                                     Prelim.
1969      1973      1974        1975      1976      1977                1978
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1. Total debt outstanding
(DOD; end of period)                   678    2,932       3,304      4,477       5,855   8,37B               13,167
2. Including undisbursed                 1,210    4,916      6,002       9,591     11,440  15,053                20,093
3. Public debt service                      65       317        685        668        898   1,168                 1,675
1. Interest                              11        83       218         235        381      454                  604
B. DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1. Debt service ratio                     6.4       15.7       13.9       13.7       16.1      18.4               24.6
2. Debt service and direct
investment income ratio                ..       15.7      13.9       13.7        16.1     18.4               24.9
3. Debt service/GDP                       1.6        3.6        5.5        4.6        5.4       6.0                6.7
4. Public debt service/
Government revenue                   5.4        11.4      12.2       10.4        13.9    13.7                17.2
5. Total DOD/GDP                         16.1       33.7       26.4       31.1       35.5    42.1                 53.4
C. TERMS (percentage)
1. Interest on total DOD/
total DOD 1/                         2.3         5.6       7.4        7.1         8.5      7.8                 7.2
2. Total debt service/total
DO  1/                             13.7        21.3      23.4       20.2        20.1     19.9                20.0
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR
M&LT DEBT (percentage)
1. Gross disbursements/imports
(including NFS)                       7.1      58.9       14.1       25.8       33.5      31.5                51.2
2. Net transfer/imports
(including NFS)                       1.8      47.2       -1.2       15.7        19.6     15.0                 34.4
3. Net transfer/gross
disbursements                        25.3      80.2       -8.6       60.8        58.4    47.6                 67.7
E. EXPOSURE (percentage)
1. IBRD disbursements/Total
disbursements                         -         -          0.3        2.2         2.6      2.0                  1.0
2. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                      2.7       0.3        0.2        0.8         1.5      1.7                 1.4
3. IBRD debt service/Total
debt service                          5.5        1.2       0.5        1.3         0.8      0.8                  1.2
F. EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                  Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1978
(millions of US dollars)                                         Amount          Percent
1. I8RD                                                            187              1.4
2. Other multilateral                                                4               -
3. Governments                                                   1,562             11.9
4. Suppliers                                                     3,529             26.8
5. Financial institutions                                        7,682             58.3
6. Bonds                                                           203              1.5
7. Total public M&LT debt                                       13,167            100.0
8. Total public M&LT debt
including undisbursed                                     20,093            152.6
G. DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1979-1983/Total DOD end of 1978 (percent):   123
1/ DOD at the end of previous year.               - Nil or less than half of unit shown                           EMENA CPIIB
Not available                                                 May 1980



- 26 -                                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STAIUS OF BANK GRDUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENI OF BANK LDANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of May 31, 1980)
Loan or
Credit
Number        Year    Borrower                          Purpose        Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed*                                            138.4
995 AL        1974     The Democratic and               Ports          70.0                 20.34
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL        1974     Railways-SNTF                    Railways       49.0                  6.82
1158 AL       1975     Banque Algdrienne                Industrial   40.0                   18.40
de Developpement                Credit
1159 AL       1975     The Democratic and               Tech.Asst.    8.0                    4.64
Popular Republic of             Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL       1976     Socidtd Nationale                SNMC           46.0                 24.89
des Mat6riaux de                Expansion
Construction
1209 AL       1976     The Democratic and               Education      47.0                 42.10
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL       1976     Power-SONELGAZ                   Power          57.5                  7.52
1378 AL       1977     The Democratic and               Education      48.5                 48.50
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL       1977     The Democratic and               Highways       41.5                 40.84
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL       1977     The Democratic and               Ports          80.0                 79.73
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL       1978     The Democratic and               Sewerage       82.0                 81.54
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL       1978     The Democratic and               Education      90.0                 88.47
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1683 AL       1979     The Democratic and              Highways    126.0                   126.00
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1739 AL 2/  1979       Office National des              Meat In-       42.0                 42.00
Aliments du Betail              dustry
(ONAB)
5-16 AL 1/  1979       Societe Nationale                Tech.Assist. 20.0                   20.00
de Constr. Metal.
5-17 AL 2/  1980       The Democratic and               Water Sup.    5.0                    5.O0
Popular Republic of             Engineering
Algeria
1802 AL 2/  1980       The Democratic and               Bas Cheliff   8.0                    8.00
Popular Republic of             Irrigation
Algeria
1803 AL 2/  198D       The Democratic and               Education      87.0                 87.00
Popular Republic of
Algeria
TOTAL                                                   1085.9*               751.79
of which has been repaid                          98.4
Total now outstanding                                    987.5
Amount sold                              34.81
of which has been repaid           34.81
Total now held by Bank                                   987.5
Total undiabursed                                                             751.79
*   Includes three loans fully disbursed prior to 1973 ($80.5 million) and three since
1973 ($57.9 million).
y   Not yet signed.
2/ Not yet effective
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 995-AL  Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date:  February 10, 1975; Closing Date:  (Original) June 30,
1978; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project is physically completed. Due to claims still pending,
disbursements are behind schedule; the Government is expected to request an
extension of the Closing Date to December 1980 to permit full disbursement
from the loan account. The physical transfer of assets from SONATRACH to ONP
is expected by end June; all aspects of this transfer should be completed
by year end.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date:  November 11, 1974; Closing Date:  (Original) December 31,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabili.tation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement has
proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, are still in
progress and the Closing Date has been extended to permit their completion.
The Bank is considering the Government's request to utilize the undisbursed
balance of about $4 million to finance feasibility and engineering studies for
new line construction and major reconstructions proposed under SNTF's 1980-84
development program.
Loan 1158-AL  Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Although somewhat behind appraisal schedule, disbursements are
progressing satisfactorily. However, $3.2 million remain uncommitted, the
deadline for submission of subprojects has lapsed and this amount will either
be reallocated or cancelled. Performance remains disappointing as regards
institutional arrangements for BAD to participate as a decision-maker in the
investment decision process, the improvement of which was an important project
objective. At the request, and with the full cooperation, of the Government,
the Bank is currently engaged in a study of the Algerian financial system, the
recommendations of which may contribute to remedy the present situation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project includes four subprojects for credit, extension and the
development of the mountain and steppe regions. The credit subproject has
been completed. The extension subproject is now proceeding satisfactorily
following important initial delays. The first phase of studies on the mountain
subproject has been completed and the preparation of the second phase is now
starting. Consultants are mobilizing to start work on the steppe subproject.
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily. Arrangements for technical
assistance are being made to compensate for delays in recruiting and training
staff for plant operations. Capital costs are expected to be about 20% higher
than anticipated but financing is assured. Important measures have been taken
to restore SNMC's financial viability. The SNC technical assistance program
is not running effectively and the Government has been requested to take
appropriate action.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily although
disbursements are behind schedule. Following initial delays in preparation of
construction documents for Phase I due to administrative problems, construction
of INELEC, the National Institute of Electricity and Electronics, started in
December 1979; bidding procedures for Phase II are underway. Equipment
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the technical
assistance program is also proceeding satisfactorily, although about one year
behind schedule.
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project; US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall physical progress is satisfactory. Procure-
ment for substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the
Bank, but some delays have occurred in construction. As a result of a recent
tariff increase and a decision to restructure SONELGAZ's debt, that company's
financial situation has improved.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project started well but has fallen over 3 years behind sched-
ule due mainly to changes in personnel at the Ministries of Education and



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Labor at the end of 1977 and a prolonged bidding period for civil works for
the technicums. A decision on the award of contract is expected shortly.
The Ministry of Labor decided in March 1979 to proceed with implementation of
the two vocational training centers under ICB (also 3 years behind schedule),
and bidding documents are expected to be issued imminently. A Government
request to extend the Closing Date is awaited.
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Start of implementation was delayed, due mainly to an unsuccessful
first round of bidding for the sole construction component. Bid evaluation on
the second round of bidding was completed in October 1979 and the $95 million
contract awarded. Works started in January 1980, and are expected to be
completed by end 1982, about one year and a half later than scheduled at
appraisal. The contract with consultants to help in construction supervision
has been awarded. Training of maintenance personnel, both in Algeria and
abroad, started early in 1979. The loan is now fully committed.
Loan 1427-AL Jijel Port Project: US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project is two and a half years behind schedule due to delays in
bid evaluation and in the construction of the steel complex which the port is
to serve. The Government has informed the Bank that it is reassessing the
size and timing of the steel complex within the context of the preparation of
the 1980-84 Development Plan and will inform the Bank as soon as the final
decision has been taken. This is expected soon. A reappraisal may be necessary
if there is a significant departure from initial plans. Meanwhile, the
Government has agreed to defer the award of contract for port construction
pending the final decision on the steel complex.
Loan 1545-AL First Sewerage Project: US$82 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: November 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of combined sewer inter-
ceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance
to the Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), with a view to
creating a sound institutional basis for its operations and establishing new
water tariffs to enable SEDAL to ensure its financial independence. Project
implementation, after some delay partly due to the changes in Government,
is now underway. Engineering consultants for project construction have been
appointed, and the management consultants to SEDAL have submitted a first
draft report.



-- 30 -                 ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Loan 1595-AL Fourth Education Project: US$90 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: February 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily for all project
institutes: the mechanical engineering institutes (NIME and NIMET), the
teacher training school for technicums (ENSEP), and the two institutes for
vocational instructor training (IVITs) in Annaba and Setif. Construction on
ENSEP started in October 1979 and for NIME and NIMET is expected to start in
September 1980. Implementation of equipment procurement and the technical
assistance program is satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Loan 1683-AL Third Highway Project: US$126 million, Loan of May 16, 1979;
Effective Date: September 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is proceeding on schedule. Contracts for the
maintenance program were approved by the Bank in January 1980. Bids for the
first tranche of the pavement strengthening program have been received and
contract award is expected shortly. The contract for the construction of the
La Chiffa-Berrouaghia road section has been awarded. Training of maintenance
personnel will start in September 1980. The loan is 90 percent committed.
Loan 1739-AL Meat Industry Project: US$42 million, Loan of October 3, 1979;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: April 30, 1984.
A project team has been put together and a project director nominated.
Prior to effectiveness, the sites for the meat complexes, which have been
identified, have to be acquired and consultants to assist ONAB in preparing
the bid documents selected. The effectiveness date is currently set at
July 31, 1980.
Loan S-17-AL Water Supply Engineering Project: US$5 million, Loan of
February 14, 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Contract award for the studies included under the project is ex-
pected by mid-1980.
Loan 1802-AL Bas Cheliff Irrigation I Project: US$8 million, Loan of
March 26, 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Tendering is underway on schedule.
Loan 1803-AL Fifth Education Project: US$87 million, Loan of
March 26, 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 30, 1984.
Bidding documents are being prepared and are scheduled to be
advertised and issued during the second half of 1980.



-31-                       ANNEX III
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Government to prepare          Two years (December 1977-
the project:                                   December 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:           Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
(c)  Project first identified:                    October 1978
(d)  Bank preparation mission:                     October 1979
(e)  Appraisal mission:                           January 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                  May 1980
(g)  Planned effectiveness date:                  November 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
(i)  the Government will:  (a) carry out the maintenance program accord-
ing to detailed physical targets and budget appropriations consis-
tent with overall budget allocations agreed with the Bank and submit
the former to the Bank annually starting in April 1981 for review
and comment; (b) renew maintenance equipment in a timely manner; and
(c) provide additional personnel, all as needed to carry out a
second tranche of the program (para. 41);
(ii) sufficient numbers of trainees will be trained as instructors
to ensure the continuation of the maintenance training program
(para. 44);
(iii) documents verifying the technical and economic feasibility of the
sections proposed for rehabilitation under the pavement strengthen-
ing program, prepared according to agreed criteria and procedures,
would be submitted for Bank approval prior to tendering of the
works (para. 42); and
(iv) the project completion report would include a detailed analysis
of the distribution of the economic benefits resulting from the
reconstruction of the NR 9 (para. 46).






BRD 12478R2
'/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR I,
N.                                                                                         S
3Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N,                                                             AS  oe  .j1   Z 
<I          /         N. t           \                              S //                     I       \         -'
,  _'   S   \<>      <                    <         i  (  '                 9         .   \  <9t~~~~~~~~~~~~7~gg  i ,,
N  ~~~~~~~~UNS
TRANSPORTATION    N                                                                !AA~7
INFRASTRUCTURE                        N                                                     hSRRRR 
RAIN -OTS                        K~                                                ~>
_____T-WN ATIONAL RA-RST'N
+-                                                                                                              NIRGRERE ALWYSI
SEQASAYRY A REORTS                         -        ~ AI 
1.7-ATI-IL ~        -A~                             N
(I \X HJL        ,
(   \                      ,, JA..NRAINAUS AREAS   __                         J           -t
\MAURTANA>\~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          ~~~~~~ ,  I  .: W,A ,  5 , z
TRANSPORTIAA  ASARION                 EIOERR        XI                      i-           sS                    
INFRASTRUCTURE___________________                            (RAARREA6    .                                 






'S                                                                                                                                                                                                      -i             -  _ __    _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _         ____       ____      ____       ___       _                                       ln7- - RD 139979
*    PROPOn'ESFOSPAEHVSRESSCSOSi _= 
IRA+RIGttRER \ ROADNETW#ORK   ;   =   5-   --
UK    aanTS$rS,,ES                                                                                                                                                          LeR S                                -                 t'r' ,                                                fE S'   S"D  _
45575                                                                                                                                                    5        >55                                                                                  _ 
Tn   fGr=,w  9  5bi  $\  /  W  t2~~~~~~~ rGC _ t DA S m n-vm , , ' , \ .. t u M n [ Me h ~~-a '.,,,,55                                                                          .               "         SE,                                                            S                      5555,U _
<   ,   ; ro a2$ X x   W           Q                                  X                                    x            a  5<                 a i                                                                              ;   S                                                 et        a>k   2      z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5sF  5555S  EE SSS5L5O~.
\5-535$[                                                                                  "           <         .                   '0                  E25                                       -      I            SS   O',           
Ta) ES5LaE                                                                                                                                   55551 0s, _s  _1), /                 avd<                                                                                                             ~~)                         .Jw-rr
    5SSMSa5E 0\ \~j    E5SsS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .                               .15                           S
-5 s E S S a 5 ' 5 5 4 E                                                                   2-                                       " ' '            -       555555                                        -      f  a-w     k be v 9 w   u559w555{#               ,                            ES -'                                 "   5\_S
I r 4P Or l  r an rm  /81 cAw e r/le v+ud/mI S                                            -sR            s            m fin eito  -  W 55555555                                                          -         T          or rSEr  wPVf   d|s



