Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16824
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 3154-PNG)
June 30, 1997
Papua New Guinea & Pacific Islands Division
East Asia III Department
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kina (K)
Parity: K 1 = US$ 0.716 May 30,1997
Equivalency of I US$ in K since 1989
(Annual Average)
1989     0.84                1993      0.99
1990     0.95                1994      1.00*
1991     0.95                1995      1.28
1992     0.97                1996      1.32
* the Kina was devalued by 10% on September 30, 1994 and floated on October 10, 1994
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL          - Direct exchange lines
DOF          - Department of Finance
DFP         - Department of Finance and Planning
GRA         - Gazelle Restoration Authority
IBRD        - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         - International Competitive Bidding
K           - Kina
MIS         - Management Information System
OAG         - Office of the Auditor General
OR          - Operating Ratio
PCR         - Project Completion Report
PNG         - Papua New Guinea
PPAR        - Project Performance Audit Report
PPF         - Project Preparation Facility
PPO         - Project Program Office
PTC         - Post and Telecommunications Corporation
ROR         - Rate of Return
RWL         - Revenue per Working Line
SOE         - Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:               J. M. Severino
Director:                     Marianne Haug
Division Chief:               Richard A. Calkins
Staff Member:                 R. Peter Wright



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summn ary ..........................................................i
Part I:  Project Implementation Assessment .1
A. Background and Project Objectives .1
B. Sector Reform, Regulation and Privatization.                                                           3
C. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                                     3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project and Implementation Record                                          8
E. Project Benefits and Sustainability.                                                                   9
F. Bank's Performance .10
G. Borrower Performance .10
H. Assessment of Outcome .11
I. Key Lessons Leared .11
Part II:       Statistical Tables ........................................................                          13
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .....................................................                  14
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................................                  16
Table 3:   Project Timetable ........................................................                    17
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....    18
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................                          19
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................                      21
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ..................................................                22
Table 8A: Project Costs                         .......................................                  23
Table 8B: Project Financing .........................................................                    24
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                   25
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                  26
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............                                    28
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................                      29
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                      30
Appendices:    ........................................................                                            31
A. Map IBRD 21856
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONSPROJECT
(LOAN N° 3154-PNG)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third
TelecommunicationsProject in The Independent State of Papua New Guinea, for
which Loan 31 54-PNG in the amount of US$ 17.2 million was approved on January 4,
1990 and made effective on September 26, 1990.
The loan had a closing date of June 30, 1996. Final disbursementtook place
on November 6, 1996 at which time a balance of US$ 5,510,540.50 was canceled.
Cofinancing for the Project was provided through suppliers' and export financing for
the procurement of telecommunications switching and transmission equipment.
The ICR was prepared by R. Peter Wright of the Telecommunicationsand
Informatics Division (IENTI) and reviewed by Stuart Whitehead (EA3PI); Pirouz
Hamidian-Rad (EA3PI); Richard A. Calkins, Chief, Papua New Guinea and Pacific
Islands Division (EA3PI); James Bond, Chief, Telecommunicationsand Informatics
Division (IENTI); and Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Acting Operations Advisor (EA3DR).
Preparation of this ICR is based on material in the project file. The draft
report was reviewed with the Borrower, and despite the Bank's repeated requests for a
contribution to the report, the borrower's participation was limited to the preparation of
financial tables to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN No. 3154-PNG
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.           The implementation of the Third Telecommunications Project in the
Independent State of Papua New Guinea, which was supported by IBRD Loan 3154-
PNG in the amount of US$ 17.2 million, was under the supervision of the
Government's Department of Finance (DOF)'. Provision was made to on-lend US$
16.25 million to the Post and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC). PTC is a wholly
government-owned corporation, established in 1982, with the exclusive right to provide
all international and domestic telecommunications services in Papua New Guinea. PTC
is also responsible for postal services, maritime radio facilities and radio frequency
management. The Loan was approved on January 4, 1990 and the Loan and Project
Agreements were signed on June 29, 1990. The Loan became effective on September
26, 1990, with the Closing Date for the Loan set for June 30, 1996.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The stated objectives of the project were to: (a) help the Government prepare and
implement appropriate sector policies, regulations and procedures; (b) improve PTC's
institutional efficiency through a training program; and (c) rehabilitate and expand existing
telecommunications facilities. The project was estimated to cost US$ 76 million equivalent
(K 66.2 million), with a foreign cost of US$ 64.6 million at appraisal; including IBRD
financing of US$ 17.2 million, suppliers' and export credits of US$ 16.4 million, and PTC's
contribution of US$ 42.4 million equivalent.
Effective September 1995, the Ministry of Finance and Planning was split - with a new Minister of Planning
appointed and the former planning staff installed as the National Planning Office. This entity assumed
responsibility for relations with the World Bank through the Foreign Aid Management Division (formerly the
Office of International Development Assistance Division). Existing IBRD loans continued to be administered
through the Revenue, Aid and Debt Management Division of the Department of Finance.



ii
3.   Project objectives were modified during implementation to provide funding for
rehabilitation of telecommunications services in Rabaul following the volcanic eruptions of
September 1994 in the Gazelle Peninsula on the Island of East New Britain. The Government
of Papua New Guinea established the Gazelle Restoration Authority (GRA), and, with the
concurrence of the World Bank, reassigned funds, of US$ 25 million (K 30.0 million) from
four existing IBRD loans - including an uncommitted US$ 4.0 million from the Third
Telecommunications Project. An amendment to the Loan agreement to effect this change was
signed on March 23, 1995.
Sector Reform
4.   The project was designed in 1989 when project objectives were consistent with the
traditional public utilities approach in practice at that time - infrastructure development with
institutional development only as deemed necessary to remove identified organizational,
management and operational constraints, and improve the Government institution responsible
for overseeing telecommunications. The policy objectives did not foresee liberalization of the
sector, including the introduction of competition. However, the Government and senior PTC
management began in 1995 a program to repeal existing telecommunications legislation and
introduce new legislation, which became effective January 1, 1997, creating Post PNG, Telikom
PNG, and introducing a regulatory authority. The Bank had only a limited involvement in this
initiative
5.   An attempt to introduce competition in the telecommunications sector was made in May
1994 by licensing a second operator for international and domestic telephony, including cellular
wireless service. However, the process followed was subsequently deemed not to legal, nor
transparent, and the second license was not issued. With the change in legislation in 1997, the
introduction of competition in the telecommunications sector to improve service availability
would now be possible.
Project Achievements and Results
6.   Institutional Objectives. Within the framework of this project, the limited
institutional objectives for the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP), as envisaged
at the time of appraisal, included: technical assistance, training of staff, and the purchase
of minicomputers to review tariffs and monitor PTC's performance and policy
improvements. During project implementation, only about 50% of technical assistance
and training for DFP was completed, with little impact on tariffs, improvement of an
oversight program of PTC or sector policy. PTC institutional objectives included:
training of national engineers and managers; increased commercial and customer-
service orientation and responsiveness to subscribers by reorganizing operations;
improvement of the management structure to address and eliminate weaknesses
identified in the Management Review; and the introduction of a computerized
Management Information System. Of these, only the MIS and reorganization objectives
were achieved, while the remaining objectives were only partly met. The unsatisfactory
overall rating for the project reflects the importance of the institutional objectives and



iii
the very limited accomplishments in this area inspite of the major, increased share of the
Bank Loan which was targeted to it.
7.    Staffproductivity. The telecommunications section of PTC improved its
productivity during project implementation by reducing from 87 staff/i,000 working
lines in 1989 to 48 staff/1,000 working lines in 1995, achieving the target established at
the time of project approval (see Part II, Tables 5 and 6).
8.    Operational targets for telecommunications activities. PTC increased its
switching capacity from 43,518 lines in 1989 to 59,144 lines in 1995 (falling short of its
Project target of 74,500 lines), and the number of working lines increased from 30,993
in 1989 to 43,398 by 1995 (achieving the target). The telephone density (working lines
as percent of population) however, has only marginally improved from 0.9 in 1988 to
about 1.3 in 1995, which is still very low compared to other island countries in the
region. PTC facilities are concentrated in urban areas, with little service to rural areas
other than those provided by private concerns (e.g. mining firms, missions) using high-
frequency (HF) radio systems (more than 3000), with only a few of these connected to
PTC's network. Consolidation of the HF and Coastal radio systems which would
improve the rural service was not achieved.
9.   Implementation schedule. Actual procurement of all equipment, except the HF
and coastal radio systems consolidation, occurred and was available for service
relatively on schedule. The funding for the six sub-projects, which were to be financed
under the project, was mobilized by PTC through suppliers' credits because the PTC
found the Bank's ICB process inappropriate in this case (see Part 1, Paragraphs 24). The
objectives of expansion and modernization of the network, on balance, were met (see
Part II, Table 5). Two phases out of three of the GRA restoration program were
completed.
10.   Objectives of service quality. The expansion was accompanied by a renovation
of the outside plant network in Port Moresby. As a result, the quality of service
improved, as faults/100 working lines per month declined from more than 15 in 1992 to
7.5 in 1995. The project target to establish a program to measure and improve fault
clearance to a period of two days was underway and showed improvement until 1994,
then it was radically reduced following the Rabaul disaster.
Implementation Experience and Results
11.   The objectives of the project were not fully achieved. The destruction caused by
the 1994 Rabaul volcanic eruptions in the Gazelle Peninsula necessitated a reallocation
of the uncommitted loan funds. This resulted in the postponement (and ultimate
cancellation) of a part of the institutional development activities, which had fallen
behind as a result of PTC's lack of interest in the reforms.
12.   Government performance at the preparation stage is rated satisfactory, but it
deteriorated shortly after project implementation began. A deteriorating commitment to



iv
the project, mainly caused by the turn over of PTC management, and PTC's reluctance
to follow Bank's ICB procurement procedures, resulted in major delays in
implementing the project and the Project Program Office's (PPO) failing to monitor
compliance with project convenants. The institutional and physical development targets
were also missed. As a result, the project implementation and compliance with
convenants are rated as deficient.
13.   Bank performance in the preparation and approval phase is rated satisfactory.
Bank supervision was, however, fragmented and deficient due primarily to an unusually
high turnover of task managers (five task managers in six years), leading to a lack of
continuous and consistent support to the Borrower.
Project Benefits and Sustainability
14.   Benefits resulting from or associated with the project include: (a) an increase in
the quality and coverage of telecommunications services; and (b) implementation of a
number of the institutional development activities in PTC which improved commercial
operations and customer orientation in service provision. .
15.   The organizational split between post and telecommunications activities and the
creation of the regulatory entity in 1996, while not an objective of the project as such,
will provide the foundation for further commercialization and a climate for privatization
of the sector.
16.   Although the project's physical achievements and the legislative change noted
above provide favorable conditions for project sustainability, overall service coverage
remains low and major issues related to debt assumption and tariff reform remain
outstanding (see Part I, paragraph 33) leading to a rating of uncertain for sustainability.
The project is, therefore judged unsatisfactory in achieving its development objectives
and in its implementation.
Key Findings and Lessons Learned
17.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)   Project implementation and the achievement of its development objectives are
crucially dependent on continuity of staff on both the Borrower and Bank's sides
as well as the frequency of Bank supervision visits and consultations.
(b)   The Borrower's commitment to attaining project objectives and meeting Loan
covenants must be exercised through vesting a PPO with adequate authority and
resources to oversee and take action as required with all project entities.
(c)   The Bank must educate the Borrower on the requirements of the legal covenants
and the implication of non-compliance at the time of project preparation, and must



v
play an active role in assisting the Borrower in resolving problems in meeting such
covenants in a timely fashion.
(d)   The Bank's procurement guidelines requiring ICB for the procurement of
telecommunications equipment may be inappropriate in certain situations -typified
by a small telecommunications entity, which is concerned with multiple
technology compatibility, additional training for a new type of equipment, and
ongoing operation and maintenance costs, rather than solely minimizing initial
capital costs. The appropriate alternative may be to selectively structure the
physical objectives to permit more direct purchases.
(e)   If the Bank wishes to play an active role in assisting the Borrower in evolving
national policy relative to the telecommunications sector, it must provide in a
timely manner relevant information on changes in sector structure and financing
occurring internationally and in the Bank's approach to development assistance
for the sector, and be prepared to commit the required resources for technical
assistance if so requested by the Borrower.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN No. 3154-PNG
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Project Objectives
1.    The implementation of the Third Telecommunications Project in the Independent
State of Papua New Guinea, which was supported by IBRD Loan 3154-PNG in the amount
of US$ 17.2 million, was under the supervision of the Government's Department of
Finance (DOF)'. Provision was made to on-lend US$ 16.25 million to the Post and
Telecommunications Corporation (PTC). PTC is a wholly government-owned corporation,
established in 1982, with the exclusive right to provide all international and domestic
telecommunications services in Papua New Guinea. PTC is also responsible for postal
services, maritime radio facilities and radio frequency management. The Loan and Project
Agreements were signed on June 29, 1990, became effective September 26, 1990, and the
Closing Date for the Loan was June 30, 1996.
2.    Two previous telecommunications projects, IBRD Loan 546-PNG (1968-1972) and
Loan 852-PNG (1973-1977) with a total value of US$ 17.0 million, were for the
construction of telecommunications infrastructure, with limited or no institutional
development objectives. Project Completion Reports (PCR) and Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPAR) considered that both projects had successfully achieved their
objectives of building a telecommunications network in PNG, under difficult geographical
conditions. Changing sector priorities, following independence of Papua New Guinea in
1975, led to the suspension of Bank involvement in the telecommunications sector. The
evident need to increase the telecommunication sector's efficiency through policy reform
and institution building, persuaded the Government in 1988 that there was a need to renew
support to the sector.
3.    The 1978 PCR for the Second Telecommunications Project noted emerging
institutional and development issues, such as the urgency to expand into rural areas and
extend services to district and subdistrict centers, staff development needs resulting from
the process of localization, and the necessity to reduce operating costs and enhancing
efficiency. These concerns were, however, inadequately addressed. In 1987, in response
to a Government request, the Bank prepared a Telecommunications Policy Options paper,
Effective September 1995, the Ministry of Finance and Planning was split - with a new Minister of Planning
appointed and the former planning staff installed as the National Planning Office. This entity assumed
responsibility for relations with the World Bank through the Foreign aid management division (formerly the Office
of International development division). Existing IBRD loans continued to be administered through the Revenue,
aid and debt division of the Department of finance.



2
and later funded, through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF), an independent assessment
of PTC, the 'Network Development and Management Review 1988-1993'. The review
specifically identified four major institutional constraints: (a) vertical integration of PTC's
operations (including motor vehicle, building and machine maintenance functions, and
employee housing that should be outsourced); (b) organizational problems (managing
diverse elements of Posts, Telecommunications and common support functions); (c) lack
of skilled indigenous staff; and (d) the high turnover of expatriate staff.
4.    During the 1989 appraisal for the Third Telecommunications Project, it was found
that the telecommunications sector in Papua New Guinea was limited, with only 0.9
telephone lines per 100 population. Telephone density was very low compared to other
island countries in the region (e.g. Fiji 4.7 and Western Samoa 4.0) and was comparable to
levels of service in other countries with poorly developed telecommunications
infrastructure (Philippines 1.3 and Sri Lanka 0.6). Furthermore, existing facilities of
31,000 lines were concentrated in urban areas - Port Moresby and Lae had about 8% of the
country's population but about 50% of the total lines in service. In rural areas where no
telephone service was available, many businesses (e.g. mining and forestry), government
offices and missions operated private high-frequency (HF) radio systems (over 3,000) or
microwave networks, only a few of these, however, were connected to PTC's network.
Most rural areas had no access to telecommunications of any kind.
5.    The Project was developed to address the identified institutional constraints and to
assist the Government's strategy for the telecommunications sector, with objectives
defined in its 1985 Telecommunications Policy Paper, which was used as a basis to
strengthen DFP, to exercise oversight of PTC, expand access to service, improve the
quality of service to subscribers, and reduce PTC's operating costs. Specific project
objectives were to: (a) help the Government prepare and implement appropriate sector
policies, regulations and procedures; (b) improve PTC's institutional efficiency through a
training program; and (c) rehabilitate and expand existing telecommunications facilities.
6.    Project objectives were modified during implementation to provide infrastructure
funding for rehabilitation of telecommunications services after a natural disaster. As a
result of damage to the District of Rabaul, in the region of the Gazelle Peninsula on the
Island of East New Britain, following the volcanic eruption of September 1994, the
Government of Papua New Guinea established the Gazelle Restoration Authority (GRA)
and, with the concurrence of and assistance from the World Bank, reassigned funds of US$
25 million (K 30.0 million) from four existing IBRD loans - including an uncommitted
US$ 4.0 million from the Third Telecommunications Project to be reserved for
telecommunications restoration costs An amendment to the Loan agreement to effect this
change was signed on March 23, 1995.



3
B. Sector Reform, Regulation and Privatization
7.     The project was designed in 1989 in a monopolistic, public sector ownership
environment. The project objectives were consistent with the traditional public utilities
approach in practice at the time - primarily infrastructure development with only such
institutional development as deemed necessary to remove identified organizational,
management and operational constraints, and to improve the Government institution
responsible for overseeing telecommunications. The policy objectives, at the time of
appraisal, did not foresee liberalization of the sector, the introduction of competition, or
active participation of the private sector in development and operations. However,
beginning in 1993, a constructive dialogue occurred between the Bank, the staff of the
Department of Finance and Planning (DFP) and senior management of PTC that led the
Govemment to reconsider its sector policy in line with the worldwide trend toward
introducing competition and privatization.
8.     The telecommunications sector in Papua New Guinea has been regulated since
1982 by the Post & Telecommunications Act, the Radio Communications Act, and the Post
& Telecommunications Corporations Act. Although the sectoral policy reforms were not
formally part of the project, starting in 1995, Government initiated such reforms which
included, the repeal of the existing legislation and replacing it with new legislation
approved December 24, 1996-the Post PNG Act, the Telikom PNG Act, the PNG
Telecommunications Authority (PANGTEL) Act, and a new Radio Communications Act.
Separation of Post and Telikom under the Companies Act, and the establishment of a
regulatory authority. In an attempt to introduce competition in the telecommunications
sector, the Minister for Information and Communications issued a second license for
international and domestic telephony, including cellular wireless service, to a cartel of
foreign and local investors, but without due regards to legal procedures and transparency2.
This was, however, challenged in court, resulting in the licensee being declared void. With
the recent change in legislation, the introduction of a second operator in the sector will be
possible and would help improve service availability.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives.
Institutional Development
9.     DFP institutional objectives. Within the project framework, DFP was to receive
technical assistance and logistical support to be able to review tariffs imposed by PTC and
monitor PTC's performance, including policy reforms. Consultants were to be engaged in
the initial years of the Project to assist DFP in developing organizational and performance
goals for the operating entity. Unfortunately this did not occur (see tariffs, paragraph 19).
2   The Minister, apparently realizing that his ministerial issuance of the license may not be legal, as Chairman of the
Board of PTC, suspended the senior management and convened a special meeting of the Board of Directors, with
only selected allied associates notified, the sole agenda item to retroactively ratify his issuance of the license
through PTC. The legality of the meeting was challenged by other absent Directors, suspended PTC managers, and
the PTC Workers' Union. The meeting was decreed to be illegally convened, so the action to issue the license was
suspended.



4
Training of staff over the seven-year project cycle was minimal, and the purchase of
computers never occurred, resulting in little or no implementation of the 1985
Telecommunications Policy Paper recommendations. The DFP's oversight capability of
PTC operations also remained deficient.
10.   PTC institutional objectives. The project's institutional objectives for PTC
included: training of national engineers and managers; enhancing commercial and
customer-service orientation and responsiveness to subscribers by reorganizing its
operations to improve the management effectiveness by eliminating weaknesses identified
in the Management Review; and the introduction of a computerized Management
Information system (MIS). This component of the loan amounted to US$ 5.4 million. The
results, as discussed below, were, however, disappointing.
11.   PTC reorganization. The Project objective to reorganize PTC's operations
occurred initially in the Post reorganization in 1993 followed by the Telikom
reorganization into regional districts in 1994. The latter introduced fiscal and operational
accountability under four General Managers reporting to the Managing Director.
12.   PTC management. Management improvements were to be achieved under the
Project through hiring and training of indigenous staff. On-the-job training of PNG
nationals through postings to more developed telephone administrations, and overseas
training of managers provided some growth in local resources and their competence.
However, the impact of the training program was too limited and the majority of the
planning, engineering, and financial positions continued to be occupied by expatriate staff.
13.   Management information systems. The Project objectives in introducing a
computerized management information system were to: (a) monitor key performance
indicators; (b) provide a new telecommunications data base (service orders, cable facilities,
fault repairs etc.); (c) improve financial and accounting systems; (d) create a personnel data
base to control staff operations; and (e) train MIS users to control PTC operations
successfully. These objectives were only partially achieved. The introduction of a
financial and accounting system at the early stages of the project was successful. The
larger computer system to provide a new telecommunications data base was delayed in
procurement, and not initially well designed, leading to a long delay in initializing system
turn-up and poor performance in providing reasonable on-line response to district inquiries,
necessitating further enhancements and subsequent investment. The resulting cost overrun
was US$ 3.1 million (+125%) by 1994. The allocation for MIS equipment was adjusted in
the amendment to the Loan Agreement of March 1995. At the time of loan closing,
computer operations for the financial and accounting systems, overlaid with personnel data
bases, was leading PTC to consider replacement of this MIS component in the next few
years. Implementation of that component was therefore not satisfactory.



5
PTC's operations
14.   Staffproductivity. The telecommunications component of PTC improved its
productivity during project implementation by reducing its staff ratio from 87 staff/1,000
working lines in 1989 to 48 staff/1,000 working lines in 1995, thereby meeting the
appraisal target.
15.   Operational targets. PTC's target at the time of project preparation was to increase
the switching capacity from 43,518 lines in 1989 to 74,500 lines by 1995 (an increase of
30,982 lines), and increase the working lines from 30,993 in 1989 to 38,500 by 1993. The
largest increase in exchange capacity (25,236 lines or 81.6%) was to occur in 1991/1992.
There was little increase in exchange capacity prior to 1993, and the total increase in
capacity over the seven year (1989 to 1995) period was only 15,626 lines (50% of the
program target). Lines in service increased to 38,807 by 1993, achieving the target.
Further improvement in providing new services occurred between 1993 and 1995, with
4,591 subscribers added, mainly in urban centers.
Financial Objectives
16.   Financial situation. Project targets were met in most years. PTC's operating ratio
(operating expenses to operating revenues) was not to exceed 85% in fiscal years 1990
through 1992, and not to exceed 80% following 1992. These targets were achieved in the
years 1992 through 1994. The rate of return on net fixed assets target for the project was to
be at least 13%. This target was significantly exceeded in the period 1992 through 1994.
Both indicators, however, fell below target levels in 1995, after expenditures to rehabilitate
the telecommunications network as well as the loss of revenues, following the Rabaul
natural disaster. Subsequently the rate of return rose again in 1996. The debt coverage
ratio remained consistently above target throughout the project period. PTC's financial
situation, judged by the indicators, is satisfactory, although revenue per working line
(RWL) slightly declined from K 3,288 in 1991 to K 3,253 in 1995 - but remains very high
by international standards. Total expenses per working line significantly exceeded the K
2,800 target only in 1992, both as a result of high staff and operating and maintenance
costs, and returned later to normal.
17.   Accounting system. The reliability and availability of financial and accounting
information has improved through the introduction of a computerized system early in the
project. The capacity of the accounting system is limited, therefore restricting the
availability of financial information to senior management through direct computer access.
This has inhibited fiscal accountability under the new organizational structure. The formal
separation of post and telecommunications financial and accounting records and systems
had not been completed by the closing date for the project. The reorganization of the
accounting department into two new units remains incomplete since the required additional
qualified staff and a new computer system have not been obtained.



6
18.   Annual audit requirements. The provision of PTC's audited financial statements
was in full compliance with the provisions of the Loan agreement. The provision of
audited financial statements for the special account and SOE's was not in compliance with
the Loan agreement for the years 1991 through 1995, which led to the suspension of
disbursement under SOEs, effective January 1995 (see audit and disbursements,
paragraph 26).
19.   Tariffs. Historically, tariff adjustments had been made on the basis of passing on
costs and on achieving the rate of return targets for PTC. An institutional objective for the
project included engaging a Telecommunications policy advisor to work with DFP, whose
primary role would be to initiate two tariff reviews (in 1990 and 1993) and to introduce a
new policy on tariff setting for the Government. No action had been taken by DFP on this
by 1993, so the Bank attempted to reinstitute the objective by having PTC assume this
responsibility in 1994. The new Managing Director of PTC, however, engaged the
Telecommunications policy advisor and utilized the resource to initiate legislative changes
in order to split post and telecommunications, which was completed in January 1997.
Furthermore, the GRA rehabilitation work in 1994/95 diverted DFP's attention from this
objective. Consequently, engaging a consultant for tariff reform had not been realized by
the closing date of the loan.
Physical Objectives
20.  Implementation schedule. The IBRD component of the project was to: (a)
rehabilitate the existing local switch network and cable distribution network for about
27,000 existing customers; (b) expand the local telephone service by the addition of 7,000
lines and associate cable distribution network; (c) build new exchanges in Boroko and Lae;
(d) replace and expand the long distance transmission facilities through the addition of 20
new digital microwave transmission systems; (e) replace the existing satellite earth station
and expand the international telephone exchange; (f) replace the telex exchange and install
a packet-switching data exchange; and (g) replace the existing high frequency (HF) and
coastal radio systems and consolidate them into two networks. The IBRD financing for
this component was appraised at US$ 11.8 million. Procurement was to occur in 1990-91,
with installation ready-for-service progressively from 1992 to 1995. Actual procurement
of equipment, except the HF and coastal radio systems consolidation, was available for
service almost on schedule. However the funding of the six sub-projects was financed by
PTC from suppliers' credits, rather than from the Bank loan as had been envisaged (see
paragraph 24). The HF and coastal radio system consolidation had not been tendered by
the time the project closed.
21.   Gazelle Restoration Authority activity. The telecommunications restoration
program for GRA encompassed three phases: phase 1 included activities required for
restoration of services in all areas except Rabaul and Toleap in a one-month period; phase
2 was aimed at restoring services to Rabaul and other locations in the Gazelle Peninsula
which had telecommunications services prior to the volcanic eruptions, to be completed
within six months; and phase 3 included the development of a long-term network



7
infrastructure for the New Guinea Islands Region to avoid blackout of services in the event
of future volcanic eruptions - a two-year activity. Phases I and 2 were completed on time,
but phase 3 only started when the project closed-21 months after the eruptions.
Therefore, only US$ 2.04 million (out of the US$ 4 million allocated for this component)
was disbursed under the loan.
22.   Objectives of service quality. The quality of service has improved during project
implementation. Faults/100 working lines per month have declined from more than 15 in
1992 to 7.5 faults in 1995. The major contributor was the physical renovation and
expansion of the outside plant network in Port Moresby. The project target to establish a
program to measure and improve fault clearance to a period of two days, 90% of the time
in urban centers, 50% in rural areas, was only partially realized in 1993. A combined
urban/rural result of 51 % was reported for 1993. In 1994, service quality measurement and
reporting was revised radically, with faults cleared within 30 days being the only reported
criteria, and this performance was achieved at only 80% of the time by the end of 1995.
Cost of Financing
23.   The cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to be US$ 76 million (K 66.2
million), with a foreign cost of US$ 64.6 million; IBRD financing was foreseen at US$
17.2 million, suppliers' and export credits at US$ 16.4 million, and PTC's contribution at
US$ 42.4 million. The actual cost of the project is estimated to be US$ 74.6 million (K
73.3 million)3, with US$ 11.69 million (68% of the approved loan) disbursed by IBRD -
US$ 9.65 million for institutional development (a US$ 4.25 million increase from the
appraised project, decided at the time of the Loan Amendment, in 1995, and allocated to
the implementation of the MIS, (see paragraph 31)) and US$ 2.04 million to meet physical
objectives (a US$ 9.76 million decrease), with a substantial increase in suppliers' credit to
replace Bank financing for network investment components (see paragraph 20).
Procurement
24.   The use of the Loan funds to meet physical investment objectives of the project was
much more limited than had been foreseen, due mainly to the reluctance of PTC's senior
management to follow World Bank's ICB procurement guidelines to purchase
telecommunications equipment. The objection was related to PTC's operations approach,
which favors relying on a limited number of technology suppliers to avoid multiple
technology interface problems, minimize new equipment training requirements, and
minimize ongoing operations and maintenance costs; rather than buying from new and
different equipment suppliers through ICB to optimizing capital costs. These reservations
against the Bank's ICB procurement guidelines were known and discussed at project
appraisal, and were considered in allocating procurement packages among the financing
sources: PTC, suppliers' and export credit funding, and IBRD. However, when additional
suppliers' credit became available to PTC during the project, IBRD financing was ignored
3  If the costs for the restoration of the Gazelle peninsula are included, the estimated cost would exceed K 76 million.



8
for the procurement of telecommunications equipment, except for the GRA restoration
activity. With hindsight, even though a Borrower may prefer competitive selection
through negotiated offers, the use of the ICB procurement method should be discussed
more at appraisal to resolve Borrower commitment to utilizing the Bank's financing.
25.   Procurement of consultants and computer equipment followed World Bank
procurement guidelines. Training was sole source.
Audits and Disbursements
26.   The SOE and special account audit report for 1991 was only received January
19944, after much insistence from the Bank. Audited reports for 1992 and 1993 were not
provided on time despite repeated requests; the Bank, therefore, suspended disbursement
by SOEs in January 1995 (see audits, paragraph 18). The issue was only resolved when
the April 1996 Bank Mission addressed this failure to meet the terms and conditions of the
Loan agreement: the documentation of invoices and payments to satisfy the Office of the
Auditor General (OAG) had not been produced by PTC for many transactions in 1992,
delaying audit of the 1992 accounts as well as the subsequent financial reports, submitted
by PTC in April of the following years. Once the Bank identified the cause of the
blockage, and with special effort by PTC accounting and OAG, the 1992, 1993 and 1994
financial reports were audited and submitted to the Bank, and disbursement by SOEs
reinstated in September 1996, permitting processing of two final withdrawal applications
for phase 1 and 2 Rabaul foreign restoration expenditures, by the end of October 1996.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project and Implementation Record
27.   Factors not generally subject to Government control. The 1994 Rabaul volcanic
eruption and the subsequent destruction to the Gazelle Peninsula necessitated the
redirection of existing IBRD loans, leading to a modified infrastructure expenditure for the
Third Telecommunications Project.
28.   Factors generally subject to Government control. Adequate oversight, control and
responsibility to exercise corrective action by the Project Program Office (PPO) of
Government departments and corporations utilizing IBRD loans funds was lacking.
Adequate procedures to monitor adherence to the conditions of the Loan Agreement, in
particular to the financial reporting covenants, were not in place. These factors
significantly weakened the case for extending the loan closing date5 (see paragraph 38).
29.   Periodic evaluation of institutional development activities by PPO was inadequate
to ensure timely and effective project implementation. Furthermore, several key
institutional development objectives were not achieved (see DFP institutional objectives,
4   By the terms of the Loan agreement, the audited reports are due nine months after close of the fiscal year.
5   For Loan 31 54-PNG other contributing factors in not granting the Government's request to extend the closing date
include: loan funds were not used to procure telecommunications equipment as stated in the Project agreement;
and lack of a reasonable Action Plan for the period of extension.



9
paragraph 9), as a result an attempt to implement some aspects of the institutional
development program in the last four months of the project life did not bear fruit.
30.   Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency control. Changes in Borrower's
physical development targets and the sources of financing were to be included in the
annual reviews with the Bank and clearly documented. This was not done properly.
Furthermore, it was PTC's decision to reject ICB procurement guidelines for the purchase
of project telecommunications equipment and instead resort to other sources of financing.
In 1995, PTC requested the Bank for a reallocation of US$3.1 million of the loan for the
MIS component. The reallocation of US$ 4.0 million for GRA rehabilitation program in
1995 reduce the urgency to cancel the unused Loan funds; however, adequate funding was
still available for PTC to procure the HF and coastal radio system. Furthermore, with a
change in PTC management on two occasions, the Borrower's commitment to the project
and the achievement of its objectives wavered.
E. Project Benefits and Sustainability
31.   Project Benefits. The benefits of the project, considered irrespective of its
financing, are related to the improvement of services provided to the subscribers and their
impact on the economic activity. Specifically, they are: (a) an increase in the quality and
coverage of telecommunications services, as explained above, primarily in urban centers;
and (b) implementation of institutional development activities in PTC. The economic rate
of return is calculated at 21 percent (see Part II, Table 9). Although it is less than the 24
percent projected at appraisal, it is considered satisfactory, considering the economic
impact and postponement to achievement of the physical objectives incurred by the Rabaul
disaster.
32.   Although a number of the project's physical objectives for the rehabilitation and
expansion of telecommunications services were achieved, service coverage remains low,
and overall, institutional achievements under the project have been modest. Thus the
Project is considered unsatisfactory in achieving its development objectives.
33.   Sustainability. The organizational split between post and telecommunications
activities, although not an objective of the project, can provide a basis for further
commercialization and privatization. However, two issues remain that affect the viability
of the telecommunications sector in PNG: (1) whether the Government or Telikom PNG
shall assume the debt incurred for constructing the new headquarters building (Telikom
Rumana) for PTC in 1994, as the burden of loan repayment will adversely impact the
financial performance of the restructured Telikom PNG; and (2) the need for tariff reform
(see tariffs, paragraph 19). The latter issue has many implications, as it would: (a) satisfy
the Government's stated strategy of reducing telecommunications costs; (b) assure
adequate revenues from local services and, at the same time, provide a stimulus to reduce
operating costs for any telecommunications entity; and (c) establish a standard method for
rate adjustment that would directly influence the issue of any future licenses. These issues



lo
require Government's and Telikom PNG's urgent attention Therefore, on balance, the
above uncertainties make the project sustainability uncertain.
F. Bank's Performance
34.   Preparation and appraisal. The Government expressed concern to the Bank in
1987 about institutional and developmental issues in the telecommunications sector that
needed to be resolved. The Bank assisted the Government through a PPF to obtain an
independent assessment of PTC operations (see paragraph 3). The project was
subsequently initiated to include both physical and institutional development for the sector.
Appraisal and negotiations took place in 1989, in a compressed interval, with Board
approval early in 1990. The Bank's preparation and appraisal of the project are rated
satisfactory.
35.   Supervision. Regular supervision took place with two visits per year in 1992 and
1993, one in 1994, no visit in 1995 and one in 1996. When the project closed, it was with
its fifth task manager; the two task managers who had supervised the project during its
critical period of change-from 1992 through mid- 1995-had left the Bank. Contentious
issues, such as changes in and lack of action towards achieving the project targets and
objectives, were identified in mission reports, but follow up actions from Washington had
little impact in resolving the issues. PTC's reluctance to follow IBRD procurement
procedures resulted in a substantial portion of the Loan funds remaining unutilized. This
led the Bank to consider recommending cancellation of a portion of the Loan in 1994. A
reallocation of resources to the MIS component as well as to GRA rehabilitation program
in November 1994, however, provided an alternative use of funds (see paragraph 30). The
Bank's supervision of the project is rated deficient.
G. Borrower's Performance
36.   DFP was the Borrower, with PTC being the principal implementing agency of the
funds (US$ 17.20 million allocated, US$ 11.69 million disbursed). Cooperation between
DFP and the Bank's project team was cursory, and rarely led to resolution of institutional
objective issues, and matters pertaining to PTC. Cooperation between PTC and the Bank
was not fully effective in the latter years of the project life, with PTC's senior management
giving little attention to Bank missions. The advent of the Rabaul disaster in September
1994 presented the PPO and PTC with a valid motive to postpone action on project
objectives for over one year.
37.   Compliance with Loan Covenants. The status of compliance with all Loan
covenants is shown in Table 10. The Borrower's compliance, with Loan convenants was
deficient: the majority of project covenants were complied with, but compliance with the
Loan's financial covenants was most unsatisfactory. Provision of audited financial
statements by PTC was achieved (see annual audit requirements, paragraph 18), but



II
audited reports for expenditures were consistently delinquent6 (see audits and
disbursements, paragraph 26). PTC did introduce a program to improve operational
efficiencies and improve earnings that reached its peak in 1993 (see financial situation,
paragraph 16). The unfortunate natural disaster in the Gazelle Peninsula disrupted this
programn and the results for 1994 and 1995 show a significant decline to pre-Project levels.
In 1996, Telikom PNG management instituted a new program to improve financial results.
38.    Based on the Borrower's unsatisfactory implementation performance of
institutional objectives, a protracted delay in submission of the audited project accounts,
and the delay in procuring telecommunications equipment both for the HF and coastal
radio system and the GRA phase 3 component, the Bank denied the Government's request
for an extension of the Loan closing date by one year to June 30, 1997 (see paragraph 28).
H. Assessment of Outcome
39.    PTC achieved many service improvement and operational efficiency targets,
although it utilized little of the Bank's financing for procurement of telecommunications
equipment. Legal covenants were partially complied with, to the degree that they were in
line with the principal objectives of the loan. However, the introduction of tariff reform and
PTC oversight procedures by the Government were not realized as envisioned during
project appraisal. Measure to improve the environment for the sector have taken place
outside of the project. Overall, the implementation and outcome of the project are
considered as unsatisfactory.
I. Key Lessons Learned
40.    The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)    Project implementation and the achievement of its development objectives are
crucially dependent on continuity of staff on both the Borrower and Bank's sides as
well as the frequency of Bank supervision visits and consultations.
(b)    The Borrower's commitment to attaining project objectives and meeting Loan
covenants must be exercised through vesting a PPO with adequate authority and
resources to oversee and take action as required with all project entities.
(c)    The Bank must educate the Borrower on the requirements of the legal covenants and
the implication of non-compliance at the time of proj ect preparation, and must play an
active role in assisting the Boirower in resolving problems in meeting such covenants
in a timely fashion.
6   The Government utilizes the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) to audit reports of Government departments and
corporations. Unfortunately, OAG is required to suspend audits on corporate financial statements and reports on
expenditures as required under Loan agreements for the period April through August annually in order to audit
Government reports due before Parliament by September. It is not a practice to contract private sector auditors as
the principal Government department or corporation is expected to bare such cost. The result is often delayed audit
reports for financial statements and accounts.



12
(d)   The Bank's procurement guidelines requiring ICB for the procurement of
telecommunications equipment may be inappropriate in certain situations -typified by
a small telecommunications entity, which is concerned with multiple technology
compatibility, additional training for a new type of equipment, and ongoing
operation and maintenance costs, rather than solely minimizing initial capital costs.
The appropriate alternative may be to selectively structure the physical objectives to
permit more direct purchases.
(e)   If the Bank wishes to play an active role in assisting the Borrower in evolving
national policy relative to the telecommunications sector, it must provide in a
timely manner relevant information on changes in sector structure and financing
occurring internationally and in the Bank's approach to development assistance for
the sector, and be prepared to commit the required resources for technical assistance
if so requested by the Borrower.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3154-PNG)
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices
Appendix A -IBRD Map No. IBRD 21856



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                      [1              [1- 
Sector policies                      E                                                  E
Financial objectives                LI              [E]              FI                 0
Institutional development            U              [2i3             II                 l
Physical objectives                  0              53                                  O
Poverty reduction                                                    D [  
Gender issues                         I             Li               L                 E
Other social objectives                                              D L  a 
Environmental objectives                                                               =N ]  LI  [
Public sector management                            [] [x]                              Q
Private sector development           I              II               0I                I
Other (specify)                                     LI                                 FE2 
B. Project sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1')                      ($)                       (1)



15
Highly
C. Bank performance                    satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                     (v')                      (/)
Identification                       ax=C
Preparation assistance              I                         xEa
Appraisal                           [                         xEa
Supervision                         ni                       a 
Highly
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(1')                     (/)                      (/)
Preparation                        E                                                  Ela
Implementation                      j                       E] 
Covenant compliance                El                        El                      [x
Operation (if applicable)          L                        [
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(/)            El)                                El l



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan title                        Purpose               Year of    Status
approval
Telecommunications Project   To assist in:                    1968    Completed
IB3RD Loan 546-PNG          (a) development of local and long-           1972
distance telecommunications
facilities;
(b) provision of subscriber direct
dialing; and
(c) introduction of commercial
accounting standards.
Second T elecommunications    To assist in development of local  1973    Completed
Project IBRD Loan 852-PNG    telecommunicationsfacilities.               1977
Third telecommuinications   To assist in:                     1990   Completed
Project IBRD l,oan 3154-PNG
(a) expanding access to service;            1996
(b) improving the quality of service
to subscribers; and
(c) reducing PTC's operating costs.



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle    |  Date planned            Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project      June 1989           June 20, 1989
Summary)
Preparation                                    -                     -
Appraisal                              June/July 1989      July/August 1989
Negotiations                           November 15, 1989   November 20-22. 1989
Letter of development policy (if                                                l
applicable)                                                                     l
Board presentation                     December 5, 1989    January 4, 1990
Signing                                                    June 29, 1990
Effectiveness                                              September 26. 1990
Project completion                     June 30, 1996       June 30, 1996
Credit closing/final disbursement      October 31. 1996    November 6, 1996



18
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Calendar years
19/          90      91      92      93      94      95      96
Appraisal estimate   1.9    10.8    15.6    16.6    17.0    17.2    17.2
Actual             1.54    2.47    3.16    6.38    9.26    11.26   11.69
Actual as % of
estimate           81      23       20      38      54      65     68 a/
a/ An amount of US$ 5.51 of the loan was cancelled in November 1996.



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1991           1992           1993            1994            1995            1996
Annual targets or values at    SAR   Actual  SAR    Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual
December 31          target          target         target          target         ta              target
A. TELEPHONE
1. Exchange Capacity (000's)          43176           44930          52268           54992  74500   59144            62246
2. Lines in Operation (000's) *   34500  34654  36500  36406  38500  38807           42460           43398           46796
3. International Circuits
Satellite                        74              95             213            223             232             379
Submarine                        167            217             226            226             221             246
4. National Trunk Exchanges               8               8              8               8               6               5
5. Exchange Fill (%)                    80.2           84.3            74.2           77.2            73.4             74.9
B. OUALITY OF SERVICE
6. Average lines faulty %               NA             15.3            10.0           15.4             7.5              1.9
7. Faults cleared %
within 24 hours                  27             NA              30             NA              NA               NA
within 48 hours*          60     48      80     NA       90      51            NA              NA               NA
within 7 days                    82             NA               79            NA              NA                75
within 30 days                   89              84            89.5             88              80               90
8. Call completion % *
international outgoing    56    NA       59      58      62      60             55             NA                52
international incoming           NA              45              45             53              45               49
C. PRODUCTIVITY
8  Telecom Staff                       1435            1626           1751            1809            1934            2111
9. StaiV1,000WrkngLines*         72      41      62      47      50     46              44              48              46



20
1991           1992             1993            1994            1995             1996
Annual targets or values at    SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual   SAR   Actual
December 31           target          target          target          target           target          target
D. FINANCIAL
10. Operating Ratio (%) *         83       87      82      85      81      77      80      78      78       87               84
11. Current Ratio                 1.2     1.1     1.5     0.8      1.8    0.9      1.6    0.9      1.7     0.9              1.1
12. Rate of Return on average      13    12.4      13    16.2      15    22.2      16    17.2      18      9.8             17.4
net fixed assets *
13. Debt Service Coverage         4.1    31.3     4.2     4.9     4.6    5.9       5.1    5.1      5.7     3.0              4.6
E. OPERATING INDICATORS
14. Revenue /DEL (K)            2866    3288    2950    3554   3037   3678    3127   3490   3221    3253                   3435
15. Expense /DEL (K)            2811    2873    2826    3014   2828   2837    2827   2751    2833    2823                  2880
Indicators contained in SAR



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Annual values at December 31            1996         1997          1998         1999         2000
(actual)
A. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
1. Operating ratio (%)                          84            89           85           82           79
2. Current ratio                                1.1          NA            NA           NA           NA
3. Rate of Return on average                   17.4            7             8           10           13
net fixed assets
4. Debt Service Coverage                        4.6          2.0           2.5          3.2          4.4
5. Revenue per Working Line *                 3435          2940         3000         3000         3000
6. Expense per Working Line *                 2880          2609         2570          2460        2370
B. FINANCIAL RESULTS Kms
7. Capital Expenditure                          21            73            49           37           31
8. Total Telecom Revenues                       155          141           154          167          181
9. Total Telecom Expenses                       130          126           132          137          143
10. Net Profit                                  37            15           22            29           38
* Working line average in service for the year



22
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Study                 Purpose as defined at appraisal          Status                Impact of study
I .Tariffs                 A tariffeconomic advisor would review   Studywas prepared  GRA rehabilitationeffortdiverted
PTC tariff proposals in 1990 and 1993 and   in 1990, but no  attention from this objective
would analyze its structure at three-year  action taken nor
intervals                              follow-up study.
2. Managementinformation    Planned MIS would include a customer    Study completed    Introductionof a financial,
system (MIS)                records data base, cable/plant records, an  and implementation  accounting and personnel records
order processing system, a billing system, a   completed.  system was successful, but will need
financial system, personnel records systems,               to be replaced with larger capacity
postal operation systems, inventory                        system. Records data based and order
management systems and support service                     processing system introduced, but
systems                                                    with significant cost overrun.
brouwer
A:\TABLE7.DOC
June 13,1997 12:07 PM



23
Table 8A: Project costs
Item                        Appraisal estimate              Latest estimate
(US$M)                        (US$M)
Physical development
1. Exchanges                                     16.1                           16
2. Cable plant                                    7.2                            4
3. Subscriber terminal equipment                  7.5                         about5
4. Long distance transmission equipment           8.2                           15
5. Internationaltelephone exchange and            13.9                          19
satellite earth station
6. Air conditioning, power supply and test        5.3                         about 3
equipment
7. Data and telex exchanges                       6.6                           3.7
8. Radio-telephoneand maritime service            4.3                            0
Subtotal                                  69.1                       65.7 (IBRD 2)
Policy and Institutional ImRrovement
1. Technical assistance                           1.7                           2.1
2. Training                                       1.8                           2.0
3. Management information system                  3.4                           6.9
Subtotal                                   6.9                       11 (IBRD.9.7)
TOTAL                              76.0                     estimated over 76



24
Table 8B: Project financing
Item                        Appraisal estimate             Actual financing
(US$M)                        (US$M)
1. IBRD                                           17.2                          11.69
2. Suppliers and Export Credit                    16.4                         about 37
3. PTC                                            42.4                         over 27
TOTAL                               76.0                    estimated over 76



25
Table 9: Economic costs and benefits
Million   Program    Revenues  Operating    Benefit   Total costs
1991 K      cost    from new   cost of new  from new  and benefits
lines    lines and    lines      of the
maintenance              project
1990        5.7                                          -5.7
1991       24.7         6.9        4.0        2.9       -21.8
1992       30.4        12.8        7.5        5.4       -25.0
1993        5.7        20.7       12.1        8.6         2.9
1994        5.7        32.6       19.0       13.6         7.9
1995                   35.8       20.9       15.0        15.0
1996                   47.0       27.4       19.6        19.6
1997                   47.0       31.0       16.0        16.0
1998                   47.0       31.0       16.0        16.0
1999                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2000                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2001                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2002                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2003                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2004                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2005                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2006                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2007                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2008                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2009                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2010                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2011                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2012                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
2013                   47.0       31.0        16.0       16.0
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IRR): 21 percent
Revenues and operating costs only come from the 14,300 new lines, connected from
1991 to 1996. Maintenance costs is added, as 5% of the total investment cost, from 1997 on.
Prices are 1991 constant. The calculation excludes an estimate of the consumer surplus.



26
Table 10: Status of legal covenants
Project development objectives rating: U
Original    Revised
Covenant     Present  fulfillment  fulfillment    Description of
Agreement   Section       Type         status     date       date             covenant              Comments
Loan      3.01 A    Utilization of   CP                            Borrower to carry out part  In partial compliance.
project funds                                 A of the project.
3.01    Implementation    CP                           Borrower to cause PTC to   In partial compliance.
BCD                                                     perform in accordance with
provisions of Project
agreement, with relevant
funds.
3.02     Management       CP                            Procurement of goods,    Project agreement
works and consultants    amended in March
services to be governed by   1995. In compliance.
provisions of schedule of
Project agreement.
3.03     Utilization of   C                             Obligations of General   In compliance.
project funds                                 conditions in respect to
parts B and C of the
project.
3.04    Implementation    C       August                Borrower to employ       In compliance.
31, 1990             consultants to assist in
carrying out part A of the
project
4.01    Accounts/audit    C                             Borrower to keep accounts  In compliance.
for part A of the project
and furnish audited
accounts within nine
months after end of fiscal
year.
4.02 A    Accounts/audit    CP                           Borrower to keep accounts  In partial compliance.
for parts B and C of the
project and retain records
for at least one year after
submitting last audited
report, and enable Bank's
representatives to examine
such records.
4.02 B    Accounts/audit    NC                           Borrower to keep accounts   Accounts for 1992,
for parts B and C of the  1993 and 1994 were
project and Special      audited with much
account, and furnish     delay, and submitted
audited accounts within  in 1996, only after
nine months after end of    WB mission learnt
fiscal year. Should furnish   what blocked the
information on such      procedure. The 1995
accounts as required.    accounts were never
provided..



27
Project    3.01 A    Management        C                             PTC to carry out its     In compliance.
operations in accordance
with sound professional
practices.
3.01 B     Monitoring      CP                            PTC to out its operations   In partial compliance.
in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the
Bank.
3.02     Management        C                            PTC to maintain its plant    In compliance.
and equipment in
accordance with
professional practices
3.03     Management        C                            PTC to be insured against   In compliance.
risks, in accordance with
appropriate practices.
4.01    Accoounts/audit    C                            PTC to maintain financial   In compliance.
s                                         records and fumishes
audited statements nine
months after end of each
year.
4.02       Financial      CP                             PTC to achieve an annual    Return was higher
performance                                    rate of return on net fixed   than target in 1992-
assets of not less than 13%.  94, lower in 1995 and
higher again in 1996.
4.03       Financial      CP                             PTC to achieve an        In compliance from
performance                                    operating ratio not more  1992 to 1994, but not
than 85% until 1992 and    in 1995.
than 80% in later years.
4.04       Financial       C                            PTC not to incur any debt,  The ratio was over 2
performance                                    if its debt coverage ratio is  from 1991 through
less than 2.              1996.
Present status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



28
Table 11: Compliance with operational manual statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statements (OD or OP/BP) was observed under the project.



29
Table 12: Bank resources: Staff inputs
Stage of project cycle       Planned                Actual
Weeks       US$ a/     Weeks    US$ bJ
Through appraisal      12         24,000       15      30,000
Appraisal to Board      10        20,000        10     20,000
Board to effectiveness   10        20,000        10      20,000
Supervision          39        78,000       38      95,000
Completion           10        20,000       10      27,000
TOTAL              81        162,000       80     192,000
a/    In FY89, at estimated average cost of US$ 2,000 per staff week.
b/    In FY95, at estimated average cost of US$ 2,700 per staff week.



30
Table 13: Bank resources: Missions
Performancerating /b
Stage of projectcycle   Month/    Number   Days in field   Specializedstaff   Implemen-    Develop-          Types of
year     of persons                     skills       tation status    ment         problems
represented/a                  objectives
Before appraisal
Identification           6/89
(Executive Project
Summary)
Appraisal through
Board approval
Appraisal mission        8/89          4           13          Eng., Econ.,
FinA, Cons.
Board approval           12/89
Supervisionmission 1     5/90          2            7           Eng.,Econ.
Effectiveness            9/90
Other Supervision
Supervisionmission2      11/90         2            9          Eng., Econ.         2             2
Supervisionmission3      6/91          2           10          Eng., Econ.         2             2
Supervisionmission4      3/92          2            4           Eng., Econ          2            2
Supervisionmission5      9/92          1            3             Eng.              2            2
Supervisionmission6      5/93          1            5             Econ.             2            2
Supervisionmission 7     10/93         2            5          Econ., FinA          S            S
Supervisionmission8      11/94         3            5          Eng., Econ.,         S            S
FinA
Supervisionmission9      4/96          2            4           Eng., FinA          S            S        No audit of
Special
acccounts had
been submitted
since 1992
Closure mission          9/96          1            3             Eng.              S            S
/a Abbreviations: Cons: Consultant; Econ: Ecomomist; Eng.: Engineer; FinA.: Financial Analyst.
/b Keys to overall performance rating (before FY 94) = I - problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems;
(from FY 94 on) = HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory; U - unsatisfactory; HU - highly unsatisfactory.



I88R  21856
50 jSRP A P A U   N  E W                                             G  U I N  e A
.M A N U 5!                                                                                   POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (PTC)
- Wf                                                                                                                                                               Sf sER/< i 1 THIRD TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
, ,   t  ,                          /                           t              t    }   >vs?<q ° * s EXCHANGES ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XCAN E
rEi ;\ffi--<-Tt i 6 A S r  S E PI/ /1f    ; _ / 5,                                          s                                                                                m o * C v SMe a B -< R R 54iALL TEINALWAAL  TESJ-.-
k                        CA    REPEATERS
B                                                                                                         A.OAE IK
NE                                        I?   EARTH STATEONS
PROVI~NCE BOUNDARIES
<                                                                                                                          -k S r                                            EIR N                      -.      NTERINATIONAL BOUNDAES
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
< ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                             ~       ~       ~~~~~ DrA  A N G      *
z
IENOlA h   9                                                                                                      s r4                I8 i 
OCEAN L _                             .               N" _  .
T.A.-        KS                I*.A4D~AE
0UI     .I R    V        IDN.    _i_                                        trUlN 6.,7                                           SS,c i
I  M~~~~~~~~~~~j4~~~~~~~~                                                                                            I      SOAGAINARAB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
HZ GH                          ___,_ -1NTERNs                                                                                                                                °   *D SNRI F A  192DI A  VNC C
- SM.~~~~~~~ ~~~  HIGHLANOS. ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~       5                                                                                 OL.O   ILA
NSW  %,       t,~                                                                     A                                                                 S0 WR  CR0 N            I Ei
A                                          A4 /I NE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s BTr A r     i
PAPUA NEW  OCEA
OCE-N..
- - - - - - - -  I                                                                                  SIIOSS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.ETEES 0   40   50    2    A
AN------                                                                                             hALES U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- 2--~0 A   A    aOU  I
SEPTELADR 989









IMAGING
Report No.:          16824
Type:      ICR



