Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3154 PNG
                (Third Telecommunications Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              POST AND TELECOMMUNICATION CORPORATION
                        Dated June 29, 1990
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3154 PNG
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  29,  1990, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and POST AND
TELECOMMUNICATION CORPORATION (PTC).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Independent State  of  Papua New Guinea (the Borrower)
and the  Bank,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  make  available to the
Borrower an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to seventeen
million two hundred thousand  dollars  ($17,200,000), on the terms
and conditions  set  forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but only on
condition that PTC agree to  undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  PTC,  part  of  the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
PTC on the terms and conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS PTC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. PTC declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall  carry  out  Parts  B and C of the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public
utilities practices, and shall  provide,  or cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  the  Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. PTC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts B and C of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  PTC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PTC shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  PTC  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank  with  regard  to progress of Parts B
and C of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  PTC shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Parts B and C of  the  Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of Loan, or the performance  by  PTC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. PTC shall carry  out  Part  C of the Project in
accordance with an institutional action plan agreed with the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of PTC
     Section 3.01.  (a)  PTC  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering and  public  utilities  practices under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, PTC shall  carry  on its operations in accordance
with performance indicators acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.02. PTC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public utilities practices.
     Section  3.03.  PTC   shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  PTC  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  PTC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PTC shall earn, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1989, an annual return of not less than 13%
of  the  average  current  net  value  of  PTC's  fixed  assets in
operation.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, PTC
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by PTC and satisfactory
to the Bank, review  whether  it  would  meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  PTC  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for PTC's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  PTC  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its   rates)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               PTC's net operating income  for  the fiscal year in
               question by one half of  the sum of the current net
               value of PTC's  fixed  assets  in  operation at the
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
Page  4
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 5%
               per annum of  the  average  current  gross value of
               PTC's fixed  assets  in  operation,  or other basis
               acceptable to the Bank,  but excluding interest and
               other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average  current  gross  value  of  PTC's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
               of the sum of the gross value of PTC's fixed assets
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               fiscal  year,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi)  The term "current net  value  of PTC's fixed assets
               in operation" means the  gross value of PTC's fixed
               assets in operation less  the amount of accumulated
               depreciation,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PTC shall maintain, for each  of  its  fiscal years 1990, 1991 and
1992, a  ratio  of  total  operating  expenses  to total operating
revenues not higher than  85%,  and  for  each of its fiscal years
after its fiscal year  ending  on  December  31,  1992, a ratio of
total operating expenses  to  total  operating revenues not higher
than 80%.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, PTC
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by PTC and satisfactory
to the Bank, ascertain whether  it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year, and shall  furnish  to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If  any  review  shows  that  PTC  would  not  meet  the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for PTC's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  PTC  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its   rates)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 5%
               per annum of  the  average  current  gross value of
               PTC's fixed  assets  in  operation,  or other basis
               acceptable  to  the  Bank,  excluding  interest and
               other charges on debt.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
        (iii)  The average  current  gross  value  of  PTC's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
               of the sum of the gross value of PTC's fixed assets
Page  5
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               fiscal  year,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PTC shall not incur any debt,  unless  the net revenues of PTC for
the fiscal year immediately preceding  the date of such incurrence
or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the  greater,  shall  be at least 2 times
the estimated maximum  debt  service  requirements  of PTC for any
succeeding fiscal year on all  debt  of PTC, including the debt to
be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of PTC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    PTC's rates  in  effect  at  the  time  of the
                    incurrence of debt  even  though they were not
                    in effect  during  the  twelve-month period to
                    which  such  revenues   relate  and  net  non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  6
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of PTC thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify PTC thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For PTC:
          Post and Telecommunication Corporation
          P.O. Box 1349
          Boroko, NCD
          Papua New Guinea
                                            Telex:
                                            NE 22372
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PTC,  or  by  PTC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Managing
Director or such other person  or persons as the Managing Director
shall designate in  writing,  and  PTC  shall  furnish to the Bank
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  7
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    POST AND TELECOMMUNICATION CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Margaret Taylor
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Papua New Guinea
may be granted  a  margin  of  preference  in accordance with, and
subject to, the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Management information systems  equipment  and software up to
an aggregate amount not  to  exceed  the equivalent of $2,500,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price  quotations  solicited  from  a  list  of  at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent  of  $1,000,000  or  more,  the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
Page  8
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2. The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the
Project and PTC  in  carrying  out  Part  B.3  of the Project, the
Borrower and  PTC,  respectively,  shall  employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
