Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3154 PNG
                (Third Telecommunications Project)
                              between
             THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 29, 1990
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3154 PNG
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1990, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE
OF PAPUA NEW  GUINEA  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS  (A)  the  Borrower   has   adopted  a  Policy  Paper
describing a program of  actions, activities and policies designed
to improve its telecommunications sector;
     (B)  the  Borrower,  having   satisfied   itself  as  to  the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (C)  part of the Project will be  carried out by the Post and
Telecommunication Corporation (PTC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to PTC part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as provided in this
Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and PTC;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Policy Paper"  means  the Borrower's telecommunications
sector policy  paper  dated  September  15,  1989 entitled "Policy
Guidelines for  Post  and  Telecommunication  Corporation" and the
Decision of the National  Executive  Council  No. 232/89 of Novem-
ber 10, 1989.
     (b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PTC of even date  herewith,  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by  the  Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated September 17, 1987 and October 19,
1987 between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PTC pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
     (e)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall  have  an aggregate value equivalent
to the amount of  seventeen  million  two hundred thousand dollars
($17,200,000) being the sum of  withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in Kina a  special  account in Bank of Papua New
Guinea (the Central Bank) on  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
Page  3
this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the  Effective  Date,  the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required  to  repay  the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and  outstanding as of such
date and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1996, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
          principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a  rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
Page  4
          of Qualified Borrowings  determined  in respect of such
          Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraph (a) of this
Section, the interest rate  for  the Interest Period commencing in
the first Semester  of  1989  shall  be  seven and sixty-five hun-
dredths percent (7.65%).
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative  and  financial  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources for Part A of the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the Borrower shall
cause PTC to  perform  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the  obligations  of  PTC therein set forth,
shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary  or  appropriate   to   enable   PTC   to  perform  such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall relend  part  of  the proceeds of the
Loan to PTC under a  subsidiary  loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower  and  PTC,  under  terms and conditions which
shall have been  approved  by  the  Bank  which  shall include the
following: (i) interest shall  be  payable on the principal amount
of said subsidiary  loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding from time to
time, at the rate then payable  to  the Bank under Section 2.05 of
this Agreement plus three percent,  such calculation to be made at
the start of  each  interest  period;  (ii)  such principal amount
shall be repaid over a period  of fifteen years, including a grace
period of five years; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk shall be
assumed by the Borrower.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect of
Page  5
Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out by  PTC pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall,  by August 31, 1990, employ
the consultants to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Part A of
the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures  in  respect  of  Part   A  of  the  Project  of  the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out Part A of the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
Page  6
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable
that the actions set forth  in  the Policy Paper, or a significant
part of such actions, will be carried out.
     (b)  The Policy Paper shall  have  been amended in a material
way without prior consultation with the Bank.
     (c)   PTC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  PTC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (e)  The Post and Telecommunication  Act (Chapter No. 394) of
the  Borrower  shall  have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of PTC to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (f)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PTC or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PTC.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project  Agreement  has been duly authorized or
ratified by PTC, and  is  legally  binding  upon PTC in accordance
with its terms; and
Page  7
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  PTC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PTC in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  for  Finance  and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister for Finance and Planning
          Department of Finance and Planning
          Post Office Wards Strip
          Waigani, N.C.D.
          Papua New Guinea
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               TREASURER                        NE 23331
               Boroko
               Papua New Guinea
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                    By /s/ Margaret Taylor
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  8
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Telecommunications                         100% of foreign
     equipment:                                 expenditures
     (a)  Part B.1,            7,100,000
          B.2, B.3
          B.5, B.6 and
          B.7 of the
          Project
     (b)  Part B.4 of          4,100,000
          the Project
(2)  Computer equipment:                        100% of foreign
                                                expenditure
     (a)  Part A of              100,000
          the Project
     (b)  Part C.3 of          2,500,000
          the Project
(3)  Consultants'                700,000        100%
     services for
     Part A of the
     Project
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)  Training:                                  100%
     (a)  Part A of              150,000
          the Project
     (b)  Part C of            1,200,000
          the Project
(5)  Refunding of                650,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 700,000
     for Parts B
     and C of
     the Project
                              __________
          TOTAL               17,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
Page  9
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except  that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000,  may be made in respect of
Categories  (2)  and  (3)   on   account   of  payments  made  for
expenditures before that date but after May 31, 1989; and
     (b)  Category 1(b)  for  payments  made  for expenditures for
equipment under Part B.4 of the Project until PTC has entered into
agreements with suppliers for  the  acquisition of exchanges under
Part B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to  expand the access to
service, reduce PTC's operating costs,  and improve the quality of
service to subscribers.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Improvement of  the  Department of Finance
          and Planning
     Provision  of   technical   assistance   to   the  Borrower's
Department of  Finance  and  Planning  to  improve  its ability to
monitor PTC's performance and  to implement the recommendations of
the Policy Paper and acquisition of related equipment and training
of relevant staff.
Part B:   Physical Development
1.   Rehabilitation  of  the  existing  local  telephone switching
     equipment  and  cable  distribution  network  to  improve the
     quality of service to about 27,000 existing subscribers.
2.   Expansion of  local  telephone  services  by  the addition of
     about 7,000 lines of  local exchange switching equipment with
     associated cable distribution network and subscriber terminal
     equipment to install 10,000 new subscriber lines.
3.   Installation of new transit exchanges in Boroko and Lae.
4.   Replacement  and  expansion  of  the  existing  long distance
     transmission systems through  installation  of 20 new digital
     microwave transmission links.
5.   Replacement of the  existing  earth  station  in  Gerehu by a
     Standard  A  station  and   expansion  of  the  international
     telephone exchange; the replaced earth  station to be used as
     a hub for the  domestic  satellite  network serving 12 remote
     locations.
6.   Replacement of the Lae  telex  exchange and installation of a
     packet switching  data  exchange  in  Port  Moresby with data
     terminals in 11 towns.
7.   Replacement   of   the   existing   HF   systems   and  their
     consolidation into 2 HF networks.
Part C:   Institutional Improvement of PTC
1.   Training of PTC  national  engineers  and managers in foreign
Page  10
     tertiary  institutions  to  provide  them  with  an  adequate
     professional level of training.
2.   On the job training  of  PTC  national engineers and managers
     through    secondment    to    more    developed    telephone
     administrations in key functional areas of PTC.
3.   Introduction of a computerized management information system:
     (i) to monitor  key  performance  indicators  of PTC, (ii) to
     provide a  new  telecommunications  database  system (service
     orders,  cable  facilities,  and  fault  repairs),  (iii)  to
     improve the financial and  accounting systems, (iv) to create
     a personnel records database to control staff operations, and
     (v)  to  train   management   information   system  users  to
     effectively control PTC operations.
4.   Reorganization of  PTC  operations  in  regional districts to
     increase PTC's commercial  orientation  and focus on customer
     service.
5.   Improvement of PTC's management structure.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1995                                315,000
March 1, 1996                                    325,000
September 1, 1996                                340,000
March 1, 1997                                    350,000
September 1, 1997                                365,000
March 1, 1998                                    380,000
September 1, 1998                                395,000
March 1, 1999                                    410,000
September 1, 1999                                425,000
March 1, 2000                                    440,000
September 1, 2000                                460,000
March 1, 2001                                    475,000
September 1, 2001                                495,000
March 1, 2002                                    515,000
September 1, 2002                                535,000
March 1, 2003                                    555,000
September 1, 2003                                575,000
March 1, 2004                                    600,000
September 1, 2004                                620,000
March 1, 2005                                    645,000
September 1, 2005                                670,000
March 1, 2006                                    695,000
September 1, 2006                                725,000
March 1, 2007                                    750,000
September 1, 2007                                780,000
March 1, 2008                                    810,000
September 1, 2008                                840,000
March 1, 2009                                    875,000
September 1, 2009                                905,000
March 1, 2010                                    930,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
Page  11
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The  interest   rate  (ex-
                                        pressed  as  a  percentage
                                        per  annum)  applicable to
                                        the  Loan  on  the  day of
                                        prepayment, multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
Page  12
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  $1,600,000  twice  the  amount  of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,   withdrawal  from  the  Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  shall  follow  such procedures as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was  not  justified  by  the  evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
Page  13
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
