Report No. 495a-UNI
Appraisal of
Smaliholder Oil Palm Project
East Central State
Nigeria                                                                                FILE COPY
March 28, 1975
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness ot the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      : Naira (N)
US$ 1            = N 0.66
N 1               uS$ 1.52
NJ1            = Kobo 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric (m) ton         0.98 long ton
1 long ton          5    1.016 m ton
1 long ton               2,240 lb
1 hectare (ha)      =    2.h7 acres (ac)
1 acre (ac)         =    0.405 ha
1 kilometer (km)         0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
AA               Agricultural Assistant
ADA              Agricultural Development Authority
AO        s      Agricultural Officer
E         I      East Central State (used in tables)
ECSMB     s      East Central State Marketing Board
FDA              Federal Department of Agriculture
ffb       s      fresh fruit bunches
FMANR     s      Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FM]       :      Federal Military Government
FHO       s      Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oldagineux
MAE       s      Ministry of Agricultural Extension
MAPAH     :      Ministry of Agricultural Production and Animal Husbandry
MEU       :      Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MW        s      Mid-Western State (used in tables)
MWT              M Hinistry of Works and Transport
NAB              Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NIFOR     :      Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
NPMC      :      Nigerian Produce Marketing Organization
PAC              Planting Authorization Comittee
SAO       :      Senior Agricultural Officer
SMU       :      Smallholder Management Unit (Western and East Central State)
TCU       a      Tree Crop Unit (in Mid-Western State)
W         :      Western State (used in tables)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......           ....................    i - iii
I.         INTRODUCTION ..........          ...........................         1
II.        BACKGROUND ...........         ............................          1
General .........        ............................         1
Agricultural Sector ......          ...................       1
Oil Palm Production ......          ...................       2
Institutions .......         .........................        3
III.       THE PROJECT AREA ........          .........................         3
IV.        THE PROJECT         .............................                    5
A.   General Description ......           ...................       5
B.   Detailed Features ......           .....................       6
V.         COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS             ........      10
Project Costs .......         ........................       10
Financing Arrangements .....          .................      11
Procurement .................................                12
Disbursement .......         .........................       13
Accounts and Audits ......          ...................      13
VI.        ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....            .................      14
Smallholder Management Unit .....          ............      14
Agricultural Development Authority           1..........     i
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. J. Bevan, M. Crowe, R. van der Lugt (Bank) and A. Bergan, J. Bogaerts,
Osman Farruk, C. Hartley and C. Redfern (Consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII.      PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMER BENEFITS, FINANCIAL
IMPLICATIONS TO GOVERNMENT ......    .................   17
Yields and Production ......    .................   17
Markets  and  Prices   ..........................   17
Farmer Benefits .18
Financial Returns to ADA .....    ...............   19
Financial Implications for the State
Government   .............................     19
VIII.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....     ..................  20
IX.       RECONMENDATIONS ........    ..........................   21
ANNEXES
1.       State Institutions
Chart WB 8729 - Organization Chart of Cooperative Division
2.        Planting Program under the project
3.       Organization and Management
A.  Smallholder Management Unit (SMU)
B.  The Agricultural Development Authority (ADA)
C.  Price Policy Committee and fresh fruit price calculation
Chart WB 83652R - Smallholder Management Unit
Chart WB 8362    -  Regional Unit
Table 1          - ADA summarized accounts for the year ended
March 31, 1973
4.       Establishing Processing Facilities, Fruit Collection System and
a Road Network
A.  Processing Facilities, Phasing and Costs
B.  Fruit Collection System
C.   Road Improvement Program
Chart WB 8428    -  Fruit collection center
Table 1          - Palm oil mills - capital expenditure
Table 2          -  Operating costs of mill
Table 3         -  Comparison between one-stage and two-stage
fruit collection systems
Table 4          -  Fruit collection in eastern area
Table 5         -  Fruit collection in western area



ANNEXES (Continued)
5.        Project costs
Table 1          -  Summary of project costs
Table 2          -  Smallholder field establishment cost (per ha)
Table 3          -  Smallholder field establishment costs
Table 4          -  SMU headquarters investment costs and recurrent
expenditure
Table 5          -  SMU headquarters, staff and salaries
Table 6           -  SMU Regional Units
Table 7          -  Road Improvement Program
Table 8          -  Schedule and cost of training
Table 9          -  Palm oil mills, investment costs
Table 10         -  Fruit collection investment costs
Appendix 1       -  Smallholder maintenance and harvesting cost
(per ha)
Appendix 2        -  Smallholder maintenance and monitoring costs
6.        Disbursements
Table 1          -  Financing plan
Table 2          -  Detailed financing of project costs
Table 3          -  Quarterly disbursement schedule
7.        Production Estimates for the Project
Table 1           -  Project production of ffb, palm oil and kernels
8.        Estimated Economic and Financial Millgate values of Palm Oil and
Kernels
Table 1          -  Estimated Economic and Financial Millgate value of
Palm Oil
Table 2          -  Estimated Economic and Financial Millgate value of
kernels
9.        Smallholder Farm Budget for 1-ha Planting
10.       ADA
Table 1           -  ADA projected cash flow 1979-1991
Table 2           -  Inflation indices
11.       East Central State Government cash flow
12.       Calculation of the Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Table 1           -  Economic rate of return
Table 2          -  Sensitivity analysis
MAP IBRD 10967 - Oil Palm Projects
MAP IBRD 10965 - Project Area



Supplementary Annexes are included in report 474a - UNI and comprise:
1.        Technical Aspects of Establishment and Production
2.        Farming Systems in the Project Area
3.        Federal Institutions
4.        Federal Department of Agriculture, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
5.        Cost Comparison between Small and Large-scale Palm Oil Mills
6.        Field Studies of Small-scale Processing System in Wild Palm Groves
7.        Road Improvement
8.        Fruit Collection
9.        Smallholder Operational Procedures
10.       Grant/Credit Arrangements with Smallholders
11.       Training
12.       Markets and Prices
13.       Production Estimates for the Project



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federal Military Government (FMG) has requested Bank assistance
to finance an oil palm project in East Central State. This report appraises
a smallholder oil palm project for which a US$19 million loan is proposed.
Nigeria's agriculture is primarily domestic market oriented. Output of
staple foods, animal products, palm oil, cotton fibre and a substantial part
of groundnut production - together accounting for about 90% of agricultural
production - is entirely consumed in the country. In 1973-74 agriculture
contributed about 41% of value-added and provided employment for around
70% of the labor force. However, agriculture is growing more slowly than
overall GDP, and its contribution to GDP is falling and is now 41% compared
with 65% in 1960.
ii.       The long-term strategy of FMG is to transform agriculture from its
present low technology semi-subsistence character to a modern, market oriented
sector with greater regional specialization. This will necessitate providing
incentives to encourage farmers to expand output and raise productivity and
ensuring that the necessary technology, inputs and infrastructure are avail-
able. The domestic market currently absorbs all of Nigeria's palm oil
production now estimated to be static at around 550,000 tons per annum.
Demand projections indicate that domestic consumption could reach 825,000
tons of palm oil by 1985, and additional production of nearly 275,000 tons
per annum would be required by then if Nigeria is to avoid becoming a major
importer. About 125,000 ha of new plantings of high yielding oil palms would
be needed to meet the projected shortfall. The project described in this
report aims at contributing to the above objectives by (a) applying improved
technology through the use of high yielding material, husbandry practice and
modern processing facilities, (b) increasing rural employment and thus redistri-
buting income, and (c) expanding production to meet the increased demand for
palm oil.
iii.      The project would be carried out over 9 years (1975-1983) and would
involve replanting about 16,000 ha of smallholder wild palm groves. The
replanting program would be implemented by a Smallholder Management Unit
(SMU) within the Ministry of Agricultural Extension (MAE). Grant/credit
in cash and kind to meet the costs of establishment and maintenance would
be channelled to smallholders through the SMU working in conjunction with
the registered cooperatives. 571 km of earth roads in the project area
would be improved to facilitate all-weather collection of fruit bunches.



- ii -
Nigerian staff and the smallholders would receive technical and manage-
ment training at selected institutions. A subsidiary of the Agricultural
Development Authority (ADA) would construct two central mills and estab-
lish a fruit collection system capable of handling the fruit from the pro-
ject smallholdings.
iv.       Project costs over the nine-year development period (1975-1983)
are estimated at N 24.7 million (US$37.5 million). The Bank loan of US$19
million would finance 50% of total project costs; it would be equivalent
to all foreign exchange costs (US$11.6 million) and 29% (US$7.4 million) of
local costs. The remainder of the project costs would be financed by the
State Government (US$16.5 million or 45%), and by the smallholders (US$2.0
million or 5%).
V.        Vehicles, road-making equipment, fertilizers, insecticides, polybags,
tools, and wire netting valued at about US$4.5 million would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines
for contracts valued over US$25,000. The oil mills - civil works and equipment -
valued at about US$5.6 million would be procured through a single responsibility
contract through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for build-
ings, office equipment, and some road construction (bridges) valued at about
US$0.6 million are not suitable for international competitive bidding because
of their size and location. Contracts for buildings and bridges would be
procured through competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts under
US$25,000 and for office equipment would be procured after inviting quotations
from at least three suppliers. Road construction valued at US$0.4 million
would be done by force account. A major part of project costs valued at
about US$10.3 million would be for smallholder labor, salaries, training and
the operating expenses of SMU; none of which would be suitable for any form of
competitive bidding. The services of expatriate staff and consultants would
be obtained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Domestically manu-
factured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import
duties, whichever is lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manufac-
turers. A 7.5% preference for domestic civil works contracts would apply.
vi.       At full development the project would produce annually about 35.2
thousand metric tons of palm oil for domestic consumption and 8.0 thousand
metric tons of kernels for export. Valued at the Bank's price forecast for
palm oil in 1985 current terms ($757 for palm oil and $504 for kernels), the
annual foreign exchange savings/earnings are estimated at US$26 million.
vii.      Based on a fresh fruit bunch price of N 19 per ton--smallholders
net income from 2 ha of oil palm would start at N 54.6 (US$83) in the first
year of production, rising to N 278 (US$423) during the loan repayment period
and thereafter would remain at N 350 (US$532) in maturity. The return per
manday employed would rise rapidly from N 1.0 (US$1.5) in the first year of
production to an average of N 4.2 (US$6.4) during the years of loan repayment
and N 5.8 (US$8.8) thereafter. This compares favorably with a current rural
wa-'e rate of N 0.65 per manday. In addition smallholders income would be
augmented by bonuses from mill revenue surpluses.



- iii -
viii.     Based on an average farm size of 2 ha, 8,000 farmers would parti-
cipate. With an average size of 6-7 persons per family, therefore, 52,000
people would benefit. During the establishment the project would create
12,500 manyears of employment and maintenance and harvesting would require
1,600 manyears annually at full maturity.
ix.       The estimated economic rate of return is 19.7%.
x.        On the basis of the assurances that were obtained during negotia-
tions, the project would be suitable for a US$19 million Bank loan, for a
period of 20 years including a five-year grace period on principal.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (DIC) has requested a
Bank Loan to help finance the planting of high yielding oil palms in its East
Central State. This report appraises a project that would establish 16,000
ha of smallholder plantings as Phase 1 of a program establishing 32,000 ha
of high yielding palms.
1.02      The first Bank Group loan for agricultural development in Nigeria
was the Western State Cocoa Project (764-UNI) in 1971 which was followed
by a loan for the Second Cocoa Project (Loan 1045-UNI) in 1974. The Bank is
the Executing Agency for the Nigerian Agricultural Bank Project financed by
UNDP, which became effective in March 1973. A rice project, three agricultural
development projects, and a livestock project have been approved by the Board
in December 1974, and an irrigation project and a rubber project have been
appraised and are being processed. The first cocoa project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1.03      The project was identified in November 1972 and prepared by a Bank
mission in March 1973. This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal
mission, composed of Messrs. J. Bevan, M. Crowe, R. van der Lugt (Bank), and
A. Bergan, J. Bogaerts, Osman Farruk, C. Hartley and C. Redfern (Consultants),
which visited Nigeria in November/December 1973 to appraise three palm oil
projects in the Western, Mid-Western, and East Central States. Details of
features common to all three projects are in a supplementary report, entitled
Supplementary Annexes to the Nigerian Oil Palm Projects Appraisal Reports
(474a-UNI).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      General.  The 12-State Federal Republic of Nigeria covers about
930,000 km2 and provisional results of a recent census indicate a population
of 80 million, growing at about 2.6% annually. About 41% of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), estimated at N 6.5 billion (US$9.9 billion) in 1973/74, is
generated in the agricultural sector which employs some 70% of the labor force.
In 1972, total domestic exports amounted to US$2.1 billion of which petroleum
represented about 82% (US$1.8 billion). The main agricultural exports are
cocoa and groundnut products. In 1972 agricultural exports were valued at
US$290 million or 12% of all exports.  Currently, the value of goods and
beverage imports is estimated at the relatively low figure of about US$2.6
per capita annually. Dairy products, wheat, and sugar are the principal food
imports.
2.02      Agricultural Sector.  Agriculture, including livestock, forestry
and fishing, is the most important sector in terms of output and employment;
provides all but a small proportion of the nation's supply of food; and is
a significant earner of foreign exchange. Nigeria's agriculture is primarily
domestic market oriented. Output of staple foods, animal products, palm oil,



- 2-
cotton fibre, and a substantial part of groundnut production - together account-
ing for over 90% of agricultural production - is entirely consumed in the
country. However, agriculture is growing more slowly than overall GDP, and
its contribution to GDP is falling and now is 41% compared with about 46% in
1971 and 65% in 1960. While agricultural production has been hampered by
short-term factors, such as drought in parts of the north in 1972/73 and
1973/74, the poor performance of the sector reflects agricultural and rural
development programs that generally are inadequate in terms of physical extent
and quality.
2.03      Because of Nigeria's wide range of ecological conditions agricul-
cural activity, while varied, is highly specialized by region and function.
Thus the rain forest zone, covering Western, Mid-Western, East Central, South
Eastern and River States, is characterized by relatively high rainfall and
cultivation of most of the tropical tree crops. Of the most important, cocoa
is dominant in Western State; oil palm, mostly wild, grows throughout but
with marked concentration in East Central and South Eastern States; and rubber
is most important in the Mid-Western State. Cassava, yams, and cocoyams are the
main food crops of the rain forest zone followed by maize and rice. The
middle belt of the country, which includes the Kwara and Benue Plateau States,
and the southern portions of the North Western, North Central, and North
Eastern States, constitutes an intermediate savannah zone (the Guinea Zone)
well-suited for arable agriculture. Sorghum and pulses are the principal
crops, but there are also sizeable acreages under root crops, groundnuts,
and cotton. The dry savannah zone (the Sudan Zone) of the far north, en-
compassing Kano State and the northern parts of North Western, North Central,
and North Eastern States, produces most of Nigeria's sorghum, millet, cowpeas,
cotton, and groundnuts. This northern area, unlike most of the rest of the
country is tsetse fly and trypanosomiasis free and the main cattle raising
area of Nigeria.
2.04      The long-term strategy of FMG is to transform agriculture from its
present low technology semi-subsistence character to a modern, market oriented
sector with greater regional specialization. This will necessitate providing
incentives to encourage farmers to expand output and raise productivity and
ensuring that the necessary technology, inputs, and infrastructure are avail-
able to permit farmers to respond to such incentives. There are several
constraints to implementing this strategy and these include: transport and
distribution bottlenecks; inadequate machinery for planning, coordinating
and implementing a national policy for rural and agricultural development;
insufficient experienced manpower particularly at senior management level;
and shortages of improved seeds, fertilizers, chemicals, credit, and other
farm inputs. The project described in this report would remove these con-
straints in so far as the oil palm subsector in the East Central State is
concerned.
2.05      Oil Palm Production.  Oil palm grows throughout Southern Nigeria
but the center of palm oil production is the three eastern States. Approxi-
mately 90% of production is from semi-wild oil palm groves operated by small-
holders. These groves cover about 2.5 million ha and produce around 2.5 tons



- 3 -
of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) per ha which yield about 200 to 225 kg of palm
oil and around 135 kg of kernels. Total Nigerian production is estimated at
about 550,000 tons of oil and 300,000 tons of kernels. Exports of palm oil,
which were valued at N 22 million in 1966, are now being displaced by domestic
demand. Demand projections indicate that domestic consumption could reach
825,000 tons by 1985 and thus require production of an additional 275,000
tons per annum by that time if Nigeria is to avoid importing palm oil. About
125,000 ha of new plantings of high yielding oil palms would be needed to meet
the projected shortfall. The three oil palm projects in Western, Mid-Western,
and East Central States that have been appraised by the Bank (see para 1.03)
would produce about 100,000 tons of palm oil when at full maturity in 1990.
2.06      Institutions.  The main institutions involved in the project would
be the Ministry of Agricultural Extension (MAE), the Agricultural Development
Authority (ADA), 1/ and the cooperatives (see Annex 1).
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area lies in a region covering some 360,000 ha and
comprising that part of the State extending south of the Umuahia-Owerri road
and west of a line running south from Umuahia to, and then along, the State
boundary. See Map 10965.
3.02      Climate.  Mean annual rainfall ranges from 2,126 mm (83.7
in) at Umuahia to 2,438 mm (96.0 in) at Owerri with a tendency for the
rainfall to increase towards the southwest. There is a marked dry season
from mid-November to early March and the mean annual water deficit is
estimated between 250 and 300 mm. Sunshine at Umudike near Umuahia averages
1,777 hours per annum. The mean annual temperature lies between 260 and
270C. For West Africa conditions are relatively good for oil palms.
3.03      Vegetation.  The area is an integral and important part of the
"palm belt."  The wild palm groves are almost continuous, with palm densities
reaching over 150 palms per ha in the denser groves.  Most of the area is
heavily populated, and food crop cultivation, using fallow periods as short
as two years in some areas, is practised both within and between the groves.
There has been some felling of very tall palms to give more land and light
for food crops, and in some areas the palms are severely pruned, which reduces
their already low yield. West of Owerri the grove palms are less dense and
the periods df fallow tend to be longer.
3.04      Between 1962 and 1967 an estimated 15,600 ha of grove were replanted
with NIFOR selected tenera material and a further 3,600 ha were established on
farm settlements. These plantings were of varying standard but the majority
1/   To implement its component of the project ADA would establish a subsidiary
company.



- 4 -
suffered severely from neglect during the civil war. Eupatorium odoratum 1/
is present throughout the region.
3.05      Topography.  The rnorthern part of the area is bisected by the Imo
River. In the northwest the area is drained by the Otamiri and Ogochia
Rivers. The area has an elevation of 60-110 m above sea level and is flat or
gently undulating. The slopes towards the main rivers tend to be long and
gradual.
3.06      Soils.  About 80% of the area lies on the red Benin fasc of the Acid
Sands soils. The remainder, south of a line running east-west some three miles
north of Aba, is on the yellow Calabar fasc soils. In Ukwa division the latter
soils contain appreciable areas of deep sands of very low clay content and
for phase 1 of the program this division has been excluded except for its north-
west projection.
3.07      All the soils of the area have been degraded by frequent farming,
but the majority are capable of giving satisfactory bunch yields with correct
manuring. On the wide areas of flat or gently undulating land the soils have
a satisfactory clay content which increases down the profile. On the long
slopes towards the main rivers however sandier soils are encountered and in
the selection of participating smallholders these areas would be avoided.
3.08      Population.  The former Owerri and Umuahia Provinces, in which the
project area is located, have estimated populations of 3.0 million and 1.25 mil-
lion respectively; with an overall density in the order of 400 per sq km, they
are amongst the most densely populated rural areas in Africa. The project area
covers some 3,600 sq km and thus may include a population of 1.4 million or
more. The average size of family is about 6 to 7, and with an estimated 80%
of households engaged in agriculture, the project area may involve over 175,000
farming families. In view of the shortage of employment opportunities the
availability of labor will not be a constraint.
3.09      Land Tenure.  Generally land is vested in the various communities
with any transactions being under the direct control of the head of the com-
munity in consultation with the chiefs and elders. Land may be given (though
unrecorded) by the community to an individual as his personal and disposable
property. Alternatively, land may be given by the community to a family 2/
under the provision that the head of the family may transfer it outside the
family only with the consent and sanction of the elders. Although title to
land is generally unrecorded, family and individual rights are usually well
known and accepted within the community. In general the traditional system
provides adequate security of tenure for the planting of permanent crops by
natives of a community, though not necessarily for outsiders. There is an
increasing tendency towards individual ownership in some areas and in these
tenancy on land belonging to absentees is common. Under the project, however,
1/   A noxious weed of comparatively recent introduction to Nigeria which
adversely affects oil palm establishment.
2/  T'mily usually means the extended family and may include several generations.



- 5 -
the aim would be through the selection process (para. 6.04) to restrict parti-
cipation to smallholders who are directly engaged in farming, and assurances
to this effect were obtained.
3.10      Farming Systems in the Project Area.  While traditionally based
upon a shifting cultivation system of arable crop farming, population pressure
has necessitated a continued shortening of fallow periods.  Typically, however,
three years of food crop cultivation (yam, maize, cassava, cocoyam) are followed
by about three years' fallow.  Farm sizes tend to be small and it is estimated
that the average area cultivated under food crops is about 0.5 ha, though this
conceals a wide variation in size of holdings and a high degree of fragmentation.
Virtually all farming operations are carried out by manual labor. Many farm
families supplement their income by exploiting the wild palm groves.
3.11      Communications.  The East Central State has a well developed communi-
cations system. A dense network of hardtop and natural soil roads serves the
project area, although most roads are deteriorated and need upgrading (para
4.07 and Annex 4).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Objectives
4.01      The project area is well suited to oil palm cultivation, it is served
by a good network of roads, labor is not a constraint, and a smallholder re-
planting project is feasible. Smallholder development is not linked with a
nucleus estate as is the case in the other oil palm projects (see para 1.03).
However, ADA plans to develop estates and a feasibility study is being under-
taken. This study will be completed early in 1975. (See para 6.12.)
4.02      The project involving planting some 16,000 ha of oil palm would be
carried out over nine years (1975 through 1983) and be Phase I of a program
scheduled to plant about 32,000 ha of smallholder oil palm during the period
1975 through 1986.
4.03      The project would comprise:
(a)  establishing a Smallholder Management Unit (SMU) within the
Ministry of Agricultural Extension (MAE) to implement the
planting program;
(b)  replanting 16,000 ha of smallholder wild palm groves;
(c)  improving about 571 km of earth roads to facilitate all-weather
collection of ffb from smallholders;



- 6 -
(d)  operating a grant/credit scheme for smallholders;
(e)  training staff and smallholders at selected institutions and
through in-service courses;
(f)  the construction and operation of two palm oil mills by the
subsidiary of the Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) to
process the fruit produced by the project smallholders;
(g)  establishing a fruit collection system to be operated by ADA's
subsidiary for smallholder production.
B. Detailed Features
4.04      Details of the phasing of the project planting program are at
Annex 2.
Smallholders
4.05      Smallholders Management Unit (SMU).  The SMU would have its head-
quarters at Umuahia with regional units at Umuahia, Owerri and Aba. The
SMU would be responsible for appraising smallholder applications for credits
and grants and for supervising the technical and financial services involved
in the field establishment and post maturity stages. Details of the SMU's
structure and functions are given in paras 6.02 - 6.06 and in Annex 3.
4.06      Smallholder Planting.  The project would establish 16,000 ha of small-
holder planting within a 37 km radius of the two palm oil mills. To facilitate
ffb collection plantings would be restricted to areas within 600 meters of a
road usable by tractor/trailers or 7-ton trucks all year round. Details of
planting and maintenance procedures are in the Supplementary Annexes (Supplement
1).
4.07      Road Improvement.  No major realignment of roads is anticipated but
paved and earth roads need upgrading. The fruit collection road network (shown
on map 10965) is 946 km of which 375 km is paved roads. The paved roads would
be upgraded (filling potholes, clearing ditches, reshaping shoulders, and some
resurfacing) by the Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT). This work is esti-
mated to cost N 560,000 (US$850,000); this amount is not included in the project
costs, as it would form part of MWT's routine expenditure in the period 1976-
1980. The cost of improving 571 km of earth roads is included under the project
and would be carried out by a road unit under SMU. MWT would become repsonsible
for the maintenance of all fruit collection roads once they have been upgraded.
Annual maintenance costs are estimated at N 280,000 (US$430,000). Details are
in Annex 4. Assurances were obtained that in the project areas MWT would im-
prove the paved roads, and would take over and properly maintain all fruit
collection roads once they have been upgraded.
4.08      Grant and Credit Scheme.  Producer prices for palm oil destined for
the export market have been maintained well below world prices since the Second
World War, and Marketing Board surpluses generated in this way have been used



in other sectors of the economy (para 7.04). Consequently, until the very
recent disappearance of palm oil surplus to domestic needs there has been
very little incentive for farmers to plant even high yielding improved oil
palms, and the industry has stagnated. In the early 1960s an oil palm reha-
bilitation scheme was introduced in the Eastern Region (now East-Central,
Rivers, and South-Eastern States) under which the problem of incentives was
overcome by providing smallholders with grants consisting of cash payments,
planting material and other farm inputs for new planting/replanting oil palm.
Under the project somewhat different arrangements would be used to reflect
currently much higher palm oil prices and grants in kind and credits in cash
would be provided to farmers.  Combined with fair producer prices (see paras
4.15, 7.07 and 7.09) this should provide adequate incentives for farmers to
plant oil palms that take nearly four years to come into bearing and produce
revenue.
4.09      The project would provide grants and credits to smallholders plant-
ing, or replanting, a minimum of 1 ha and a maximum of 10 ha. One hectare
is the smallest unit that is considered practical to administer under the
project; while at maturity more than 10 ha would require the average extended
farm family to hire labor for its oil palm and food crop cultivation. Partic-
ipating smallholders would be required to be members of a registered cooperative
society. The FMG with the assistance of FAO is instituting a major program for
the development of farmers cooperatives. In view of this there should be no
problem in finding sufficient numbers of farmers who are members of registered
cooperatives. Project farmers would be required to sign agreements with SMU
and their cooperative relating to the amount and use of grant/credit. Assurances
were obtained that these arrangements would be employed and that the terms of the
agreements would be acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      The total costs of clearing, planting and maintaining oil palms
until they enter into production four years later are estimated in constant
1974 terms at about N 320/ha. SMU would distribute: (a) as a grant, and in
kind, palm seedlings, cover crop seed, wire netting, fertilizer and chemicals
to a value of about N 170/ha; and (b) as credit, in cash, N100/ha for payment
of labor (see Supplementary Annexes Supplement 10). The credit would bear in-
terest at 9.5% and have a term of 13 years from planting including 7 years
grace during which interest would be capitalized. The smallholder would con-
tribute the balance of about N 50/ha in the form of labor and hand tools.
Monthly repayments would be calculated on a per ha basis and deducted from
the proceeds of each smallholder's ffb sales. In constant 1974 terms monthly
repayments by the smallholder would amount to N 3.00 per ha (interest at 9.5%)
and the cooperative would repay to SMU N 2.50 monthly (interest at 7.5%).
The loan agreement between SMU, the cooperative, and the smallholder would
include an undertaking by the smallholder to sell his ffb to the central
processing mill. See paras 4.16, 5.06 and 6.06.
4.11      Training.  Technical training would be provided for Senior Officers,
Nursery Staff, Field Staff, and Smallholders. A training schedule and cost
estimates are given in Annex 5, Table 8. Where training facilities are not
available staff would be trained elsewhere in West Africa and for some senior
officers possibly in the Far East. Funding for the latter possibility is
included in project costs.



- 8 -
4.12      Senior Officers (Agricultural Officer (AO) or above) would be given
6-months training in planting techniques and management on large-scale oil
palm development schemes or commercial estates using appropriate husbandry
standards. Agricultural Assistants (MA) designated to supervise nurseries
would receive special training for twelve months in nursery techniques so as
to cover a complete schedule of nursery operations from the germinated seed
stage to field planting. Field staff (Agricultural Assistants) would be given
a 2-3 months intensive course in modern planting techniques at the Nigerian
Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR) followed by 2-3 months practical train-
ing in the supervision of field operations on existing estates. In addition,
all field staff would be trained in smallholder appraisal and grant/credit
supervision procedures. Smallholder training would be developed on a group
activity basis and would include (a) outlining application/appraisal procedures
and conditions of loan agreements, (b) demonstration of specific planting prac-
tices, and (c) short courses of 1 to 2-day duration.
Agricultural Development Authority (ADA)
4.13      Palm Oil Processing Mills.  At full maturity in 1988 project produc-
tion of ffb would be some 160,000 tons; about 75Z of this quantity will come from
the eastern and the balance from the western part of the project area. A 30-ton
per hour mill will be constructed in the eastern part of the project area and a
10-ton line of equipment will be installed in a mill that ADA would build in
the western part to cater for the production of its planned estates (see para
6.12 and Annex 3, para 18). The build-up in required mill capacity would be:
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985 onwards
--(--------tons of ffb/hour)----------
Eastern area         10      10     20      20         30
Western area          -       -     10      10         10
4.14      Although sites have not been finally decided, the mill in the eastern
part of the project area could be constructed near Owerri-Nta and in the western
part of the project area a mill could be constructed at Ihiagwa on the river
Otamari.  Expansion of the Owerri-Nta Mill to 30 tons per hour in 1985 would
be financed from retained earnings and is not part of project costs. ADA's
subsidiary would undertake to engage consultants acceptable to the State and
the Bank to prepare the design and tender specifications for the new palm oil
mills. Assurances to this effect were obtained. The undertaking would also
be incorporated in the subsidiary loan agreement between the State and ADA's
subsidiary.
4.15      Confirmation by $MU and the Tree Crop Section of the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (see para 4.19) that the mill development proposals of
ADA's subsidiary were in line with the projects overall production program
would be a condition of disbursement for investments in the mill and fruit
collection system (para 4.17). In addition assurances were obtained that
ADA's subsidiary would adopt a pricing formula for the purchase of ffb from



- 9 -
smallholders determined, in accordance with principles acceptable to the Bank,
by a Price Policy Connittee, which would be established not later than 1980
and which would comprise representatives of the Ministries of Finance and
Agriculture, the Registrar of Cooperative, ADA, ADA's subsidiary, SMU, Market-
ing Board, NPMC, and the Smallholders. See Annex 3.
4.16      SMU would be responsible for ensuring that an acceptable percentage
(to be agreed with ADA's subsidiary) of the estimated production of small-
holders ffb is delivered to the mills. Any financial losses incurred by the
mills of ADA's subsidiary as a result of deliveries falling below this figure
would be made good to ADA's subsidiary by the State Government. Assurances
to this effect were obtained.
4.17      Fruit Collection System.  At full maturity in 1988 annual produc-
tion from smallholder would be about 160,000 tons; 75% from the eastern, and
25% from the western part of the project area. During the peak month, about
800 tons of ffb would have to be collected each day. In the western part of
the project area smallholders would be within a 20 km radius of the palm oil
mill, but in the eastern part distances would range up to 37 km. Therefore
a single stage fruit collection system is proposed in the western and a two-
stage fruit collection system is proposed in the eastern part of the project
area. In the two-stage fruit collection system, tractors with trailers would
collect the fruit from the smallholders and haul it to central collection
points, from where tipper trucks would transport the fruit to the mill.
4.18      The maximuin distance that participating smallholders would have to
carry bunches to a roadside pick-up point would be about 600 meters. The
bunches would be heaped in nets on the roadside to await collection, and the
smallholders would be informed well in advance of the time-table for the de-
livery of nets and subsequent fruit collection. The bunches would be loaded
on to trucks, or tractor/trailers as the case may be, by rear mounted cranes
fitted with scales that would register the weight of the smallholder's fruit
at the pick-up point. The smallholder would be given a receipt showing the
weight of the bunches collected, the grade and the price. For details see
Annex 4.
Evaluation and Research
4.19      Evaluation and Research is an important feature of all three oil
palm projects (para 1.03). The Tree Crop Section in the Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit of the Federal Department of Agriculture would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluating the project. All evaluation and research has, how-
ever, been costed as part of the Mid-Western State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder
Oil Palm Project, processed concurrently with this project, and details can
be found in appraisal report, No. 497a-UNI.



- 10 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGENENTS
Project Costs
5.01      Project costs over the development period 1975-1983 are detailed
at Annex 5 and summarized in the following table:
Foreign
------ Naira'000 ------   -------US '000--------  Exchange
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total         Z
Smallholder Field
Establishment          3,499   1,652    5,151   5,319   2,511    7,830          32
51U Capital Costs           74      65       139      113      99       212      47
SMU Personnel Costs        912     169    1,081   1,387       257    1,644       15
SMU Recurrent Costs         74      54       128      112      82       194      42
Regional Unit Capital
Costs                    215      198       413      326     301       627     48
Regional Unit
Personnel Costs        1,993      167    2,160   3,030       254    3,284        7
Regional Unit
Recurrent Costs           133     109       242     202      165       367      45
Road Program               280     133       413      426     202       628      32
Training                   109      83       192      166     125       291      43
Mill Investment (ADA)  2,307   1,485    3,792   3,507   2,257    5,764           39
Fruit Collection
Investment (ADA)          186     198       384      282     301       583      52
Sub Total               9,782   4,313   14,095  14,870   6,554   21,424          31
Physical Contingen-
cies (5.5%) /1           538      242       780     818      368    1,186      31
Price Contingencies
(66%) /2               6,780   3,045    9,825  10,306   4,628   14,934         31
Total Project Costs   17,100   7,600   24,700  25,994  11,550   37,544           31
/1   As percentage of base costs.
/2   As percentage of base costs and physical contingencies.
5.02      The estimates are based on prices ruling at January 1, 1974.  They
include indirect taxes and duties amounting to about N 420,000 (US$640,000).
Physical contingencies comprise 12% of the cost of civil works for the oil
mills and 5% of other costs. Price contingencies, calculated over base costs
and physical contingencies, allow for: compounded increase in the costs of
(a) civil works, buildings, and houses, of 18% in 1974, 15% in 1975, and 12%
annually thereafter; (b) vehicles, office and mill equipment, nonlabor farm
inputs of 14% in 1974, 11% in 1975 and 7-1/2% annually thereafter; and (c) labor,
salaries, operating cost, consultancy services, and training, of 7% annually.



Financing Arrangements
5.03      The overall financing plan has been discussed and agreed with the
Federal and State Governments and takes account of FMG's decision that each
State will be responsible for the balance of project costs. The financing
plan (see also Annex 6) is summarized in the following table.
Financing Plan
IBRD       STATE       FARMER      TOTAL
------- million -----------… -----
Smallholder Program
Field Establishment                  3.2         1.1         0.8          5.1
smu                                  1.7         3.1          -          4.8
ADA Program                          2.1         2.1 /1       -          4.2
Unallocated                          5.4         4.7         0.5         10.6
Total                         12.4         11.0         1.3        24.7
--------------$ million-----------------
Smallholder Program
Field Establishment                  5.0         1.6         1.2          7.8
SMU                                  2.6         4.6          -           7.2
ADA Program                          3.2         3.2 /1       -           6.4
Unallocated                          8.2         7.1         0.8         16.1
Total                         19.0         16.5         2.0        37.5
50%         45%          5%         100%
/1   The State Government would make an equity contribution to ADA's sub-
sidiary company (not included as a project cost) to cover working
capital requirements during the development period estimated at about
N 0.75 million (US$1.1 million).
5.04      The Bank loan of US$19.0 million would finance 50% of total project
costs; it would be equivalent to all foreign exchange costs (US$11.6 million)
and 29% (US$7.4 million) of local costs. The loan would be for a period of
20 years, including a five-year grace period on repayment of principal. The
Bank loan, would be onlent to the State Government on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The remaining project costs would be financed by
the State Government (US$16.5 million), and smallholders (US$2.0 million).



- 12 -
5.05      The State would onlend part of the Bank loan and make its own con-
tribution, totalling US$13.6 million, to ADA's subsidiary at a rate not less
than the Bank's lending rate 1/ for a period of 20 years including a nine-year
grace period for repayment of principal. The State Government would use the
remainder of the Bank loan and its own contribution to finance SMU (US$11.0
million), as well as the grants (US$6.9 million) and credits (US$4.0 million)
to the smallholders. Credits made to smallholders would be channeled through
the cooperatives, which in consideration for their guaranteeing smallholders'
loans would receive an interest spread of 2X (see para 4.10). From its own
funds the State Government would make an equity contribution to ADA's sub-
sidiary company (not part of project costs) estimated at N 750,000 (US$1.1 mil-
lion), to cover working capital in the development period (see Annex 10, Table 1).
5.06      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the terms and
conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement between FMG and the State Govern-
ment would be acceptable to the Bank; and also that the terms and conditions
of the subsidiary loan agreement between the State and ADA's subsidiary would
be acceptable to the Bank. Signing of these two subsidiary loan agreements
would be a condition of effectiveness. Subscription to ADA's equity by the
State Government during the development period would be in accordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank, and assurances to this effect were obtained.
Assurances were also obtained that the terms and conditions of the loan agree-
ment between SMU, cooperatives and smallholders would be acceptable to the Bank.
It was agreed that from the date of the ending of loan negotiations retro-
active financing of up to $100,000 would be made mainly for the employment of
key personnel and for nurseries.
Procurement
5.07      Vehicles, road-making equipment, fertilizers, insecticides, polybags,
tools, and wire netting valued at about US$4.5 million would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines for
contracts valued over US$25,000. The oil mills - civil works and equipment -
valued at about US$5.6 million would be procured through a single responsibility
contract through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for build-
ings, office equipment, and some road construction (bridges) valued at about
US$0.6 million are not suitable for international competitive bidding because
of their size and location. Contracts for buildings and bridges would be
procured through competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts under
US$25,000 and for office equipment would be procured after inviting quotations
from at least three suppliers. Road construction valued at US$0.4 million
would be done by force account. A major part of project costs valued at about
US$10.3 million would be for smallholder labor, salaries, training and the
operating expenses of SMU; none of which would be suitable for any form of
competitive bidding. The services of expatriate staff and consultants would
be obtained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Domestically
I/   For calculating purposes an onlending rate to ADA's subsidiary of 9%
was assumed.



- 13 -
manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import
duties, whichever is lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manu-
facturers. A 7.5% preference for domestic civil works contracts would apply.
Disbursement
5.08      The Bank loan would be disbursed over nine years from 1975 through
1983 (see also Annex 6) to cover:
(i)  75% of grants and credits to smallholders, totalling
N 3.3 million (US$5.0 million);
(ii)  35% of SMU's costs totalling N 1.7 million (US$2.6 million);
(iii)  50% of the costs of ADA's subsidiary totalling N 2.1 million
(US$3.2 million);
An unallocated amount of N 5.4 million (US$8.2 million) would cover contin-
gencies on the above items. Any surplus loan funds after completion of the
project would be cancelled.
5.09      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be against import documentation,
contracts, and certified records of expenditure. For disbursements made against
certified records of expenditure, documentation would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by SMU and ADA's subsidiary for scrutiny by Bank
supervision missions.
5.10      In order to achieve a prompt and efficient flow of funds the
following procedures would be used: SMU would prepare reimbursement claims
under the signature of its General Manager and Controller of Finance.  These
documents would be countersigned by the State Ministry of Finance who would
submit them to the Federal Ministry of Finance for onward transmission to the
Bank. ADA's subsidiary would prepare reimbursement claims under the signature
of its manager and chief accountant.
Accounts and Audits
5.11      SMU would prepare annual budgets using cost estimates in this report
as a base, amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs and project
development policies. Such budgets would be submitted to the Steering Committee
for approval. SMU would thereafter establish, on a monthly basis, cash flow
statements indicating costs, revenues and additional capital requirements.
Such monthly statements would be submitted to the Steering Committee for moni-
toring but project management would be authorized to operate on such monthly
budgets unless officially informed to the contrary by the Chairman of the Steer-
ing Committee.
5.12      On the basis of the approved SMU budget, the State Government would
make annual budget allocations to cover its own contribution to project costs
as well as any additional funds required to bridge the gap between expenditure



- 14 -
and disbursement of the Bank loan.  Assurances were obtained from the State
Government during negotiations that a project bank account would be opened with
a bank of their choice, and that SMU would have full access to funds within the
limitations of the approved annual budget. It would be a condition of loan
effectiveness that such account had been established and funded.
5.13      Assurances were obtained that ADA's subsidiary and SMU would: (i)
keep records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices, their operations and financial position; (ii) have
their accounts audited by a firm of auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii)
submit copies of their audited accounts and the auditors' reports thereon
to the Bank within four months of the end of each financial year; (iv) cause
the reports of the auditors to be of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably have requested; and (v) furnish such other information concerning
their accounts as the Bank may reasonably have required.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      Project implementation would involve: the Smallholder Management
Unit (SMU), and the Agricultural Development Authority (ADA).
Smallholder Management Unit(SMU)
6.02      General.  SMU would be responsible for the smallholder program.
SMU would have a high degree of financial and administrative autonomy and
would be a component of the Ministry of Agricultural Extension (MAE). It
would be a condition of effectiveness that SMU had been established and
its senior management positions filled. A Steering Committee chaired by
the Permanent Secretary of MAE comprised of relevant Government agencies
would be responsible for determining SMU policy and approving development/
operational programs and budgets. Details of the SMU's structure and
operational procedures are given in Annex 3. A consulting firm acceptable
to Government and the Bank would be engaged to set up a system of mechan-
ized accounts that would meet the needs of the project and assurances to
this effect were obtained.
6.03      Management Structure and Staffing.  The structure of SMU is outlined
in the Chart attached to Annex 3.  The SMU would be headquartered at Umuahia
and have regional units at Umuahia, Owerri, and Aba. SMU would be staffed
primarily with personnel now employed by MAE or recruited especially for the
purpose in Nigeria. However, the technical and financial complexity of the
project will demand well qualified and experienced staff (see Annex 3, para 7),
and if suitably qualified Nigerians were not available to fill the SMU senior
management posts, staff for these posts would be recruited internationally.
Assurances were obtained that SMU would be established in a form satisfactory
to the Bank and that it would be adequately staffed at all times; that SMU's
Steering Committee would have been established not later than 90 days after



loan effectiveness; and that senior management positions of SMU would be
filled by qualified persons acceptable to the Bank and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.04      Operational Procedures.  Notices calling for applications from small-
holders and giving details of the scheme would be publicized through such media
as local newspapers, radio and public administration offices. To facilitate
the efficient employment of field staff, particularly in the year of planting
when the heaviest intensity of farm visits is required, a system of zonal
development would be used. Thus in any given year applications for participation
would be restricted to specific zones within the project area. Any shortfall
in applications from a primary zone could be catered for by having an adjacent
reserve zone from which applications could be requested but only accepted in
the event of there being a shortfall in the primary zone. Applications would
be called at the beginning of January of the year preceding the year of planting
and the closing date would be the end of March in the same year. On receipt of
the application, the smallholdings would be inspected by SMU staff to obtain
details of vegetation, topography, soil type, size of holding, the composition
of the family labor force available, and, in consultation with the cooperatives,
the credit status of the farmer. Applications would be approved by a Planting
Authorization Conriittee (PAC) composed of SMU's General Manager as chairman,
the Controller of Field Operation, the Controller of Finance and a representa-
tive of the cooperative societies.
6.05      SMU staff would provide technical supervision and advice and ensure
in particular that: (i) if Eupatorium infestation covered more than 30% of
the area, the weeds were cleared before an application was approved; (ii) all
old palm trees were felled before new planting/replanting; and (iii) in order
to prevent encroachment into the root systems area of the young palms, no inter-
cropping would be permitted in the new plantings of palms. Assurances were
obtained that maintenance of suitable husbandry standards including those
specified above would be a condition of smallholder participation in the pro-
ject.
6.06      Purchase of Smallholder ffb.  Every two weeks the mill would provide
SMU with a schedule of ffb purchased, and amounts due to smallholders, and
credit the SMU account with the appropriate funds. SMU, after deducting loan
repayments due to the State Government, would pay the balance due to each
cooperative in respect of its members. The cooperatives after deducting the
interest spread would distribute the balance to its members. The cooperatives
would guarantee the repayment of the loans by their members. (See para 4.10)
Agricultural Development Authority
6,07      The Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) of the East Central
State uas established by an edict dated May 21, 1973, but taking effect from
January 1, 1973. The edict provides that "the Authority, in pursuit of agri-
cultural development, shall be engaged in the production, processing, storing,
packaging, marketing, development and manufacture of agricultural products."



- 16 -
6.08      The edict also provides that the Board shall consist of:  (a) the
Administrator (Chairman); (b) the Commissioner for Natural Resources and
Agricultural Extension 1/ (Deputy Chairman); (c) the President; (d) three other
persons appointed by the Administrator.  The senior management of ADA includes
the President, the Executive Vice-President, Secretary/Vice-President Admin-
istration, Financial Controller (also a Vice-President), and Chief of Operations.
6.09      ADA took over all the projects of the Ministry of Agriculture that
were designed to be revenue earning. There are presently over 60 projects,
mostly in food crop production but also rubber and oil palm estates, represent-
ing a total investment of over N 2.6 million. Few of the projects are profit-
able (although many of them are still in the development stage); they showed
an overall net loss of some N 400,000 in the year ended March 31, 1973.
6.10      ADA's management is conscious of the need to put its operations on
a sound commercial basis. It intends to discontinue or dispose of investments
which show no prospect of becoming profitable. It sees ADA's future role as
that of identifying and developing profitable opportunities in agriculture
and of encouraging private investors to participate in, or take over, projects
as they develop.
6.11      Under the proposed project, ADA would be responsible for the estab-
lishment and operation of the oil mills and fruit collection system. For
this purpose it would form a subsidiary company. ADA also proposes to ask
SOCFINCO for management assistance; the detailed arrangements have still to
be defined and negotiated. SOCFINCO is an associate of SOCFIN (Societe
Financiere des Caoutchoucs) a Belgian company, and of the Dutch company HVA.
These companies, or their associates, have provided management assistance to
a number of Bank Group projects, including the oil palm project in Ivory
Coast and the sugar project in Ghana. The establishment by ADA of a sub-
sidiary company with a management structure acceptable to the Bank would be
a condition of loan effectiveness. In addition, assurances were obtained
that the posts of General Manager, Chief Accountant and Oil Mill Engineers
in the new subsidiary company, would be filled by people with qualifications
and experience and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
6.12      SOCFINCO will complete in early 1975 a feasibility study for an
estate program of about 40,000 ha. ADA also proposes to retain SOCFINCO
services for the establishment of the estates and related palm oil mills
that will be proposed in the feasibility study.
1/   As announced by the East Central State Government in its budget message
of May 1974, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Agricultural Extension
has been split into two ministries namely the Ministry of Agricultural
Production and Animal Husbandry (MAPAH) and the Ministry of Agricultural
Extension (MAE). ADA will now report directly to MAPAH instead of to the
State Administrator as before, and SMU will be under MAE.



VII1. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMER BENEFITS,
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS TO GOVERNMENT
Ylelds and Production
1 C,      Oil palms would begin yielding in the fourth year after planting.  At
:'Atl maturity smallholder plantings are expected to yield 10 tons per ha. Oil
to ffb extraction rates are assumed to rise from 16% in the first year of
harvesting reaching 22% at full maturity; the weight of kernels is estimated
at 5% of ffb. These yield estimates and extraction levels are generally in
line with those experienced with equivalent planting material under similar
ecological conditions in West Africa.
7.02      At full maturity in 1988 the project would produce annually about
35,200 tons of palm oil and 8,000 tons of palm kernels. See Annex 7.
Markets and Prices
7.03      In 1970, production of palm oil in Nigeria was estimated to be about
490,000 tons of which all but 9,000 tons was consumed in the domestic market.
This is in marked contrast to earlier years when exports were considerable:
for example in 1960 production was 545,000 tons and exports 189,000 tons.
Based on an expected population growth rate of almost 3% per annum, a projected
per capita income growth of 3% per annum and an income elasticity coefficient
for palm oil of 0.5, household consumption of raw oil should increase at rough-
ly 4.5% per annum until 1980, reaching a total of 690,000 tons in 1980, or
about 8.8 kg per capita. During the early 1980s per capita consumption can be
expected to level off, and domestic consumption should increase at about 3.25%
per annum. This would result in a project domestic consumption of about
810,000 tons by 1985. When the total estimated demand for palm oil from local
processors, such as manufacturers of margarine and soap, is added, the aggregate
domestic demand in Nigeria is expected to be around 700,000 tons in 1980, and
825,000 tons in 1985. The projections indicate that by 1985, and without a
major oil palm development program, there will be a shortfall of around 275,000
tons of palm oil that will have to be supplied through imports.
7.04      The East Central State Marketing Board (ECSMB) is authorized, under
current legislation, to purchase all palm oil and kernels offered for sale.
This is a legacy from times when Nigeria was a major exporter of palm oil and
of kernels. Under the old arrangement ECSMB bought whatever oil was surplus
to domestic requirements and exported this through the Nigerian Produce Market-
ing, Company (NFMC). The amounts of oil available for export in the East
Central State have declined rapidly in recent years and are now nonexistent.
As there is almost no domestic market for palm kernels or for palm kernel
products - palm kernel oil and cake - the great bulk of these continue to be
exported through the medium of ECSMB and NPMC. As the Marketing Board
functioned in the past as much as a taxation mechanism as a price stabiliza-
tion agency, it has jealously guarded its rights to purchase palm oil surplus
to domestic needs. In particular it has tended to treat the production from
oil palm companies as being in the latter category. In recent years, however,



- 18 -
it has permitted companies to sell oil on the domestic market although it
would appear to retain the power to purchase their oil. Given this situation
assurances were obtained that ADA's subsidiary would be permitted to sell its
palm oil produced under the project freely on the domestic market. This
assurance is required to ensure that ADA's subsidiary and the smallholders
would receive full market value for their production.
7.05      Domestic prices of palm oil have risen considerably during the last
few years. Thus the average wholesale price of special grade oil in Ibadan
rose from about N 160 per ton in 1971 to about N 200 per ton in 1972 and about
N 240 in 1973. Significant seasonal price variations result in average
December-January prices of palm oil being nearly 50% higher than the average
April-May prices. Because of the increase in prices for palm oil, small-
holders have also obtained higher prices for their ffb, although it should
be remembered that presently smallholdings have very low yields.
7.06      The Marketing Board purchases virtually all palm kernels offered for
sale and until recently farmers receive about N 47 per ton; however, FMG has
announced that the price for the 1974/75 period would be N 135/ton. Kernels
were normally exported unprocessed but in recent years there has been consider-
ably increased investment in kernel crushing operations in Nigeria. The project
would sell kernels ex-millgate to the Marketing Board either for export or for
sale to local crushers.
7.07      In calculating the project's benefits, a value for palm oil equiva-
lent to an import substitution price for oil has been used. This is based on
the Bank's projected world price of US$495 per metric ton cif Europe in 1980.
Palm kernels have been valued at an export parity price of N 120 per ton based
on the Bank's world price forecast of US$330 per metric ton cif Europe in 1980
(see Annex 8).
Farmer Benefits
7.08      It is expected that most farm families in the project area would be
able to plant and maintain 2 ha of oil palm without a significant reduction
in their current farming activities. On such a typical planting of 2 ha all
developed at one time, production would begin in the fourth year from planting
and full bearing would be reached in the eighth year. Over the four-year estab-
lishment period the farmer would receive a gross return 1/ from the cash ele-
ment of the grant/credit equal to about N 0.60 per manday worked; the current
unofficial farm wage rate is about N 0.65. A farm budget is given in Annex 9.
7.09      Assuming a farmgate price of N 19.0 per ton of ffb, the gross return
(in constant 1974 terms) from 2 ha would start at N 54.6 in the first year of
production (Year 4), rising to N 278.0 during the farmer's loan repayment period
(Years 7 - 12) and thereafter would average about N 350.0 in maturity. These
returns compare favorably with those obtainable from alternative tree or food
crops, even where improved management and planting material are used. After
establishment a 2 ha planting would require between 50 and 70 mandays a year
1/   Gross return is return to management, labor, land and capital.



ID 9 -
for maintenance and harvesting, and gross returns per manday would rise rapidly
from N 1.0 in the year of first production (Year 4) to an average of N 4.2
during Years 7 - 12 of loan repayment and N 5.8 thereafter.
7.10      Official data on smallholder farm incomes is sketchy.  However, gross
returns on existing smallholdings are estimated to be in the region of N 200
to N 300 per year including N 100 - N 200 value of foodcrops consumed by the
honusehold.  Thus, under the project a minimum planting of 1 ha of oil palm
capable of generating a gross margin of N 175 per year, when mature (see Annex
9), would represent a very substantial increment to farm incomes in the area.
7.11      Participating smallholders would receive a bonus when the mill's
receipts for palm products exceed the full cost of fruit collection, proces-
sing and financial charges for the smallholders' component of mill throughput.
The bonus would be distributed half-yearly through the cooperative societies
according to smallholders' fruit sales to the mill over the period. With
the likely increase of palm oil prices in Nigeria over the project period these
smallholder bonuses are expected to be substantial.
Financial Returns to ADA's Subsidiar
7.12      The projected cash flow for ADA's subsidiary company is at Annex 10
and is expressed in constant (1974) terms. The effects of inflation on both
inflow and outflow have been calculated, using the price contingencies des-
cribed in para 5.02 for project costs, a 7Z compounded rate for other cost
and the Bank's international inflation index for the value of benefits.
7.13      The annual cash balance during the project period 1979-1983 ranges
from about N 125,000 to N 800,000 in constant terms and from about N 40,000
to N 1.8 million in current terms. Accordingly, no liquidity problems are
expected and any temporary seasonal shortfalls should be readily covered by
normal overdraft facilities. After 1984, when loan repayment begins, there
is a rapidly increasing positive net cash flow in each year. This rises from
N 2.2 million in 1985 to almost N 4.1 million by 1990 in constant terms, and
from N 5.6 million to N 13.5 million in current terms (in both cases after debt
service). These figures, however, take no account of company tax, dividends
or bonus payments to smallholders, none of which could be meaningfully esti-
mated at this range because of difficulties in forecasting future levels of
taxation, price trends and ADA's policy with respect to new capital develop-
ment projects. The repayment period of the loan, however, makes allowance
for these factors and the cover for debt service is considered adequate in the
early years of amortization, and ample afterwards.
Financial Implications for the State Government
I.14      Tle State Government's involvement in the project is threefold:
(a) it holds 100% equity in ADA's subsidiary which should be highly profitable
(see para 7.13) with a cumulative surplus in current terms of about N 120
million 1i generated by 1994, the final year of loan repayment, (b) it sub-
sidizes the smallholder scheme by providing grants during the oil palm estab-
lishment phase, fertilizer subsidies, and the normal extension services that
1/   Prior to allowance for depreciation and reserves, and payment of taxes,
dividends and bonuses to smallholders.



20 
apply to small farmer agricultural activities throughout Nigeria, and (e) r t
lends and onlends funds to ADA's subsidiary, which should give it some interest
income.  Through this scheme (see also Annex 11) it is estimated that during
the development and repayment period, the State Government would have to meet
annual cash deficits in current terms ranging from N 560,000 (US$850,000) to
N 2.9 million (US$4.4 million). By 1994 (last year of loan repayments)
deficits would have accumulated to N 32.4 million (US$49.2 million). The
State would receive no direct revenue contribution from smallholder oil palm
production as there would be no Marketing Board price differential or produce
sales tax; consequently the costs of this scheme would be defrayed against
general State revenues. Federal policy with respect to the distribution of
mineral oil revenues basically aims at meeting overall financial deficiencies
in State revenues that are considered justifiable and would include any
incurred as a result of the smallholder oil palm project.   On the other hand,
the State would be in receipt of substantial dividends from ADA (see para
7.13). Furthermore if ADA develops its own estates the profits of its
subsidiary would increase considerably.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The direct benefits from the project would be the increase in
palm oil and kernel production which is estimated at 35,200 tons of palm oil
and 8,000 tons of kernels annually at maturity in 1988 and thereafter. The
economic rate of return is estimated at 19.7%. Assumptions used in computing
the rate of return are given in Annex 12. Project life is taken as 30 years.
Costs are detailed in Annex 5, yields in Annex 7, and prices in Annex 8. Labor
costs are shadow priced at 65% to reflect its average opportunity cost in the
project area and foreign exchange is shadow priced at N 1.00 = US$1.27 compared
with the official exchange rate of N 1.00 = US$1.52 (a premium of 20%). If
labor and foreign exchange are not shadow priced the rate of return is estimated
at 16.4%.
8.02      As is usual when project benefits occur after a long development
period, the rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs and
benefits (Annex 12, Table 2). A 10% increase in cost accompanied by a i0%
decrease in benefits gives rates of return of 16.6%. A 20% increase in costs
and a simultaneous 20% decrease in benefits reduces the rates to 13.6%.
8.03      Project palm oil production would substitute for imports that other-
wise would be required and kernels or kernel oil would be exported. Treating
palm oil production as foreign exchange savings and kernel production as
foreign exchange earnings, and using the Bank's price forecast in current 1985
terms (for palm oil US$757 per metric ton and for kernels US$504 per metric
ton) annual net foreign exchange earnings/savings at full maturity (1988 on-
wards would be about US$26 million.
8.04      The project would sustain and develop an industry that at full
maturity (1988 onwards) would generate annually incremental net economic bene-
fits of N 7.0 million (US$10.7 million) in constant 1974 prices. During the



establishment period the project would create 12,500 manyears of employment
and about 8,000 smallholders would participate in the project. Assuming aver-
age family size of 6 - 7, some 52,000 people in total would benefit from the
: o ect.
K;i5      The project has a number of largely unquantifiable benefits.  In
pacticular, it would demonstrate the feasibility of a well supervised agri-
cultural scheme. It would form and strengthen an agricultural extension
service which would be able to handle further phases of the oil palm program
or use its experience for diversification into other crops. The cooperatives
would be strengthened through their participation in the project both organi-
zationally and financially. The institutional framework established under
the project should ultimately facilitate the provision of credit not only
for oil palm planting but also for other crops grown by the farmers. The im-
provement of roads under the project would benefit not just project farmers
but the whole farm comnunity of project areas through such effects as more
public transportation, easier access for farm products to markets, greater
availability of goods and services to the project area and lower transport
costs.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Among the assurances obtained were the following principal points:
(a) the project would confine the grant/credit scheme to smallholders
planting, or replanting, a minimum of 1 ha and a maximum of 10 ha.
Smallholders would also be required to be members of a registered
cooperative society (para 4.09);
(b) ADA's subsidiary would adopt the pricing formula for the purchase
of ffb from smallholders determined, in accordance with principles
acceptable to the Bank, by the State Price Policy Connittee which
would be established no later than 1980 (para 4.15);
(c) Any financial losses incurred by the mills as a result of the
smallholders failing to deliver their produce to any of the
palm oil mills under the project up to annual targets agreed
between SMU and ADA's subsidiary would be made good by the
State Government (para 4.16);
(d) smallholders would sign a loan agreement with SMU and their
cooperative societies and the terms and conditions of this
loan agreement would be acceptable to the Bank (paras 4.09,
4.10 and 5.06);
(e) the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement
between FMG and the State Government would be acceptable to
the Bank; the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan
agreement between the State Government and ADA's subsidiary
would also be acceptable to the Bank (para 5.06);



- 22 -
(f) SMU would be established in a form satisfactory to the Bank
and it would be adequately staffed at all times; and its
steering committee would have been established not later
than 90 days after loan effectiveness (para 6.03);
(g) Senior management positions of SMU would be filled with
qualified persons acceptable to the Bank and would be employed
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.03);
(h) the General Manager, Chief Accountant, and Oil Mill
Engineers in ADA's subsidiary company would have qualifi-
cations and experience and be appointed on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 6.11);
(i) ADA's subsidiary would be permitted to sell its palm oil
produced under the project freely on the domestic market
(para 7.04).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness of loan would be that:
(a) subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank had been
signed between FMG and the State Government, and the
State Government and ADA's subsidiary (para 5.06);
(b) the State Government had established and funded a project
account (para 5.12);
(c)  SMU had been established and its senior management positions
filled (para 6.02); and
Cd) ADA's subsidiary has been established (para 6.11).
9.03      A condition of loan disbursement for investment in the mills and
fruit collection system would be that: confirmation had been received from
SMU and the Tree Crop Section of NEU that the mill development proposals of
ADA's subsidiary were in line with the project's overall production program
(para 4.15).
9.04      It was agreed that from the date of ending of loan negotiations
retroactive financing of up to $100,000 would be made mainly for employment
of key personel and for nurseries (para 5.06).



ANNEX
Page 1
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALI PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
State Institutions 1/
1.        Ministry of Natural Resources and Agricultural Extension (MNRAE).
The Ministry is responsible for planning and executing agricultural programs
within the State. In the past, in the absence of effective planning and
coordinating at the Federal level, each State planned its own development, seldom
looking beyond its borders. Little or no consideration was then given to compara-
tive economic advantage as seen from a country-wide basis and hence no regional
specialization could develop. But ecological zones, water catchment areas,
drainage basins and natural forest stands were part of the natural environment
before state boundaries were formed. State plans therefore do not necessarily
reflect the best allocation of resources for the nation as a whole. There was
and still is unnecessary duplication of efforts and the effectiveness of scarce
resources (mainly trained manpower since at present funds from mineral oil are
available in ample surplus) is therefore reduced. However, FMG and the States
recognize this problem and are taking steps to improve machinery for planning
and coordinating agricultural development on a country-wide basis. The proposed
Tree Crop Section of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (see Supplementary
Annexes, Supplement 4) is especially designed to further this as far as tree
crops are concerned.
2.        The State Ministry has only been established effectively since the
end of the civil disturbances. In its May 1974 Budget Speech, the East
Central State Government announced that MNRAE was split into two new minis-
tries, namely the Ministry of Agricultural Extension (MAE) and the Ministry
of Agricultural Production and Animal Husbandry (MAPAH). The proposed
Smallholder Management Unit (SMU) would be under MAE and the Agricultural
Development Authority (ADA) would be under MAPAH (see para 15).
3.        The Cooperative Movement will play an important role in the project.
Only members of cooperatives would be allowed to participate in the project, and
credit facilities would be provided through SMU in conjunction with the coopera-
tives. A loan agreement would be signed between the farmer, SMU and the cooper-
ative. Experience gained by the cooperatives in channeling credit to the farmers
for oil palm development would establish a sound basis for providing seasonal
credit to farmers both for oil palm and other crops.
1/   Federal Institutions are described in the Supplementary Annexes to the
Nigerian Oil Palm Projects Appraisal Reports (Supplement 3).



AN-NE X
Page 2
4.        The East Central State cooperative movement was part of the Eastern
Region cooperative movement before the foundation of the East Central State.
About 500 primary societies reportedly survived the war, and so did a few secon-
dary unions. However, East Central State's present policy is to phase out all
the secondary unions, since their functions are regarded as purely administrative
and educational, and these could be more effectively performed by the apex
organizations. The apex organizations served the former Eastern Region and they
had to be reorganized in accordance with the present State boundaries.
5.        At present there are more than 800 registered primary cooperatives
with more than 41,000 members.  More than 400 cooperatives with about 20,000
members are proposed but not yet registered. Details are given below:
Cooperatives in East Central State
Type                                        Registered                 Proposed
Number      Membership    Number       Membership
('000)                    ('000)
Multipurpose                           447            23.0         421           18.9
Thrift and loan                        239             9.5          -             -
Produce marketing                       22             0.4          -             -
Community/cooperative farms            101             6.0           7            0.1
Other                                   17             2.6          20            0.6
826           41.5         448           19.6
6.        Reportedly about 117 farmer cooperatives have oil palm plantations
in East Central State. They have about 8,000 ha of land available of which
approximately 5,000 ha are developed with 2,800 ha in production.
7.        There are five apex organizations in the cooperative movement in
East Central State:
(i) the Cooperative Bank of Eastern Nigeria Ltd.;
(ii) the East Central Wholesale and Consumer Organization;
(iii)  the East Central State Cooperative Produce Marketing Organization;
(iv) the East Central State Cooperative Development Association; and
(v) the Cooperative Union of East Central State.
8.        The Cooperative Bank of Eastern Nigeria Ltd. is the banking insti-
tution for the East Central State cooperative movement and is subject to the
rules of the banking law. It engages mainly in short-term lending and by the
end of September 1973 its assets were valued at N 9.2 million of which loans and
advances amounted to N 4.8 million. The auditors report on the accounts for
the year ended March 1973 noted contravention of certain sections of the Banking



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Decree 1969; careless lending by some former officials; difficulties in evaluating
szr!urities lodged against advances; inadequate provision for doubtful debts;
and difficulties in the valuation of assets. However, a new Board and management
m>t appointed early in 1973 and measures are being taken to reorganize the bank
i-uc. cegularize its lending policy.
9.        The cooperative movement is well established in the East Central
State. Its accumulated capital is summarized below:
Capital Accumulated by Cooperative Societies
in East Central State (as of March 31, 1972)
(Naira '000)
Paid-up        Savings/
Shares         Deposits           Total
Primary Societies                       315.7           133.7            449.4
Cooperative Bank                      1,273.1        5,732.5           7,005.6
Other Apexes                             14.9             2.6              17.5
Total                                 1,603.7         5,868.8          7,472.5
With the aid of the SMU, cooperatives will be able to participate in the channelling
of credit and the distribution of payment for fruit collected. The cooperatives
would also guarantee the repayment of the loan and an interest spread would be
provided to cover the risk.
10.       The Cooperative Division 1/ of the Ministry of Cooperatives 2/ regulates
the cooperative movement, It is organized into seven sections (see attached
organization chart). Field extension services are carried out under 38 divi-
sional cooperative officers.
11.       Legal steps required to form a cooperative are minimal.  A minimum
of 6 farmers can form a farmers' cooperative. For other cooperative societies
the minimum requirement is 10. After the application has been approved, the
cooperative society becomes a proposed society, and it can be fully registered
after supervision by the Cooperative Division has proven that the society is
healthy.
12.       Outside the cooperative movement another organization has recently
been formed to group farmers together, the Farmers' Forums. "The objective
of the Forums shall be to improve farmers' farm income and standard of living
through the adoption of intensive and more effective farm practices and use of
1/   Before May 1974 the Ministry of Cooperatives was the Cooperative Division
in the Ministry of Trade and Industries. However it can be assumed that
the new ministry will have the same organization as the former division,
the organization of which is at the attached chart.
2,/ At present the Cooperative Division is the only Division within the
Ministry of Cooperatives.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
prescribed inputs such as credits, fertilizers, good seeds, plant protection
chemicals, irrigation and farm mechanization." Farmers' Forums have a politi-
cally oriented organizational structure and have strong backing of the Ministry
of Agriculture. Farmers' Forums are being organized throughout the East Central
State, and comprise all active farmers in the Community Council area. Through
the divisional level Farmers' Forums are grouped in a Farmers State Council.
In order to benefit from state agricultural programs, membership of a Farmers'
Forum is a definite requirement.
13.       State Marketing Board.  Details on the Marketing Boards and the
East Central State Marketing Board are given in the Supplementary Annexes
(Supplement 12).
14.       The State Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT), is responsible for
the building and maintenance of roads. Under the project, earth roads would
be built and upgraded by a road unit under SMU, but subsequent maintenance
would be the responsibility of MWT (for Road program see Annex 4).
15.       The Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) of the East Central
State was established by an edict dated May 21, 1973, but taking effect from
January 1, 1973. ADA is the successor to the Agricultural Development Cor-
poration and before that the Eastern Nigerian Development Corporation. The
latter served the former Eastern Region. ADA took over all the projects of
the Ministry of Agriculture that were designed to be revenue earning. Since
May 1974 ADA has been placed under the Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Animal Husbandry (MAPAH) (see para 2) and although it will remain an independent
authority ADA will report to MAPAH instead of reporting directly to the State
Administrator as was done before May 1974.



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Organization Chart of Cooperative Division
REGISTRAR OF
COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES
DEPUTY REGISTRAR
|DEVELOPMENT AND                  ACCOUNTS AND             LEGAL AND STATUTORY            AGRICULTURAL AND              COOPERATIVE               EDUCATION AND PUBLIC            APEX COOPERATIVE
SUPERVISION SECTION            AUDIT SECTION            DUTIES SECTION                INDUSTRIAL CREDIT             RESEARCH SECTION           ENLIGHTENMENT SECTION          SOCIETIES SECTION
r                       ~~~~~~~SECTION                RSAC   ETO                  NIHEMN  ETO                     OITE  ETO
DEVELOPMENT         |        ACCOUNTS                    |INQUIRIES         |        AGRICULTURAL                   RESEARC                      EUATION                   COOPERATIVE BANK
CREDITSEDCTO                                                                           ..ERTIA
SUPEVISIN                                      A.IT.TIO                   INDSARILITEDIT                                                UELICCOSMR
SUPERVSION                                                AND SURCHARGE               INDUSTRIAL CREDITS                PLANNING                  ENLIGHTENMENT        |RA|ZCON
STATISTICS                                            COOPERATIVE UNION
COOPERATIVE
PRODUCE MARKETING
IORGANIZATION
FIELD EXTENSION UNDER 38 DIVISIONAL COOPERATIVE OFFICES                            COOPENTIVE
DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCATION
World B..k - 8729



ANNEX 2
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Planting program under the project
1.        The phasing of the planting of a total of 16,000 ha under the
project in East Central State is as follows:
ha planted      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980     Total
Smallholder   2,000    3,000    3,000    4,000    4,000         16,000
2.        Approximately 25% of the planted area will be in the western part
of the project area and 75% of the planted area will be in the eastern part
of the project area.
3.        The project is Phase 1 of a program ultimately scheduled to plant
around 32,000 ha of smallholder oil palm plantings. In Phase 2, another 16,000
ha of smallholder plantings will be established.
4.        ADA is planning to establish a nucleus estate south and west of
Owerri. Assistance has been asked from SOCFINCO. (Details are in Annex 3,
para 18)



1LNINEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Organization and Management
1.        Project implementation would directly involve three organizations,
namely:
The Smallholder Management Unit (SMU) - which would be responsible
for implementing the new planting/replanting program for small-
holders;
The Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) - which would be
responsible for constructing and operating central processing
mills and establishing a smallholder fruit collection system;
and
The proposed Federal Department of Agriculture's - Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (MEU) 1/ - a section of which would be responsible
for monitoring and evaluating progress in tree crop projects and
assisting in planning future development programs for the sector.
A. Smallholder Management Unit
General Objectives
2.        A Smallholder Management Unit (SMU) would be established to im-
plement the smallholder replanting program. The SMU would have a high de-
gree of financial and administrative autonomy and would report to the
Ministry of Agricultural Extension (MAE). A Steering Committee comprised of
representatives of relevant Government agencies would be responsible for de-
termining SMU policy and approving development/operations programs and budgets.
When establishing the SMU, a consulting firm acceptable to Government and the
Bank would be engaged to set up a system of mechanized accounts that meets the
needs of the smallholder project. The same firm would be asked to advise on
the type and venues for training the staff required to operate the system.
3.        SMU headquarters would be in Umuahia with Regional Units located at
Umuahia, Owerri and Aba. SMU would be staffed primarily with personnel either
1/   For details on MEU see Supplementary Annexes (Supplement 4).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
seconded from the Ministry of Agricultural Extension or recruited elsewhere
in Nigeria. It must, however, be emphasized that the technical and financial
direction of the tree crop projects will require well qualified and experi-
enced staff (para 7). SMU would be responsible for appraising new planting/
replanting applications and providing the technical and financial services
involved in the field establishment and post maturity stages. The planting
techniques and standards to be followed by SMU would be those agreed with the
proposed Tree Crop Section of the Federal Department of Agriculture's Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit (MEU) and the relevant Federal Research Institutions.
The Steering Committee - Its Composition and Functions
4.        The Steering Committee would be comprised of the following:
i)   Chairman - Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Agricultural Ex-
tension;
ii)   Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Finance or his representative;
iii)   A senior representative of the Cooperative Division of the Ministry
of Cooperatives;
iv)   A senior representative of the Ministry of Economic Development and
Reconstruction;
v)   The General Manager of ADA;
vi)   A representative of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture;
vii)   The General Manager of SMU - who would be Secretary; and
viii)   The Chief Agricultural Officer of MAE.
The Chairman would be authorized to co-opt up to three additional nonvoting
members to the committee and during the road improvement period, a represen-
tative of the Ministry of Works and Transport would be so co-opted. A quorum
would require 6 voting members and in the event of a tie, the Chairman would
have a casting vote.
5.        The Committee would meet quarterly, and its principal functions would
be to:
i)   determine policy;
ii)   appoint the General Manager, Controller of Field Operations and the
Controller of Finance, for which Bank concurrance would be required;
iii)   review the organizational structure (see Charts attached to this Annex)
of the SMU, including terms of staff employment;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
iv)   approve the annual development/operational programs and budgets;
v)   review quarterly progress reports and approve any program amendments;
and
vi)   approve the annual report and accounts.
Management Structure and Staffing
6.        Management Structure.  The basic management structure is outlined
in Charts 1 and 2, attached to this Annex, the main divisions of function being:
i)   headquarters staff directing and supervising the technical and
financial services being operated by the Regional Units; liaising
closely with the Tree Crop Section of MEU in evaluating ongoing
and planning future programs, establishing training programs for
staff and farmers;
ii)    financial control, including budget preparation, control of
smallholder grant/credit and fruit payment accounts, internal
audit and general administration; and
iii)    the Regional Unit staff responsible for the distribution and
subsequent appraisal of applications, supervision of grant/
credit services, providing extension and other services to
the farmers.
When ADA's subsidiary's central processing mill establishes a fruit collection
system, the Regional Unit staff will need to liaise closely with the mill to
ensure that the smallholders both understand and utilize the system. Deductions
for loan repayments would be made from the value of fruit purchases. SMU's
Controller of Finance would be responsible for calculating: (a) the loan re-
payments due to the State Government; (b) the balance to be passed on to the
Cooperatives; and (c) the part of that balance to be distributed to the indivi-
dual producers in payment for fruit sold to the central mill.
7.        Staffing.  The project's technical and financial direction would
require suitably qualified and experienced staff, recruited internationally
if necessary. Middle level technical and administrative positions would be
filled by professional or senior technical grade officers recruited from
within the State or from other States in Nigeria. Lower level field and
administrative staff would be recruited from existing Government agencies or
the private sector. Details of the numbers and phasing of professional and
technical staff requirements are given in Annex 5, Tables 5 and 6.
8.        The Genera_l anager - the chief executive of SMU would be delegated
full responsibility for implementing the new planting/replanting program.
He would be directly responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Agricultural Extension. The person appointed should have a professional
qualification in agriculture, and at least 10 years experience, 5 of which
should have been in a senior administrative position.



ANNE X 3
Page 4
9.        The Controller of Field Operations - would be responsible for organi-
zing and directing the technical aspects of the program, including nursery
work, appraisal of applications, supervision of planting and maintenance in
the immature and mature stages. He would also be responsible for organizing
in-service training for all levels of field staff. The person appointed
should have had at least 8 years experience of tree crop planting (oil palm,
cocoa or rubber) preferably at a senior management level with a commercial
organization.
10.       The Controller of Finance - would be responsible for the general
administration of the SMU and all project financial controls and procedures.
This man would need to be a well qualified accountant with at least 8 years
experience at senior management level preferably in agro-industry.
11.       Regional Unit Managers - would be in charge of the field operations
at regional level and should be Senior Agricultural Officers (SAO) with about
3 years experience at that level. Preference would be given to SAO's who
had experience of modern oil palm planting techniques, but in any event, these
officers would be given in-service training courses at NIFOR. Other professional,
technical and administrative staff of the Regional Units would mainly be re-
cruited from Government services or directly from tertiary/secondary level
educational institutions. In order to equip such staff with the specialized
techniques required for implementing this project, appropriate in-service
training would be given at selected institutions.
Operational Procedures
12.       Operational procedures are described in the Supplementary Annexes
(Supplement 9) and the grant/credit procedures are detailed in Supplement 10.
Training
13.       Technical training at all levels will comprise a very important sec-
tor of project activity. To ensure an effective start-up in 1975, intensive
training in selected spheres such as nursery and field planting techniques
will need to be started as soon as possible. The type of training involved
can be divided into four basic categories: Senior Officers, Nursery Staff,
Field Staff, and Farmer Training. A schedule and estimate of the cost of
training are given in Annex 5, Table 8. More details are in the Supple-
mentary Annexes (Supplement 11).
B. Agricultural Development Authority 1/
14.       The Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) of the East Central
State was established by an edict dated May 21, 1973, but taking effect from
1/   As announced by the East Central State government in its budget message
of May 1974, ADA will now report directly to the Ministry of Agricultural
Production and Animal Husbandry (MAPAH) and not as before to the State
Administrator.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
January 1, 1973. The edict provides that "the Authority, in pursuit of agri-
cultural development, shall be engaged in the production, processing, storing,
packaging, marketing, development and manufacture of agricultural products."
The Edict also provides that:
"The Board shall consist of -
(a) His Excellency, the Administrator, who shall be the Chairman;
(b) the Commissioner for Natural Resources and Agricultural
Extension, who shall be the Deputy Chairman; 1/
(c) the President;
(d) three other persons who shall be appointed by the Administrator:
Provided that the Administrator may in his discretion, from time
to time appoint any other person to be a member of the Board."
The senior management of ADA includes the President, the Executive Vice-
President, Secretary/Vice-President Administration, Financial Controller
(also a Vice-President) and Chief of Operations.
15.       When ADA was formed, it took over all the projects of the Ministry
of Agriculture that were designed to be revenue earning. There are presently
over 60 projects, with the bulk of the investments in food production and
rubber and oil palm estates. They represent a total investment of over N 2.6
million, with the 10 largest projects accounting for some N 2 million. Few of
the projects are profitable (although many of them are still in the development
stage) and, after charging Head Office costs, they showed an overall net loss
of some N 400,000 in the year ended March 31, 1973.
16.       ADA's management is conscious of the need to put its operations on a
sound commercial basis. It is presently reviewing its investments and wishes
to discontinue or dispose of those which show no prospect of becoming profit-
able. It sees ADA's future role as that of:
(a) identifying and developing profitable opportunities in agricultural
production and processing; and
(b) encouraging private investors to participate in, or take over,
projects as they develop.
17.       Under the proposed project, ADA would be responsible for the establish-
ment and operation of the oil mills and fruit collection system. For this
purpose it would form a subsidiary company. ADA also proposes to ask SOCFINCO
for management assistance; the detailed arrangements have still to be defined
1/   This will now be the Commissioner of MAPAH.



IANNEX 3
Page 6
and negotiated. SOCFINCO is an associate of SOCFIN (Societe Financiere des
Caoutchoucs) a Belgian company, and the Dutch company HVA. These companies,
or their associates, have provided management assistance to a number of Bank
Group projects, including the oil palm project in Ivory Coast and the sugar
project in Ghana.
18.       ADA has entered into an agreement with SOCFINCO to develop between
100,000 and 200,000 acres (40,000 - 81,000 ha) of smallholder plantings and
estates. The first stage of this oil palm development plan consists of soil
surveys linked with a sociological study of suitable areas in the State. This
would result in a feasibility study for an estate program of about 100,000 acres
(40,000 ha) and recommendations as to its location. The feasibility study would
be completed by early 1975. ADA proposes to retain SOCFINCO services for the
management of the estates, that will be proposed in the feasibility study, and
for the construction of the related palm oil mills. In view of the overlapping
interests of this program and the proposed project and because of East Central
State government's intention to approach the Bank for possible financing of
this program, consultations have been held between the Bank, East Central State
Government, FMG, ADA and SOCFINCO.
19.       It is proposed for this project that two new oil mills would be
established by 1981 and 1983. One of the mills would deal wholly, and the
other partly, with project production and their costs would be financed
accordingly. ADA's subsidiary would engage consultants to prepare the design
and tender specifications for the mills. The fruit collection scheme would
be organized in close coordination with SMU on the lines outlined in Annex 4.
A Transport Manager, under the Oil Mill Engineer, would be responsible for
organizing fruit collection and recording deliveries by individual small-
holders as weighed and graded at the loading points. This information would
be transmitted to SMU for payment to farmers after deducting loan repayments.
20.       Under the subsidiary loan agreement with the State, ADA's subsidiary
would undertake to construct and operate a central mill and fruit collection
system capable of handling the production of the areas replanted under the
smallholder component of the project. Prior to any funds being channelled to
ADA's subsidiary for mill and fruit collection development, SMU and the Tree
Crop Section of MEU would confirm that the proposals of ADA's subsidiary were
in line with the crop production schedules of SMU's planting program.
21.       When purchasing fruit from smallholders, the mills would adopt an
agreed pricing formula as determined by the State Price Policy Committee (see
below). ADA's subsidiary would also channel the cash due on fruit purchases
to SMU where deductions for loan repayments would be made prior to handing
over the balance to the cooperatives for distribution to the farmers.
22.       On the other hand, SMU would be responsible for seeing that an
acceptable percentage (to be agreed) of the projected crop production levels
are attained and that the smallholders participating in the program sell their
fruits to the central mill. This latter factor should be covered by the loan
agreement between the smallholder and SMU. However, in the event of it proving



ANNEX 3
Page 7
difficult for SMU to take over the management of defaulting smallholder plantings,
t-+.y financial losses by the central mill that could be clearly demonstrated as
having resulted from smallholder crop shortfalls, would have to be made good
,rom State Government funds.  It must, however, be emphasized that the under-
rfiting of such losses by Government would not be permitted to be used as a
aeans for ADA's subsidiary to cover up inefficiency on the part of its mill
management.
C.  Price Policy Committee and Fresh Fruit Price Calculation
Price Policy Committee
23.       A Price policy committee would be appointed and would comprise:
(a) Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Finance - Chairman;
(b) Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Agricultural Ex-
tension;
(c) Registrar of the Cooperative Societies or his representative;
(d) General Manager of ADA or a senior representative;
(e) General Manager of SMU - Secretary;
(f) General Manager of ADA's subsidiary;
(g) Representative of the Marketing Board;
(h) Two representatives of smallholders; and
(i) Representative of NPMC.
The committee would determine a purchasing price formula which ADA's sub-
sidiary would be obliged to apply in calculating the price it would pay for
ffb. Using this formula ADA's subsidiary from month to month, or other
suitable time span, would announce a price to be paid for ffb. Any departure
from this formula would be referred back to the Committee prior to implementation.
Price Calculation
24.       The price paid per ton of ffb would be determined from the revenue
received for the palm oil and kernels produced from a ton of ffb after allowing
for the costs of fruit collection and processing, including depreciation, taxes
and financial charges. The financial charges would be adequate to provide a
reasonable return on the required capital investment, which return would be
sufficient to cover interest charges, and margins for building up reserves
and paying dividends to the shareholders of ADA's subsidiary. The return on



ANNEX 3
Page 8
capital would be measured on the basis of a percentage of net revalued fixed
assets plus a reasonable allowance for working capital; this percentage would
be agreed by the price policy committee within a suggested 10% - 15% range.
Depreciation on fixed assets would be taken on a straight line basis for
short-lived assets, such as those used for fruit collection; for longer lived
assets, such as the mill, it is suggested that a more appropriate basis would
be an allocation over output processed compared to the estimated processing
capacity of the mills over their estimated remaining useful life. Having
deducted these costs, calculated on a cost/ton basis, from the revenue
received from the sale of one ton or produce, the price per ton of products
net of all costs is known.   This would be the base price.
25.       Applying the appropriate extraction rate of products to bunches to
this base price, the price per ton of ffb can be calculated. Extraction rates
applied would be related to the mill's previous three months processing results.
Having determined an ffb purchase price discount rates would need to be deter-
mined in order to take account of different grades of fruit. Further details
are in the Supplementary Annexes (Supplement 12).
26.       Any profits in excess of the agreed return on capital would be
distributed to the smallholders in the form of a cash bonus at the end of,
say, each half-year. The amount paid to the individual smallholders being
proportional to the quantity of fruit sold to the company over the period
concerned.



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
SMALLHOLDER MANAGEMENT UNIT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL       |                                    Chairman Permanent Secretary MAPAH
PRODUCTION & ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                                       Permanent Secretary Ministry of Finance
___________________________________                  ~~~~~~~~or his representative
*                                                   Senior representative Ministry of Economic
_______________________________                        Development and  Reconstruction
Senior representative Cooperative
STEERING COMMITTEE   _ __________                               Division, Ministry of Cooperatives
[ EXTERNAL AUDIT ]  ______~_____________  *___4                  General Manager ADA
[EXTERNAL AUDIT]            m     m        m     m     m     m    iim          m    im                                                          Chief Agricultural Officer, MAE
li                                                  Senior representative Federal
[ ADA  ] _ _ _ _ _  _ __  _ _ _ _ _                                          ll SMU - GENERAL MANAGER1 l                                        Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
ADA  -------  --------------             SM                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Resources
;  _           on_ ;,  ecretary. SiviU - Gnerai Mvianager
I                                                                                       I
;. _ _ _ .                                     1                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONTFOLR OF
INTERNAL1            TRAIN;IN      l PLANNING, A~ND |r REGIONAL    _          EGIOA    lEl REGIONAL   | |SENIJORRCREDIT ||SENIORl
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I 
AUDIT        ll OFFICER        ||EVALAIN   l       NIT                     UNIT         l       NIT       | |OFFICER                                   ACCOUNTAMN |
_______________________L_____^_____-                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATION|
AND PURCHASES|
World Bank-8365(2R)



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
REGIONAL UNIT
UNIT         I
O   MANAGER (SAO)          O
r~~~~~~~~~~
|    CREDIT  |     5 AGRICULTURAL           5/1 AGRICULTURAL  |/1 AGRICULTURAL
OFFICER              OFFICER (AO)             OFFICER (AO)            OFFICER (AO)
ADMINISTRATION
R ECOR DS
I . - . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STORES
LOAN                5/10 AGRICULTURAL|      15/1° AGRICULTURAL        5/1O AGRICULTURAL
ASSISTANTS          ASSISTANTS (AA)          ASSISTANTS (AA)          ASSISTANTS (AA)
SPECIAL LABORERSX       SPECIAL LABORERS         SPECIAL LABORERS
1 FOR EACH AA           1 FOR EACH AA            1 FOR EACH AA
World Bank-8362



ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PAI PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Agricultural Development Authority
Summarized Accounts for the Year Ended March 31, 1973
Consolidated Balance Sheet
(N '000)
Net Fixed Assets                                      68
Investment in Projects                             2,604          2,672
Current Assets
Fixed deposit                                     100
Consumable stores                                  90
ECS Government                                     12
Advances &                                        174
Refundable bxpenses                             715          1,091
Cash ard bank balances
Current Liabilities
Bank overdraft                                     (50)
Creditors & Accrued expenses                     (140)           (190)
Total Net Assets                                                   3,573
Represented by:
Funds from Government
Balance at April 1972                          1,115
Received during the year                       2,258           3,373
Government Ioan (unsecured)                                        200
Consolidated Trading and Profit & Loss Account
Sales                                      )                         526
Cost of production                                   659
Less  Increase in inventory                           196
Overhead expenses                                    207
Depreciation                                           48
Head office                                           223            941
Net Loss                                                       (11)



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Establishing Processing Facilities, Fruit Collection System and a Road Network
A. Processing Facilities, Phasing and Costs
1.        At full maturity in 1988 project output would be about 160,000 tons
of ffb annually. It is estimated that about 25% of this production will come
from the western and about 75% from the eastern part of the project area.
2.        Monthly peak production is estimated at 12.5% of annual production.
This percentage is arrived at, based upon a study of the production history
of Ajagbodudu estate in the Mid-Western State. Peak monthly production at
full development is therefore estimated at 20,000 tons of ffb (5,000 tons
in the western and 15,000 tons in the eastern part of the project area.)
Assuming 500 working hours in a month, mill capacity required would be about
10 tons/hour in the western area and 30 tons/hour in the eastern area. An
ultimate capacity of 30 tons/hour is proposed in the eastern area and for the
western area it is proposed to provide finance for a 10 tons/hour line of
equipment which would be incorporated in a larger mill that ADA plans to build
in conjunction with a planned estate project. (See Annex 3, para. 18) Since
this project is the first phase of a larger program, the capacity of the
mills in the next phase of the program would need to be increased and in view
of this, mills should be designed so as to allow for expansion.
3.        Phasing of mill capacity (details are in table 1) is as follows:
1981      1982       1983       1984      1985
--------------(tons of ffb/hour)------------
Eastern Area          10         10        20         20         30
Western Area          -          -         10         10         10
4.        It is assumed that in 1980 fruit would either be processed in ADA's
existing pioneer mills or sold to local processors; so would fruit produced in
the western area in 1981 and 1982, since the 10-ton line of equipment would be
commissioned in 1983.
5.        When selecting mill sites, it is essential to have a reliable and
adequate supply of water as well as a good access road for fruit delivery and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
the evacuation of products. In the eastern area Owerri-Nta (see map 10965) would
provide a good site for a mill. No site for a mill has been selected in the
western area since this depends largely upon the future plans of ADA. However,
a mill could be sited at Ihiagwa on the river Otamiri.
6.        Estimates of mill costs are given in Table 1 and are based on an
analysis of (a) the Okitipupa mill contract between Speichim and the Western
State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources and (b) the Hinvi Oil Mill
contract between Usine de Wecker and Sonadar in Dahomey. These cost figures
reflect investment for mills to be commissioned in mid-1973. In order to re-
flect end 1973/begin 1974 prices, the cost of equipment has been increased by
10% and the cost of civil works by 12% (Annex 5, Table 9). 1/ Estimates of
the operating costs of the mill are given in Table 2.
7.        Project costs include all costs for the 10-ton line of equipment and
its installation in ADA's future mill in the western area, and all costs for
civil works, equipment, and housing necessary for the processing of 20 tons/hour
in the oil mill at Owerri-Nta. Expansion of this mill to 30 tons/hour by 1985
would be financed from ADA's own funds.
B. Fruit Collection System
8.        At full maturity in 1988 there would be about 160,000 tons of fruit
bunches to be delivered to the central mills for processing. During the peak
period 2/, there would be a daily production of about 600 tons in the eastern
and about 200 tons in the western part of the project area.
9.        The organization and management of collection from project smallholdings
would be the responsibility of ADA.
10.       Details on planning and organizing fruit collection systems are
in the Supplementary Annexes (Supplement 8).
11.       At full maturity in 1988 about 120,000 tons will be processed at the
proposed mill at Owerri-Nta while the balance (about 40,000 tons) will be pro-
cessed at the mill in the western part of the project area. Mechanical loading
using rear-mounted cranes with built-in weighing scales would be used in both
cases. In the western part of the project area the smallholder production areas
would be scattered over a radius of about 20 kilometers from the central mill
and a single stage collection system using 7-ton tipper trucks (with crane and
scales) is proposed. In the eastern part of the project area the smallholder
production areas are located within areas that range up to 37 kilometers from
the central mill. On the basis of cost comparisons (see Table 3) it is proposed
1/   Half of the assumed 1973 inflation rates.
2/   Based on monthly peak production (12.5%) and 25 working days/month.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
that a two-stage system using tractor-trailers and tipper trucks be used for
the collection of fresh fruit bunches. Nine central collection points with
loading ramps, storage hoppers and shelters for equipment and consumable supplies
(see attached chart) would be established; the central mill would be the 10th
collection point for the area. The collection points are tentatively located
on map 10965.
12.       In the western part of the project area loaded trucks would return to
the mill and after weighing and unloading into the fruit reception bays, depart
on the next round of collection. In the case of the eastern part of the project
area, 60-65 hp. tractors pulling 6-ton trailers would collect fruit from the
smallholders.   A proposal to have each tractor pull two 6-ton trailers at all
times is not considered to be generally feasible due to the condition of the
roads and the terrain. However, such an operation is considered suitable for
short periods, during the peak production season. The tractor-trailer units
would unload the fruit bunches into the 7-ton storage hoppers to be erected at
the central collection points 1/; 7-ton tipper trucks will be gravity-fed from
these hoppers and will then transport the bunches to the central mill. These
trucks will not require any laborers.
13.       It is estimated that the collection trucks used in the western part
of the project area would be able to make about 4 trips during a 10-hour working
day and haul about 28 metric tons of ffb to the mill. At this rate, during
the peak month at full maturity, 10 tipper trucks (including reserves), 10
net delivery units and 400 nets would be required for this part of the project
area. It is estimated that the tractor-trailer units in the eastern part of
the project area would be able to make 5 trips during a 10-hour day and haul
about 42 metric tons of ffb (assuming that each tractor, on average, will be
able to pull two trailers during two out of every five trips) to the central
collection points. At this rate, during the peak month at full maturity,
16 tractors, 23 trailers, 16 net delivery units, and 640 nets are required.
Night loading from smallholder areas both by trucks and tractor-trailers is
considered to be impractical.  However, tipper trucks transporting bunches
from hoppers to the central mill would be able to operate at night and, as such,
work up to about 16-18 hours during the peak days. It is assumed that on a
16-18 hour working day, each tipper truck would be able to make about 6 trips
and transport 42 metric tons of ffb to the mill. In order to transport about
600 metric tons of ffb during peak days to the Owerri-Nta Mill, about 17 tipper
trucks (including reserves) are required.
1/   Each collection point has more than one hopper, and the average capacity
of the collection point is 46 tons. Transport to collection points is
restricted to 10 hours a day. However, transport from collection points
to mills could continue for 24 hours at peak. A mill of 30 tons/hour
thus requires storage of (24 hours - 10 hours = 14) x 30 = 420 tons,
which is about 46 tons average for each of the nine collection points,
excluding the collection point at the mill.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
14.       All the central colllection points have been located so as to keep
the smallholder areas within a radius of 5-6 kilometers in order to be able to
derive maximum benefits out of the slow moving short-haul tractor/trailers.
These are, however, approximate locations, and the exact site should be chosen
taking into consideration such factors as proximity to paved or truckable roads,
availability of ample space for erecting the storage hoppers and ramps, garaging
facilities for tractors, and storage space for consumable supplies, etc. Parti-
cular emphasis should be given to finding sites with natural elevation that
can be used for constructing the loading ramps, thus reducing construction costs.
It is estimated that the normal cost of constructing ramps would be reduced by
about 40% when taking advantage of the natural elevation.
15.       The total costs of smallholder fruit collection as outlined above
is given in Table 4 (eastern part project area) and Table 5 (western part
project area).
C. Road Improvement 1/
Introduction
16.       The East Central State has a well developed commmunication system,
consisting of about 18,000 km of roads, 290 km of railways, 400 km of navigable
rivers and domestic air transport provided by the Nigerian Airways. The 290
km of single track railway passing through the state is operated by the Niger-
ian Railway Corporation and connects the northeastern part of the country
with Port Harcourt. It is an important link in the export of products from
the north, but does not play an important role in transportation of commodities
inside the State because of the extensive road network and the relatively short
distance to the port. The 400 km of navigable river, such as the Niger River,
play an important role in the transportation sector of the State, especially
in the coastal area where road construction is inhibited by the natural obstacles
such as river deltas and swamps.
17.       The road network consists of about 730 km of Federal "A" roads;
2,150 km of "B" roads; and about 15,000 km of earth roads.
Cost of Reconstruction
18.       The upgrading of earthroads to the standards discussed in the Supple-
mentary Annexes (Supplement 7) would be done by a construction team working
under the supervision of a road engineer and his staff. Costs, including
grading and labor, but excluding supervision and depreciation, are estimated
as follows:
1/   More details are in the Supplementary Annexes (Supplement 7).



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(a) N 380 - per km for improving an existing earth road to tractor/
trailer standards;
(b)  N 560 - per km for improving an existing earth road to truck
standards;
(c)  N 430 - per km for constructing a new earth road to tractor/
trailer standards; and
(d)  N 610 - per km for constructing a new earth road to truck
standards.
If depreciation is included, the above costs, are respectively N 495, N 675,
N 545, and N 725.
Administration of the Construction Program
19.       The earth roads program would require experience and skills which are
in short supply in Nigeria.  Neither the Ministry of Works and Transport (NWT)
nor the consultants in the State (whether local or foreign) appear to have wide
experience in building and maintaining all-weather earth roads. However, the
timber companies, which construct such roads for extraction purposes, have
personnel with adequate qualifications.
20.       A road engineer should be engaged to organize and supervise the
road construction program, assisted by two supervisors and two clerks. The
road engineer should have wide experience in the construction of low-cost
all-weather earth roads and would preferably be recruited from the timber
exploiting companies.
21.       Of the 946 km of collection roads involved in the project, all earth
roads (571 km) need improvement, 156 km to truck standard and the remaining 415
km to standards suitable for tractor/trailer traffic.
22.       The improvement of the 571 km of roads would be executed by a
construction team working under the supervision of the road engineer. Con-
struction time would be about 4-1/2 years. After completion of the work,
the equipment would be handed over to MWT on the understanding that it would
be used exclusively for the maintenance of the roads within the project area.
The repair of the bridges would be undertaken by the local contractors.
The Road Network
23.       The road network needed for the 16,000 ha smallholder project is
shown on map 10965. It has been assumed that planting will be confined to
areas that lie within 600 meters on each side of the collection road. It is
further assumed that only 12.5 ha per km of paved road and 20 ha per km of
earth road will be used for replanting palm trees under the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
24.       The total length of roads that need to be developed is shown below:
East     West      Total
Paved roads to be improved                            282        93       375
Earth roads, improved to truck standards               12       144       156
Earth roads, improved to tractor standards              -       415      415
294      652       946
25.       Based on the above assumptions, total hectarage of smallholder plant-
ings that could be developed along this road network is:
Paved roads                  375 x 12.5  =   4,688 ha
Earth roads                  571 x 20.0  =  11,420 ha
16,108 ha
Thus, this is sufficient for the planting of 16,000 ha.
26.       The costs 1/ of reconstructing earth roads are detailed in Annex 5,
Table 7 and summarized below:
Existing earth roads (truck standards)    156.0 at N 560 = N   87,360
Existing earthrroads (tractor standards)  415.2 at N 380 - N  157,776
N  245.136
or rounded                               N  245,200
Repair 3 bridges                                                   30,000
Capital costs equipment                                            71,000
N 346,200
1/   Cost of supervision by the road supervision team of SMU not included.
Supervision costs amount to N 66,875 over the five-year supervision
period.



NIG-RIA
SMALL HOLDER OIL PAL'M PROJECT, EASr CENTRAL STATE
Fruit Collection CenLre
z
K8
>       ~~30 m.        |   '16 m.                 30 m.
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~I  L
A                                                                            A
to
Steel hoppers
PLAN
30 m               16mm.30 m.
=                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LO
SECTION A-A
10im.  4m., 5.6m..
L2QL-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
SECTION B-B
World Bank-8428



NIGERIA
ShALLOiOLOER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Palm 0O1 Mills. Capital Expenditure
Unit
Costs          1970            1979            1980          1981            1982        1983          1904         1985          1986         1987         1988            1989          1990
capaciiT Ri quired                                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Onwards
Cuesity Resistre
Eastern Area 1'
Predantien of FFB. (sterEi  tens)                               -               -            3,750         13,125          26,325      46,125        71,475       91,200       105,300      116,400      120,000        120,000       120,000
Peek predu-tion  2/ (mattri  t-r/mna.h)                         -               -               469         1,641           3,291       2,766        8,935        11,400        13,162       14,550       15,000         15,000        15,000
Cepenity required 3/ (tans/ehor)                                 -              -                 0.94          3.28            6.58       11.53         17.87         22.80        26.32         29.10       30.00           30.00        30. '0
Capacity propreed Ttan/hour)                                    -               -               -  5/          10              10          20            20           30            30            30          30              30           30
Capacity utili-etian  (.)                                       -               -               -              32.8            .65.2       57.7          89.4          76.0         87.7          97.0       100.0           100.0       100.0
Western Area ,   4/
Prodentian of FFB (-rti  Loa)                                                  -            1,250          4,375           8,175      15,375       23,025        30,400       35,100        38,h00      40,000          40,000        40,000
peak pradurtian  2/ (aetric toxu/n-anth)                        -               -               156           547           1,097       1,922        2,978         3,800         4,388        4,090        5,0n0           5,000        9,000
Cep-eity required  3/  (tens/hear)                              -               -                 0.31           1.09           2.19         3.84         5.96          7.60         8.78          9.70       10.00           10.00         10.00
Capacity propserd (tanu/heur)                                    -              -               -  5/         -   6/          -  6/        l0            10            10           10            10          10              10          10
Cepecity atili-ation (%)                                        -               -               -             -               -            38.4          59.6          76.0         87.8          97.0       100.0           100.0       100.0
7/
Innesinent Casts
Oseri Nti Mill   8/
Civil Weeks
Ph9n     /                                           -409                           400             75-                        ------- 
Ph.en 2         10/                                          -               -               -             -                15
Phae 3         11/                                           -               -              -              -               -           -              25
Total                                                           -               400             400             75             15         -              25
Equip .. t
Phse I          q/                                           -               600             600            70             -
PFes. 2        10/                                           -               -              -              -               435         -             -            -             -            -            -
Phase 3        11/                                           -               -               -             -               -           -             560          -
TotAl
Tetl                                                             -              600             600             70            435         -             560           -            -             -           -
FPer Wheel Drion                                 4,100              -                 4.1          -              _                 4.1       _            -               4.I         -            _              4.1
linurtn8
Engineers                                10,000  12/         -               -         (1)   15.0   (1)   10.0   (2)    20.0
Technioi.nx                               2,000              -               -         (5)   10.0   (9)   18.0
Leberers                                     700             -               -        (14)    9.0  (14)    9.8  (35)    24.5           -   (2)         8.4
Total Hoonin .i34.8                                                                                             37.8           44.5        -               8.4
Western Aene      13/
Civil Works                                                      -               -              -              -               -            95          -           ' -
Equippent                                                        -              -               -              -              -            625
V/  757. af total prod-ctioo in Oouto-n Arro.
2/  Monthly peak prad-etiun ia 12.55 of anoual prod-tion.
3/  Tone/hour based an 500 h-t- per .o.ih.
4/ 25% of total praduction it Weetern Area.
5/  Craps asnewod in be sold or proPiisnod In ADA'. neiitina   pionert nillO.
6/  Crops eithen  sold or prIonesed E  Onrli-Nta Mill xr in ADA'w enjEtinr  pionner milk5-
7/  BM.ed ex a-t-els Ear mills tE  bn   -uteistiooed in Mid 1973.  Fu  pro-ent .oste  (ns. Anex 5 Tablr 9) i  order to retflet end 1973
prices civiil wrks increa snd by 12% and  qeip,sent by 1O'..  Vehinle qud  -u-xio  unit route reflert nd 1973 prim.
8/ In Ertsern Area.
9/ Par 10 rons/hbor
10/  From 10 tone to 20 tone/hour
II/ From 20 tsns ro 30 taos/hbor.
12/ For Mill Mana.gr hour -nit . ot is N 15,000
13/ Projent perticipatixn Cot one 10 tan li-n of quipment in e Mill to bo extoblinhed by ADA in the Western Area.



Ito             .-.                          Lo t            .   s             ,     33'0C0- =. 2                            wo>X'   oD      o *    o 0-coo----           n               t
o~ ~ ~~~~~~4                                           0                  04°   400044 o                          0=.n g  a0003~- =40    ic     Q                  
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ 0              00 30   0 e3   - n00                            0               01      0-4 |-                -  hoS   re
3~~~~~~~~~~~~g                                                                                                 00 o                                                if¢ 
=                                                                                                                              0'   _~r                              H      
4040        40    0                                                                   o0  o O O O0- oOOO  oi-   O'  O.°°   
3-4    >3   -    g0                                               0                                                                0.
00      0    0    -                              _.                                           _13                           _       0              _00    r_____    
40    0                                                     40         0- o 
0    -                                                                                                                                                               0433- n.n
04    =0          0,                                                                                        -                          -0                                                       04 O  so- r, > ' s  F ro     ow o ~ r   w
nO'                                                                                 a  -    |.00,.0.0.0.0.00.               0  o O 3n .0               330 0n330.0.en.0.O 30.                     0  O 
40          40    - a0
0'0   n    0    0
a    0 ,T                                                                          0.° 3 3=°  4 3                      ^^30^^33                       -  0-        ^^' 
=00    =0   o
n0    O     0    40 t43                   -                      -    0 
0.  0-   -  o0              0       0   -> 0                0~ 0e °  0.  Io.0,°00                °.3             0.   00030            J     3     0.O4-0r0lor.   rr; 
;4                         3.4   031 0             . > |  0           ;;  sM°    >°  >°.   0 .101o 3      o 0   C  o -   k0-0   0.333--O3  44  r00030-.30
n0   40 o.or40(o>=Ms>sr.              
0.-nF|  '-   0    a  |40           FFMW~  F~FFrHHrg.I    
3-    3-         0~                                                                 0-30000            0-30            °        .3-0                   33          0 °s>=coo  >w   o vou>vo    
~~~~~~~~0      a    0    0 o  .> -> --   -  ___
W0 0.  _0 3-                   4                       A    C             '0  O. 9     4 I D O O J   S0                 M .   -         t     O 1  0  ° 1  P     
=3  o                   w-      c3                                                                                                      0            aobMtr ~Hu   v- 0.33H  r
-~~ ~ ~ 0.   4hs°                                           > |)P                                                  t   lL0  n          1      00           d0U 0  0                  _
0~ ~ ~~~~~~ OroXM^Jr;. 0.33                                                                 ,0   ,Hw
V                           0. -      4"        03403-0-----                       03-     3-.30 |44>WF U  F1|FF0-Z °  F.F O330
0~~~~~~~~~ .  '0      W                                                                                                                r
00.0.0~~~~s                                                                                                                                                                                          1    ;s t NtW O I     0 a.o o P   ow
4~~~~~ ~ _>~wO>...0 '40                                                                                                                                                                              0 o0  0 ....4;040a      wc  '    ;OOX
.3-~ ~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~ ^0  ^ 0o0.    C:  33  03  4                                0                  r    s     >r- W 0 3                            _    0.
40   40 ~     ~ 40      0. I .0. -T                                  ,3       04-40300..s                    0- ,.,.                           -.~-'ttt                                .
1 ~    ~~~ °0 03                0. °.                  0.                  03003---000                       33 r33.03                  03   04000-3--300                             0-             03   0 -0.F °s° !         >- 4 |so c  or      s 
z gTqs; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~ ~            ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~40
40           0-



NIGERIA
SKA2LLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Coparison Bet..er gingle St.ge a-d T.o Stage ftmit Collertion RysteS,
E.stern Ares                                                                                             Western Area
siegle stone                             two  tage                                                       sIngle  t.ge  21                         two stage
Unit r..sts                                                                                             Grit rests
Nairs            (Uits)           (Nsira '000)           (Gnits)          (Nairs '000)                  Nairs             (Utits)          (Esirs '000)           (Units)          (N.irs  '000)
PerSe.-el Cost.
transport ososger                                        5,200              (1)                     5.2             (1)                     5.2                   5,200              (1)                     5.2              (1)                     5.2
r1.rk                                                      750              (1)                     0.8             (1)                     0.8                     750              (1)                     0.8              (1)                     0.8
driver                                                     640              (63)                   40.3            (50)                    32.0                     640             (20)                    12.8             (19)                    12.2
eehsnit driver                                            950               -                       -              (1)                     1.0                     950               -                        -              (1)                     1.0
sera= i helper                                             600               -                       -              (1)                     0.6                     600               -                        -              (1)                    0.6
load.r                                                     430              (68)                   29.2            (32)                    13.8                     430             (20)                      8.6            (12)                     5.2
Watching                                                   460                            -                        (18)                     8.3                     460                            -                         (12)                     5.5
total pe-soreel                                                                                 75.5                                   61.7                                                              27.4                                    30.5
Neise...... sod Operstios
usegr cr800                                                                  (1)                    0.8              (1)                    0.8                     S00               (1)                     0.8             (1)                     0.8
tra rto/treil...                                         2,600                                       -             (16)                    41.6                   2.600               .                        -              (6)                    15.6  7/
Net Deliver  Unit                                           260             (29)                     7.5  6/        (16)                    4.2                     260              (10)                     2.6             (6)                     1.6 
tipper track                                             6,700             (34)                   227.8  I/        (17)                   113.9                   4,500             (10)                    45.0              (7)                    31.5  8/
r.psir trnrk  4/ 6000                                                         -                      -              (1)                     4.0                   4,000                -                       .              (1)                     4.0
serice truok  314,000                                                         -                                     (1)                     4.0                   4,000                                                       (l)                     4.0
total operating                                                                                236.1                                  168.5                                                              48.4                                    07.3
DearerRatios
trasepart a.sagr rer                                     1,067              (1)                     1.1             (1)                     1.1                   1,067               (1)                     1.1             (1)                     1.1
trarter with er.ase                                      1,500                -                      -             (16)                    24.0                   1.300                .                                      (6)                     9.0
tra iler                                                   375                                       .             (23)                     8.6                     375                                        .              (9)                     3.4
Net Delivery Unit                                           200             (29)                     3.8            (16)                    3.2                     200              (10')                    2.0             (6)                     1.2
tipper track                                             2,875                -                      -             (17)                    48.9                   2,875                -                       -              (7)                    20.1
tipper track with erase                                  3,757             (34)                   114.7              -                       .                    3,375             (50)                    33.8               - 
repair track  31                                         2,500                -                       .              (1)                    2.5                   2.500                -                       -(1)                                   2.5
aervire track  3/                                        2,000                            -                          (1)                    2.0                   2,000                -                                      (1)                     2.0
.set.                                                        12         (1.160)                    13.9           (640)                     7.7                       12            (400)                     4.8           (240)                     2.9
frait .slle.tisn rester                                    750                -                                      (9)                    6.8                     750                .                       .              (4)                     3.0
road iepreset   s!.-14,4                                                                                              .                    10.6                      .                                        4.9                                     5.6
total                                                                                          149.9                                   115.4                                                             46.6                                    48.8
GPlAD TOTALS                                                                                         461.3                                   345.6                                                            122.4                                    136.8
ten ffb                                                                                         120.000                                 120,000                                                           40.000                                   40.000
N.eira/to. ff6                                                                                         3.85                                    2.88                                                              3.06                                    3.42
1/Refle-ts sctOl costs of two stage system  is eastern are.
2/Reflects actual costs af single stage sytes Er western are.
3/  Only reed ir two Stage sYste.
4/  B-se  on road setsack in seet (472.2 icr) snd west (144 kc) erd assuming thot for single stir system all rods reed to he irproved to truck etndd (N 675/Ike), and in two stage system to trartor standards  (N 495 his)
Depreiated ovr 20 years.
3/Assume  each truck ca  oaks 3 trips/day or r-rry 21 tons.  Peek of 600 tore requires 29 trucks pl-. 157   . reere rapacity.
/A.ssume  29 NDU's, Sinc  they can econoies on tripe,  ospered with the truaoks.
Z/  Assumes each tractor makes 5 trips sod carries 42 tons (2 trips with two treilers and 3 trips with 1 treiler). Peak of 200 ton requiran 3 trator pl.s I r.esev.  Foc trailers tvoreere   (additional  storage).
I/  A.ssues each truk isk.e 6 tripe and carries 42 tons.  Peak of 200 tons requires 5 trucks plus 2 reserve...



NIGERIA
SMALLI!OLDgR OIL PALNI PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Snallholder Fruit Collection.Eastern Area
(Naira '000)
Unit
Costs            1980             1981             1982            1983            1984            1985             1986             1987             1988           1989
Onwards
Investment Costs
Transport Manager car                  3,200       (1)   3.2               -                _      (1)     3.2              -                -              3.2               -                -
Tractors with crane                   6,000       (1)   6.0        (1)    6.0     (3)    18.0    (2)   12.0          (4) 24.0      (3)   18.0       (5)   30.0        (3)  18.0        (5)  30.0
Trailers                              1,500       (2)   3.0        (1)    1.5     (4)     6.0      (3)    4.5        (6)  9.0      (4)    6.0       (7)   10.5        (4)   6.0        (8)  12.0
Net delivery units                       800       (1)   0.8       (1)   0.8      (3)      2.4     (2)     1.6       (4)  3.2      (3)     2.4      (5)     4.0       (3)   2.4        (5)   4.0
Tipper trucks                        11,500       (1)  11.5        (1)  11.5      (3)   34.5       (2)   23.0        (4) 46.0      (3)   34.5       (5)   57.5        (3)  34.5        (6)  39.0
Repair truck                         10,000       (1)  10.0                -                -               -        (1) 10.0               -                -                -        (1)  10.0
Service truck                         8,000       (1)   8.0                -                -               -        (1)  8.0               -                -                -       (1)   8.0
Nets                                      24     (80)   1.9       (40)   1.0  (200)        4.8  (180)      4.3    (320)  7.7  (260)        6.2  (400)       9.6    (300)   7.2    (440)  10.6
Fruit Collection Centers             15,000             45.0             45.0            45.0               -               -               -
Total Investment Costs                                      89.4            65.8            110.7             48.6          107.9            67.1            114.8             68.1            143.6           98.0    1/
Of which:  Local Coats                                      52.5            39.3             52.7             17.1           37.5             20.3            36.6             21.2             42.3            29.1
Foreign Exchange Costs                         36.9             26.5            58.0             31.5           70.4             46.8             78.2            46.9             101.3           68.9
Recurrent Costs
Staff/Salaries
Transport Manager                     5,200       (1)    5.2       (1)   5.2      (1)      5.2     (1)     5.2       (1)  5.2      (1)     5.2      (1)     5.2       (1)   5.2        (1)   5.2      (1)   5.2
Clerk                                    750       (1)   0.8       (1)   0.8      (1)      0.8     (1)     0.8       (1)  0.8      (1)     0.8      (1)     0.8       (1)   0.8        (1)   0.8      (1)   0.8
Drivers                                  640      (4)   2.6        (7)   4.5    (16)   10.2   (22)   14.1           (31) 19.8   (37)   23.7   (43)    27.5           (46)  29.4       (50)  32.0   (50)  32.0
Mechanic driver                          950       (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)     1.0     (1)     1.0       (1)  1.0    (1)       1.0      (1)     1.0       (1)   1.0        (1)    1.0     (1)   1.0
Mechanic Helper                          600       (1)   0.6       (1)   0.6    (.1)       0.6     (1)     0.6       (1)  0.6      (l)     0.6      (1)     0.6       (1)   0.6        (2)   0.6    'I1)   0.6
Loaders                                  430       (2)   0.9       (4)    1.7   (10)       4.3    (14)     6.0      (20)  8.6    (24)   10.3    (28)    12.0         (30)  12.9      (32)  13.8   (32)  13.8
Collection point watchmen                460       (6)   2.8      (12)   5.5    (18)       8.3    (18)     8.3      (18)  8.3    (18)      8.3    (18)      8.3      (18)   8.3      (18)   8.3    (18)   8.3
Total Salaries                                          13.9             19.3             30.4            36.0           44.3             49.9             53.8             58.2            61.7            61.7
Maintenance and Operation
Transport manager car                    800       (1)   0.8       (1)   0.8       (1)     0.8     (1)     0.8       (1)  0.8      (1)     0.8      (1)     0.8       (1)   0.8        (1)   0.8      (1)   0.8
Tractors trailers                      2,600       (1)   2.6       (2)   5.2       (5)   13.0      (7)    18.2      (10) 26.0   (12)   31.2    (14)    36.4          (15)  39.0       (16)  41.6   (16)  41.6
Net delivery unit                        260       (1)   0.3       (2)   0.5       (5)     1.3     (7)      1.8     (10)  2.6    (12)       3.1    (14)     3.6      (15)   3.9       (16)   4.2    (16)   4.2
Tipper truck                           6.700       (1)   6.7       (2)  13.4       (5)   33.5      (7)   46.9       (10) 67.0   (12)   80.4    (14)   93.8           (15) 100.5       (19) 113.9    (17) 113.9
Repair truck                          4,000        (1)   4.0       (1)   4.0       (1)    4.0      (1)     4.0       (1)  4.0      (1)    4.0       (1)     4.0       (1)    4.0       (1)    4.0     (1)    4.0
Service truck                         4,000        (1)   4.0       (1)   4.0       (1)    4.0      (1)     4.0       (1)  4.0      (1)    4.0       (1)     4.0       (1)   4.0        (1)   4.0      (1)   4.0
Total Operations and Maintenance                        18.4             27.9             56.6            75.7           104.4           123.5            142.6            152.2            168.5          168.5
Total Recurrent Costs                                       32.3            47.2             87.0            111.7          148.7            173.4            196.4           210.4            230.2           230.2
Of which:  Local costs                                      24.4             35.5            63.9             80.9          106.4            123.5            138.9           149.0            162.3           162.3
Foreign Exchange Costs                          7.9             11.7            23.1             30.8           42.3             49.9             57.5             61.4            67.9            67.9
Depreciation
Transport manager car                  1,067       (1)   1.1       (1)    1.1      (1)     1.1     (1)      1.1      (1)  1.1       (1)     1.1     (1)      1.1      (1)    1.1       (1)    1.1      (1)    1.1
Tractor with crane                     1,500       (1)    1.5      (2)    3.0      (5)     7.5     (7)    10.5      (10) 15.0    (12)   18.0    (14)   21.0          (15)  22.5       (16)  24.0    (16)  24.0
Trailer                                  375       (2)   0.8       (3)    1.1      (7)     2.6    :10)      3.8     (14)  5.3    (17)       6.4    (20)     7.5      (21)   7.9       (23)   8.6    (23)   8.6
Net Delivery Unit                        200       (1)   0.2       (2)   0.4       (5)     1.0      (7)     1.4     (10)  2.0    (12)       2.4    (14)      2.8     (15)   3.0       (16)    3.2    (16)    3.2
Tipper truck                           2,875       (1)   2.9       (2)    5.8      (5)    14.4     (7)    20.1      (10) 28.8    (12)   34.5    (14)   40.3          (15)  43.1       (17)  48.9    (17)  48.9
Repair truck                           2,500       (1)   2.5       (1)    2.5      (1)     2.5      (1)     2.5      (1)  2.5       (1)     2.5     (1)      2.5      (1)   2.5        (1)    2.5      (1)    2.5
Service truck                          2,000       (1)   2.0       (1)    2.0      (1)     2.0     (1)      2.0      (1)  2.0       (1)     2.0     (1)     2.0       (1)   2.0        (1)   2.0       (1)   2.0
Nets                                      12      (80)    1.0   (120)   0.2  (240)         2.9  (280)       3.4   (400)  4.8  (480)         5.8   (560)      6.7    (600)   7.2    (640)    7.7  (640)    7.7
Fruit Collection Center                  750       (3)   2.3       (6)   4.5       (9)    6.8      (9)     6.8       (9)  6.8       (9)    6.8      (9)      6.8      (9)   6.8        (9)   6.8       (9)   6.8
Total Depreciation                                          14.3             20-6            40.8             51.6            80.4            ?9,5             90Q7             96.1            104.8          1Q4.8
1/  Average investments costs based on annual depreciation at full development (excluding depreciation of fruit collection center).



NIGERIA
SMALLFOLDER OIL  XAIP PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Fruit Collection Western Area
(Naira ' 000)
Unit
Costs              1980             1981            1982            1983            1984             1985            1986             1987            1988           1989
Onwards
Investment Costs
Transport chief car                 3,200        (1)     3.2              -               -      (1)     3.2               -               -      (1)     3.2               -                -
Tipper trucks with crane           13,500        (1)   13.5               -      (2)   27.0    (1)   13.5          (3)  40.5       (1)  13.5    (3)   40.5         (1)   13.5        (5)  67.5
Net delivery units                    800        (1)    0.8               -      (2)    1.6       (1)    Q;8       (3)   2.4       (1)   0.8       (3)     2.4     (1)     0.8       (5)   4.0
Nets                                   24       (80)     1.9              -   (160)    3.8                 -     (240)   5.8      (40)   1.0  (200)        6.7   (40)      1.0   (360)   8.6
Total Investment Costs                                     19.4               -             32.4            17.5            48.7             15.3            52.8            15.3             80.1           41.7   1/
Of which:  Local Costs                                      6.6               -             10.6             6.8            16.0              4.5            18.0              4.5            25.8           13.8
Foreign Exchange Costs                        12.8               -             21.8            10.7            32.7             10.8            34.8             10.8            54.3           27.9
Recurrent Costs
Staff and Salaries
Transport chief                     2,000        (1)    2,0       (1)   2.0      (1)    2.0       (1)    2.0       (1)   2.0       (1)   2.0       (1)     2.0     (1)     2.0       (1)    2.0     (1)   2.0
Clerk                                 750        (1)    0.8       (1)   0.8    (3)    0.8        (1)    0.8        (1)   0.8       (1)   0.8       (1)     0.8     (1)     0.8       (1)   0.8      (1)   0.8
Drivers                               640        (2)     1.3      (2)    1.3    (6)      3.8    (8)    5.1        (12)   7.7      (14)   9.0   (16)    10.2   (16)   10.2           (20)  12.8   (20)  12.8
Loaders                               430        (2)    0.9       (2)   0.-9    (6)    2.6    (8)    3.4          (12)   5.2      (14)   6.0    (16)       6.9   (16)      6.9      (20)   8.6    (20)   8.6
Total Salaries                                           5.0             5.0             9.2            11.3             15.7            17.8             19.9            19.9             24.2           24.2
Maintenance and Operatin&
Transport Chief car                   800        (1)    0.8       (1)   0.8      (1)    0.8       (1)    0,8       (1)   0.8       (1)   0.8       (1)     0.8    (1)      0.8       (1)   0.8      (1)   0.8
Tipper trucks                       4,500        (1)    4.5       (1)   4.5      (3)   13.5    (4)   18.0          (6)  27.0       (7)  31.5    (8)   36.0    (8)   36.0            (10)  45.0    (10)  45.0
Net delivery units                    260        (1)    0.3       (1)   0.3       (3)    0.8      (4)     1.0      (6)   1.6        (7)   1.8      (8)     2.1     (8)     2.1      (10)   2.6   (10)   2.6
Total Maintenance and Operatlons                         5.6             5.6            15.1            19.8             29.4            34.1             38.9            38.9             48.4           48.4
Total Recurrent Costs                                      10.6            10.6             24.3            31.1            45.1             51.9            58.8             58.8            72.6            72.6
Of which:  Local Costs                                      8.2              8.2            18.1            23.0            33.1             38.1            43.0             43.0            53.0            53.0
Foreign Exchange Costs                         2.4              2.4             6.2             8.1            12.0             13.8            15.8             15.8             19.6           19.6
Depreciation
Transport chief car                 1,067        (1)    1.1       (1)   1.1      (1)     1.1      (1)     1.1      (1)   1.1        (1)   1.1      (1)     1.1     (1)     1.1       (1)    1.1     (1)    1.1
Tipper truicks                      3,375        (1)    3.4       (1)   3.4      (3)   10.1    (4)   13.5          (6)  20.3        (7)  23.6    (8)    27.0       (8)   27.0       (10)  33.8   (10)  33.8
Net delivery units                    200        (1)    0.2       (1)   0.2       (3)    0.6    (4)    0.8         (6)   1.2        (7)   1.4    (8)       1.6      (8)     1.6     (10)    2.0   (10)   2.0
Nets                                   12       (80)     1.0    (80)   1.0  (160)    1.9  (160)    1.9   (240)   2.9   (280)   3.4  (320)                  3.8  (320)       3.8   (400)   4.8  (400)   4.8
Total Depreciation                                          5.7              5.7            13.6            17.3            25.5             29.5            33.5             33.5            41.7            41.7
1/ Average investment costs based on annual depreciation at full development.



NIGERIA
SMALLHDLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Summary of ProJect Costs
Total                Foreign Exchange
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981      1982       1983           Project costs               Component
(7.)    (N'000)
Smallholder Field Establishment                       96.7     415.0      636.2      818.6    1,099.1    998.8        504.4     382.1      200.1                   5,151.0            32       1,651.8
SMU - Capital Costs                                   59.1      45.4        -         11.1         9.4       -          8.1        6.4       -                       139.5            47          65.1
- Personnel Costs                               132.6      135.3      136.2      136.2       107.5    108.4      108.4      108.4      108.4                  1,081.4             15         169.0
- Recurrent Costs                                 9.2       14.8       14.8       14.8        14.8      14.8      14.8       14.8       14.8                    127.6             42          53.7
Regional Unit - Capital Costs                        140,4      137.9      29.6       12.3        55.8      24.0       12.3        -          -                      412.3            48          197.7
- Personnel Costs                    132.2      228.4      269.4      274.4       337.8    315.3      215.4      206.4      181.1                   2,160.4             7         167.2
- Recurrent Costs                      14.1      26.2       31.0       31.0        37.4      37.4       21.4      21.4       21.4                     241.3            45         108.7
Road Inprovement                                       -        154.5      82.7       70.3        69.4      36.2        -          -          -                      413.1            32          133.1
Training                                              53,6       58.2       24.4      16.0        39.5       -          -          -          -                      191.7            43           82.5
ADA Mill Investment                                    -          -          -         -       1,112.1  1,142.8       198.8      543.9     793.9                   3,791.5            39       1,484.6
Fruit Collection Investment                            -          -         --                             108.8       65.8     143.1       66.1                     383.8            52         198.2
Total                                                637.9   1,215.7   1,224.3   1,384.7    ,882.8   2,786.5    i49.4   1,426.5   1,385.8                        14,093.6             31      4,31.6
Physical contingencies   /1                      31.9      60.9       61.2       69.2       171l.6    170.3      62.9       71.8       76,8                    779.6                        241.7
Price contingencies        /2                   104.3     318.0      398.9      593.3    1,910.4  2,274.1   1,024.9   1,468,5   1,732.3                       9,824.7            31       3,045.7
Grand Total                                          774.1   1,594.6   1,684.4   2,047.2    4.967.8  5,230.9   2,237.2   2,966.8   3,194.9                        24,697.9             31       7,3599.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
1/  5% except for civil. works under mill investment for which a 12% physical contingency has been applied.
2/ 18A5/12%  compounded range for houses, buildings and civil works, 14Tl/7.5% compounded range for all                                                                                                             - U
vehicles, equipment plants, farm inputs except labor 7% compounded for all other costs (salaries,
operating costs and labor). Compounding has begun from 1974 onwards, and in the year concerned only
half the inflation percentage has been taken into account.



NIOL'UA                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Table I
NIGERIL
SMALLI4OLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Smallholder Field Establishment Costs
(Per Ha)
1/
Year - 1      Year O        Iear l     Year 2       Year 3       Total        ES
-----------------------------Naira-------------------------------
2/
NURSERY COSTS
3,/
Labor costs                         15.00         1.68           -           -           -           16.68
Seeds                                7.50           -                        -           -            7.50
Polybags                            11.81          -             -           -           -           11.81       40
Fertilizer                           2.73          0.30          -           -           -            3.03       80
Other non-labor costs  11/          11.31         1.25           -          -            -           12.56       65
Total Nursery Costs                   48.35          3.23          -           -           -           51.58
-_______________--------------Mandays---------------------------
SMALIHOLDER FIELD COSTS 5/
Labor Mandays
Under brushing and cleaning.i        -           50.0            -           -           -           50.0
Stacking, burning, cleaning
rows                                -           25.0            -           -           -           25.0
Lining                                             5.0           -           -           -            5.0
Weeding avenues, pre-cover
planting                                          5.0           -           -           -            5.0
Planting cover                       _            2.5            -           -           -            2.5
Holing, Refilling                    -             7.5           -           -           -            7.5
Planting                             -            5.0            -           -           -            5.0
Fixing wire collar                   -             2.5           -           -           -            2.5
Maintenance  Z/                      -            27.5          35.0        30.0        22.5        115.0
Total Mandays                          -           130.0          35.0        30.0        22.5        217.5
--- --------Naira-- -.-    ---------
Labor Costs  /                       -            84.50         22.75       19.50       14.63       141.38
Cover Crops 2/                       -            3.63           -          -            -            3.63
Wire netting                         -            31.25          -           -           -           31.25       50
Fertilizer                           -            7.37          15.33      21.00        30.40        74.10       80
Chemicals                            -            2.50           2.50        2.50        2.50        10.0        80
Tools                                -              2.50         2.50        2.50        2.50        10.0        50
Total Field Costs                       -            131.75        43.o8       45.50       50.03       270.36
TOTAL FIELD ESTABLISHMENT COTS         48.35         134.98        43.o8       45.5o       50.03       321.94
Of which:  Labor Costs              15.00          86.18        22.75       19.50       14.63       158.06
Local Costs              19.10         22.98          4.82       5.95         7.83       60.68
FE Costs                 14.25         25.82         15.51      20.05        27.57      103.20
/ Year 0 is year of planting.
2/ Cost of planting material is N 51.58 per planted ha. Costs are broken down in their main components.
3/ Nursery labor at N 1.00 per manday
-/ Includes irrigation equipment, fingicides, pesticides, materials, tools, transport costs and miscellaneous.
i/ Transport of materials costed under SMU
6/ Occurs November/December Year -1, but smallholder not refunded before Year 0.
Z/ Includes slashing rows and avenues, fertilizer application and weeding; and in Year 1 also supplving.
/  Smallholder labor at N 0.65 per manday.
21/ Perania 11 kg per ha to allow for an early planting followed by a second planting in March/April.



H  H                                                                                           00  H                                                                          H
H                              H  -             HH               HH                 O     '0                 0'  H            H  H              00000             OH  H             0'  0
0oO                  I                 HO               00                00               0020                                       HO    tOO                           HO               OH
-               I.               LI                                                           '                                                       CO
Ho               HO                OOOHOO                   00                00               000                   0
5001                                          H                                                                          OH               HO                   00
0000                 000                                                                               H             0  -.                                 0                H             00
                                0   0   H   0
H000  0'       0             H  0                 0'                0                0                     H  0             H  o                  V
00      00                                                                                                                   0
0                                                                                                                                                                                            HO
00     OH                 00                00        00HH0                             H00000*                                                             00               0           0o0''            00
0      0       V  0000000000         0000000000       000000000         0000000000       0000000000                0000000000      00                 0000000000           000000        .000000000          OH
O    0             Ooooo             000000           00000             000000           000H0HJ0                  00000            000.0000          00000            00000o            00oJo0              Ho"
0D                 00000000          00000000         0000000           00000000         0000000                   000000000        0000000           0000000          00000000          00000000
000000           0000000           000000           0000000                   00000            00000            000000            00000             000000                -
20000            00000000          00000000         00000             000000                   00000             00000            00000000          00000             0000000000          00
26656                              gg             S88                                        000000            000000           000000000         000000            00000                 H
000   00                                                                                                  00  0            00    0          0     0           0    0           0    00
000000                                                                                                                                                                                           0
0000   -  00  -                  -           00   00         00                      00          00        0   0         0                        0         0       0        00
00000                                                                                                                                                                                        1.00
Ooooo    0                 0    0           0    00          00    0           0    00           00        -  00        000    00         000    0         0        00       00      0
0000   0  0  00            0    00           0    0           0    0           0    0            0         0   0         000    0         0000    0         0       0        0      0
00000                                                                                                                                                                                                                jO
0  0   00        0000    0         00      00       00      -         0      00        00          0  0        0                          0       0         00      0        0        0              00        -
00000  00  0  0          00      00        000    0         0       0        0       00        00          0  0        00       00      00        0       0         00     00        00
0 00   00  0   0          00     0         00      0         0      00        00     00         00          0  0       000       00     0000      00      0         0       0         0       00
r
--0   00  00                    00                                                                                                                                                                                     z   E
0000000000                                        00     00        -.      -         00      0000          0  0    0            H'   00           0     0           0    0           00   00                I -                2100
00000  0  00  0        000000000                          0         0      0         00      0000          0   00    HO         0    000          0     0           0    0           0    0.00               00      SHO    00400
00000  00  00  0       0000    00        000      0       0         00     00        0       000           0   00   000         0    0000        00   00           00    0           00   0000              100
000000                           -                -    -                             00    0               00
00  0              00   00   00000000    00   00            00   0'           00    000000         0  0   0              00  00           0   00            0  0              00  00
00000  0  00  0    0000          00   0000000    00    0            0    0           00    00000           00  0  Ho            0  0o             o  0              00  00           00  000                 0         j
-00   00  00  0    0000          0    0000        00   00          00    o           -    0000             00  00  000              0000         00  00             0  0             0   oo                  o         g
000   00  00    000000          00  0000000       00  00            -  00            1.0  000.oO           00
000   00000000                   0  0000000       0  -              0  00            -   000000            00  0  0             00  0                                                00  00
00.-  H.  00  0   0000           0  0000          0  00             0  0             0   00000             00  0  0             00  00                                               0   0
400000  0          000000        0   0000                                            0'  0000
0000   0  00  0   00             0   OH                                              00  000
00000                                               0 00                                                                                                                    V
0000   0  0  0   00             00  00                                               0  00
000   00  00  0   00            00  00'                                              H  00                                                                                                                  100
0000000  00000000  0 0000000  0 00000,0.000                                          00 0000000000         0 0 0000000  0000                      000000000000000.-  00 OOoOO                                OoO
00000  00  00  00  000000000     H  00000000      00000000          00000000         oooOOo                0   0  000000        00  00000000      0000000           0  00000         00  00000000
0000 0 0 0 000000   0. 00.01.000   00000000   0000 000000000000                                            0 0000000000000000000   0 00000000   0                                    0 '000000
I.'



0Y                                                                                                                             NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
'a.                                                                                                                       EAST CENTRAL STATE
SMU - Headquarters Capital Costs sod Recurrent Costs
(Noirs Thousand)
Unit                                                                                                                                                          Total         Foreign           1984
Costs           1975           1976            1977            1978            1979            1980            1981            1982            1983        1975-1983    E-channe  X         Onwards
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings/Offices /L                            ON/8q ft          27.0            27.0                                                                                                                       54.0            30
Equipment
Offier  Furnitore and Equipment 12                                 9.0             9.0                                                                                                                       18.0            40
Ac-osnting machines                            3,000        (1)    3.0      (1)    3.0                      (1)   A3,0      (1)    3.0                                                                       12.0            60
12.0            12.0                            3.0             3.0                                                                       30.0
Consultants                                                       12.0                                                                                                                                       12.0           100
Vehicles
Sedan                                          4,000        (1)    4.0                                      (1)    4.0                                     (1)    4.0                                        12.0            60                 1.3 (4
Four-wheel drivn                               4,100        (1)    4.1                                      (1)    4.1                                     (1)    4.1                                        12.3            60                  1.4 7/
Safari wagon                                   3,200               8        (2)    6.4                             -        (2)    6.4                             -        (2)    6.4                       29.2            60                 2.1 8
8.1            6.4                             8.1             6.4                             8.1              6.4                      43.5            60                  4.8
Total Capital Costs                                          59.1            45.4                            11.1             9.4                             8.1             6.4                      139.5                               4.8
RECURRENT COSTS
Offics  Maintee-ncn  and RunninR ExPenses      8,000               4.0             8.0             8.0             8.0             8.0             8.0             8.0             8.0              8.0      79.0            60                  8.0
External Audit                                 3,000               3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0       27.0                                3.0
Vehinles Operating
Sedan                                          1,000        (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0      (1)    1.0         9.0                        (1)   1.0
Four-wheel drive                               1,200        (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2      (1)    1.2       10.8                         (1)   1.2
Safari stationwalon                               800               -       (2)    1.6      (2)    1.6      (2)    1.6      (2)    1.6      (2)    1.6      (2)    1.6      (2)    1.6      (2)    1.6       12.8                         (2)   1.6
Total Vehicle operating                                       2.2             3.8              3.8            3.8              3.8            3.8             3.8              3.8             3.8      32.6                                3.8
Total Recurrent Costs                                         9.2            14.8            14,0            14.8            14.8            14.8            14.8            14.8             14.8     127.6                               14.8
GRAND TOTAL SMU                                                    68.3            60.2            14.8            25.9            24.2            14.8            22.9            21.2            14.8      267.1                              19.6
of which tonal costa                                          34.6           36.6             8.5            14.7            14.1              8.5            11.7            11.1             8.5      148.3                              10.4
foreign enchenge Costa                              33.7            23.6             6.3            11.2            10.1             6.3            11.2            10.1             6.3      118.8                                9.2
j/  SU  ffisc    building encompaassa 5,400 sq ft.  Building phased aov   2 years.
2/   Puochass of furniture and offico  eqoipneet phased over 2 years.
Consultanto ti  advise an Mechanisad annonuting system.  Total costs N 21,000 divided between States on bhtei of ha planted.
4/   Average yerly i-vest-ent based on one vehicle depreniated over 3 years.
5/   Average yearly investnent based on two vehicles dep-esiated over  3 yeers.



?able S
0        .
0000000.0 o°R.ooooooooo
000- _      000000 N R_____RR____O
00  a0 r       ~          4.&           o   I
0-|0000n0o00n00                           . o   ro,  NN,tfl  ..
n  00     °   00 00t. 0 0 3 o o 4 .n ~ . 1OS        1N1           _N:            | o NS
0.0 __         00000 0.ooa
00 CO    smo'0<n<.0.OOOOOOOO o00rr         #o  
0l -       oN__    _|g  
00                                     400a         00
u00-n-                                     n     o       _N_nSx
I ~   ~     ____________
0000000000000 n                                           .0  noxo    tenv)N°    tl°|
0    l    _000 R        4t00 R000004000.N_0  0X° 
00 1I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . q H _ o S n s ~~~~
0000____4__00______.__0__
n~~~~0                                     x,____H____H_(    tU0 Vl-t>
l~~ ~~~~                                 0                    00~RR4<n    D_N_t  <O     
1~~~~~ 3                                 0 _           ___O___ 1_N_5.L    
<1  ~ ~ ~~~~CI .j =S                        ~                    o             00
D~~~~~~                    0   0 I  o      00                    00       000    .00    <>menrDD  CuzrN     
21  Z  i> |~ Ng N  N '0  0I N   0   |00          0              C00
+0 ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   0         0  g _ _.0                                          0           1_N_xL  D.   '
D In ~~~0,  FL nr0 1000                        --          0                  I  00000l_- 
* ~ ~   ~   0 0 .0 0 0           00-o  < Ni         _N<41'   -; Xb   1_ < P
h ~        ~~ _0   000                   -9
_ ~   ~     n   sF     s _ ~       .O _        _____                   0_       00 01z¢ - 
_ ~  ~ ~       000000000                        00X 
0E  OO R°o    000    000    00  00                                  000 ,-ecoc                  ^1    
ID                       t            : 0000000000  01'0     00000-. X
_   0000____000000000                                   00      0 
_000000000000--0000000_  _  00-o                        000000  X W 
Marc C0 E197.4



NIGERIA
;SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Regional Units  f
(Nains '005)
Unit                                                                                                                                                                         Total           Foreign             1984
Costs            1975              1976             1977              1978             1979              1980              1981             1982              1983         1975-1983        Pecha -- /          onwards
CAPITAL COETS                                           (Pairs)
R.ildiogx
offites /2                                          NlO/eq it            42.0              42.0                                                                                                                                   84.0              30
Stores /3                                           N 5/sq ft            42.0              42.0                                                                                                                                   84.0              20
Total BSildiegs                                                     84.0             84.0                                                                                                                                   168.0
Poreitrs soad Eqcip.eot /4                                                9.0               9.0                                                                                                                                   18.0              40
Vehicles
Motertyrlen /5                                         550       (31)   17.1       (38)   20.9    (21)   11.6                           (25)   13.8                                                                               63.4              70
5-ten lorries                                       6,000          (3)   18.0       (4)   24.0        (3)   18.0                         (7)   42.0       (4)   24.0                         /6                                  126.0              65                  4.5
Fer-vhseel drive                                    4,100          (3)   12.3                               -          (3)   12.3                                -          (3)   12.3                                            36.9              60                  4,1 5
Total Vehitles                                                     47.4              44.9              29.6             12.3              55.8             24.0              12.3                                           226.3                                  8.6
Tortl Capitol Costs                                               140.4             137.9              29.6             12.3              55.8             24.0              12.3                                          412.3              48                  8.6
PERSONNEL COSTS
Unit manager                                        5,600          (3)   16.8       (3)   16.0        (3)   16.8       (3)   16.8        (3)   16,8       (3)   16.8        (3)   16.8        (3)   16.8        (3)   16.8       151.2              10            (3)  16.8
AO,'/SAS   /9                                       4,300          (4)   21.5      (10)   43.0    (10)   43.0    (10)   43.0    (13)   55.9    (13)   55.9                  (9)   38.7        (9)   38.7        (6)   25.8       365.5              10            (6)  25.8
AA's       /10                                      1,350        (31)   41.9       (60)   93.2    (90)  121.5         (90)  121.5   (115)  155.3   (103)  139.1            (59)   79.7       (54)   72.9       (47)   63.5       888.6              10           (40)  54.0
Credit Offirer                                      3,500          (3)   10.5       (3)   10.5        (3)   10.5       (3)   10.5        (3)   10.5       (3)   10.5        (3)   10.5        (3)   10.5        (3)   10.5         94.5             10            (3)  10.5
Lean Assistants /11                                 1,100          (3)     3.3      (6)    6.6        (8)    8.8      (12)   13.2    (15)   16.5         (14)   15.4       (14)   15.4       (14)   15.4       (14)   15.4       110.0                           (14)  15.4
EO's                                                1,800          (3)    5.4       (3)     5.4       (3)    5.4       (3)    5.4        (3)    5.4       (3)    5.4        (3)    5.4        (3)     5.4       (3)    5.4        48.6              10            (3)   5.4
Clerks                                                 750         (3)     2.3      (3)     2.3       (3)     2.3       (3)    2.3       (3)    2.3       (3)      2.3      (3)     2.3       (3)    2.3        (3)     2.3        20.7                           (3)   2.3
Typist                                                 750         (3)    2.3       (3)     2.3      -(3)    2.3        (3)    2.3       (3)    2.3       (3)    2.3        (3)    2.3        (3)     2.3       (3)     2.3        20.7                           (3)   2.3
Storekeeper                                         1,400          (3)    4.2       (3)    4.2        (3)    4.2       (3)    4.2        (3)    4.2       (3)    4.2        (3)    4.2        (3)    4.2        (3)    4.2         37.8                           (3)   4.2
Asdistent Storekeeper                                  740         (3)    2.2       (3)     2.2       (3)    2.2       (3)    2.2        ,31     2.2       ;3)     2.2      (3)      2.2      '3'    2.2        (3)     2.2        19.8                           (3)    2.2
Drivers - Landr-vers                                   640         (3)     1.9      (3)    1.9        (3)    1.9       (3)    1.9        (3)    1.9       (3)     1.9       (3)    1.9        (3)    1.9        (3)     1.9        17.1                           (3)   1.9
Drivers -Lrries                                        640         (3)    1.9       (7)    4.5       (10)    6.4      (10)    6.4       (14)    9.0    (14)        9.0      (4)    2.6        (4)     2.6       (4)     2.6        45.0                           (3)   1.9
Drivers- spare                                         640         (1)     0.6      (2)     1.3       (2)    1.3       (3)    1.9        (3)    1.9       (3)     1.9       (2)    1.3        (2)     1.3       (2)     1.3        12.8                           (1)   0.6
Watch-.n                                               460         (9)    4.1       (9)    4.1        (9)    4.1        (4)    4.1       (9)    4.1        (9)    4.1       (4)    4.1        (4)    4.1        (4)    4.1         36.9                           (9)   4.1
Special laborers /12                                  430        (31)   13.3       (70)   30.1       (90)   38.7      (90)   38.7   (115)   49.5    (103)   44.3           (65)   28.0       (60)   25.8       (53)   22.8       291.2                           (46)  19,8
Total Persoel Costs                                               132.2             220.4             269.4            274 .4            337.8            315.3             215.4             206.4             181.1    2 160,4                7                167.2
RECOERRENT CONGO
Office Meirtengnne and REonnire iononess            3,800                  3.7             11,4              11.4             11.4              11.4             11.4              11.4              11.4              11.4        96.9              60                 11.4
Vehicle Operantin
5-ton lorries                                       1.600          (3)    4.8       (7)   11.2    (10)   16.0         (30)   16.0       (14)   22.4      (14)   22.4        (4)    6.4        (4)    6.4        (4)     6.4       112.0                           (3)   4.8
For--heel deives                                    1,200          (3)     3.6      (3)     3.6       (3)    3.6       (3)    3.6        (3)     3.6       (3)    3.6       (3)    3.6        (3)    3.6        (3)     3.6        32.4                           (3)   3.6
Total                                                                8.4             14.8              19.6             19.6              16.0              16.0             10.0              10.0              10.0       144.4              40                  8.4
Total Rerurrent Costs                                               14.1             26,2              31.0             31.0              37.4              37.4             21.4              21.4              21.4       241.3              45                 19.8
TOTAL REGIONAL UNITS                                                         286.7             392,5            330.0             317.7            431.0             376.7             249.1             277,8             202.5    1,814.0               16               195.6
of ehich local costs                                                    214.5             300.1             175.8            175.9             352.4            327.9             215.7             202.5             179.4    2,352.2                                 168.8
foreign exchange costs                                         72.2              84.4             54.2             41.8              78.6              48.8              33.4             25.3              23,1       461.8                                 26.8
/I   There are 3 regional coits in East Central Otate.
/2 Regional ..it en.oipags 5,600 sq ft. Bcilding phased over two years.
/3   Store has 5,600 sq ft.  Bnilding phased over two years.
/4   N 6,000 per regional coit.  Purehanes phased over two yTess.
75    Cne noorcycle for ech AA, when  he is recroited in SMO,  Moteoryrle cill bh  nwncd and operated by M's, who repay
050U fron their vehicle allowance.  Capital e-penditure is for initial p-chasos only and e revolving fond w 11 be
formed free repayments of AA'.s fro  which food further purchases of motoccycles will be nade.
/6   Rssidual v-los of ove- -oplato  vehicles N 21,000.  howerer vehicles co-ld be coed in neot phase oiI pole progrsm or cold bhe traesfecrrd to  othen pregrans
of tho Ministry of Agriculture.
/7   Average yearly lnvestment based  n 3 ve'itles deprocioted over 4 ynans.
/8     Average yearly investnt-t based en 3 vehirle- deprecieted over 3 years.
/9 One AO for 5 - 10 M's and one AO ti give apecial attentioe to th nurseries.
gT1  OSe 04 for 80 ha in Year -0 and YGoo  O; I 0  for 240 ho in Years 1, 2 and 3; 1 AA far 400 ha froc Year 4 o-cocd,.
However after three years develop-ent cot sll M's are recruited in Y-ar -1. Tc addntioc there ore 2 M's for eech nurtery (there are three nurserisa).
/1l one LA for 400 Canners in YTar -1, aed 1 LA for 600 farmers fron Ynar 0 cowards.
/12  One for each AA engaged in field developmnt (nurAery labor costed ceder fleld esnahlisheent) and 2 for each ..it.



H         0"         H   H   Ht  0@ 1  rg                                                           Ho                                                                                                                          -- n   0r
g b= =O  r wi  OOr  w  ew tMo0                                      C                C3                          o            w                                                 r                     °erwn  wC  °  Fl  w 22w><        aa 
C o                       =0                            0                                                            9g^^er     H   o,   00  :10.0001  e¢X                            Cn>         o o  0001  00To   0      H           C
0"          0         IM    n       n~        H  c    '0   -           '0g 0            0                      000            C OO        <1    r-  .      C    00000101101    II  Il   rI                   o              22a>eo°ff      
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e0                                                                                                                                                                               - I'll    ficea Xnn    >&H- DB      
=~~~~ ItI                     Cl       HO      p       0      I     11     0         0                           C                         l                     10.          IC    0                                      00
0    C.    . C        0   0       C                                                                                                                                                                                              o 10    O H00H C0     0 0
C                                             7                                              U    01                                               2,0  CC:                              
01C o       0    C    lb     c 0                                                                                                       w o                                                            10 reo00rxAboooo   ls
C o         0      0 .. =                                                                                                                                                                                                      00i
0      0s   C_    ,,  . , , .                                                                H                                                                                                                                   OH    0  ^~_
n~~~ ~~~ 0e                                                                                                                                                                                                               CCnr___   ____   _
a   n  n   =+  bC  o, ~~~~~~~~ >   r   w  o o      o   r   w JJ          °      r r r es  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ w           n r > O o                - w~~~~~~
rJ 2Doa_NJoNO       O8°°              S888'rXw,l
a                                c 
o n : r os oo rO > ~~~~~ N N _ - N N0:: ::::                                                                                                                c
g   =    O  _ P   N   J:s  w   HN                                14  P   W W           O    010010                        100110800
Y~~~~ 00 Xu8°oS                                OO'° 0   01  -o  01o        o1  g1   o00                         0    P1000             8      1   g1      01g0            g0       ,l,,C.|
01  1-  N                 N       10       N       _1          _          1010             0     0 0 00 '000                                 00          0      0
0f                                                                                                                                                                                      . 00      1 0 0 0  000 000    0 0  0 01 0 0 0  0
B. H                                                                                                                                       
<=01  In  01        0    000       OW1N0   00                  10   0000Q            0   0SSIII IN 0100
W0   1W0            I0    0010           -   l9                01   0000             0    00 0                                                     0     -        00
0   1D-0            01   00 °0 °0                              0    0''0 °0   0011 g10    o88OSo8 888So 88                                                 o          ~ru 
O0 O1           0                                                     O11  O1                                     IA OH 0o 0    000001             o 
001 10  0 000  10 100    01 0010101   0 000010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0S
1001   01  10  H  IC 'C  C   H   001  10     10             01             01   0101



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Schedule and Cost of Training
Total              Foreign Exchange
1975         1976         1977         1978        1979        1980          1981          1982          1983           1975 - 1983             Component
Training
Senior Staff   1/                 (4)18.0      (6)27.0             -           -    (3) 13.5          -             -               -            -               58.5                     100
Field Assistants  2/             (25)10.0    (38)15.2         (21)8.4          -   (25) 10.0          -             _               -            -               43.6
Nursery Staff       3/            (6) 9.6            -             -           -                                                                 -                9.6                      62
37.6         42.2            8.4         -         23.5          -            -               -            -              111.7
Grant to NIFOR    4/                     16.0         16.0           16.0        16.0        16.0         -            -               -             -               80.0                      30
Total                                    53.6         58.2           24.4        16.0       39.5          -            -               -             -             191.7
Local Costs                              30.8         26.4           19.6        11.2        18.0         -            -               -             -             109.2
Foreign Exchange                         22.8         31.8            4.8         4.8        18.3         -            -               -             -               82.5
1/  Training of all AO's for six months outside Nigeria @ N 4,500.
2/  Training of all AA's engaged in field development during 3 months at NIFOR @ N 400
3/  Training of nursery staff during 12 months; half the number in Nigeria @ N 1,200; half the number in
countries in West Africa @ N 2,000.  Training should  start  in 1974.
4/  Used by NTFOR to organize field demonstration and to buy teaching materials.  However specific equipment
needed by NIFOR in order to allow it to meet the training needs of the project (such as Hostel water
supply installation, minibuses, photographic equipment, beds for hostel, chairs, desks,cupboards and kitchen
equipment) are costed separately under the "field studies of small scale processing systems in wild palm groves",
and are part of the Mid-West State, Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project.



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAlI STATE
I/
Palm Oil Mill - tnvotunt.i CouLs
(NcratUO0Uy
Dnit                                                                                  lotal                                     Post-SDiuho,ucu.o P         GRAND         For-ign
Costs          1979           1980           1981          1982          1983      1975   1983 1 84                  1985        E_triOd                   TOTAL         E a
Oweri Nta Mill
Civil Works   3/
Phase I (10 ton/hour)                                                 448.0           448.0           84,o           -             -           980.0             -                               -                980.0
Phese 2 (20 ton/hour)                                                    -              -              -            168R           -            16.8                                                               16.8
Phlse 3 (38 ton/hour)                                                                                                                                          2 _  -  -  _  : 28.0             28.0                28.5
Total Civil Works                                                          448.0          448.0           84.0          16.8            -          996.8           28.0          -                  28.0             1,024.8             20
Eqsipment 4/
Phase I (10 too/hour)                                                 660.0           660.0           77.0           -                       1,397.0                         -                    -             1,397.0
Phars 2 (20 too/hour)                                                                   -                          478,5                       478.5                                                              47 0
Phase 3 (30 ton/hour)                                                                                                                                         6,6___ _ __ __                   616.0_ __  _____
Total Equipoeot                                                            660.0          660.0           77.0         478.5                     1,875.5          616.0          -                 616.0            2,491.5              to
Vehioles Four wheel Drive                                 4,100        (1)   4.1            -               -      (1)   4.1            -            8.2             -      (1)  4.1                  4.1               12.3             60
Engiosere                                            10,000  6/          -      (1)    15.0      (1)  10.0       (2)20.0           -           45.0                          -                    -                 1(5.0            30
Technicians                                           2,000              -      (5)    10.0      (9)  18.0           -             -           28.0                          -                   -                  28.0            30
Loborers                                                700              -    (141      9.8  _  14)   9, ..8   _  )24.5               _        44.1   _  (12)L8.4 -          -    _              8.4 4               2.             20
Total Noosing                                                                -             34.8           37.8           44.5           -          117.1             8.4     _                        8.4   _          125.5
Total Ore0i Ntr  Mill                                                    1,112.1        1,142.8          198.8         543.9                     2,997.6          652.4         4.1                656.5            3,654.1
Cootribution to Epnsion of CDC/ADA Mill
Civil Works  3/                                                                         -              -             -           106.4         106.4             -     -                          -               106.4              20
Equipment    4/                                                          -            -                       -      -           687.5          87,5             -           -_  -_          _     ____687.5                         80
Total                                                                                                                                793.9         793.9             -           -                    -                793.9
GRAND TOTAL                                                             1,               142.8           1198.28                      93.9       3,791.3          652.4         4.1                 56.5            4,448.0
Of ohioh Local Costs                                                  620.1          627.1            88.8         399.6        571.3       2,306.9           500.1         2.5                502.6            2,809.5
Foreigo E-chaoge Costs                                                492.0          515.7           110.0         144.3         222.6       1,484.6          152.3         1,6                153.9            1,638.5
1/  See A.ex 4 Table 1
2/ In Esstern part projest area
3/  Sioe Toble 1  Annro 4          -eflects mid-1973 prices a 12% inressee has be-n applied to reflest sod 1973 renditions.
4/  Sin   Table 1    Anner 4 reflests old 1973 priseo  o 10% lorrasse has beso applied to reflert end 1973  -oditloor..
5/ ADA will estoblish an estots snd sill which sill olso take cter if the smollholdsrr projeOt pr-duction in the Western area.
The  mounot provided under the projects provides for a 10 tros/h.our   pononn of the ALA mill.
6/  For Mill Manager Noosing Unit soot 6 15,1100.



NIGERIA
SMALLBOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Smollholder Fruit Collection.  Inve.t=ent Corst
Foreign
Unit Costs          1980             1981            1982            1983       1980-1983             1984            1985             1986            1987             1988           1989 Ia           Exchange
Fruit Collection Eastern Area
Transport Manager car                           3,200         (1)   3.2               -               -      (1)    3.2            6.4                  -               -      (1)    3.2                -               -             1.1                60
Tractor with crone                              6,000         (1)   6.0    (1)    6.0    (3)   18.0    (2)   12.0                 42.0       (4)    24.0        (3)  18.0      (5)   30.0        (3)  18.0    (5)   30.0              24.0                85
Trailers                                        1,500         (2)   3.0    (1)    1.5    (4)    6.0    (3)    4.5                 15.0       (6)      9.0       (4)   6.0      (7)   10,5        (4)   6.0      (8)   12.0             8.6                55
Net Delivery Units                                800         (1)   0.8    (1)    0.8    (3)    2.4    (2)    1.6                  5.6        (4)      3.2      (3)   2.4    (5)    4.0          (3)   2.4    (5)    4.0               3.2                70
Ttpper Trooks                                  11,500         (1)  11.5    (1)   11.5    (3)   34.5    (2)   23.0                 80.5       (4)    46.0        (3)  34.5    (5)   57.5          (3)  34.5      (6)   69.0            48.9                75
Repair truck                                   10,000         (1)  10.0               -               -               -           10.0        (1)    10.0               -                -               -      (1)   10.0             2.5                75
Service trckss                                  8,000         (1)   8.0               -               -               -            8.0        (1)     8.0               -                -               -      (1)    8.0             2.0                75
Nets                                               24        (80)   1.9   (40)    1.0  (200)    4.8  (180)    4.3                 12.0    (320)        7.7   (260)   6.2  (400)    9.6   (300)   7.2  (440)    lO.6                    7.7                10
Fruit Collection Center                        15,000         (3)  45.0      (3)   45.0    (3)   45.0                 -          135.0                  -               -                                                -              -                 25
Totol 1nveetnent Coats.  Rosters  Area                                 89.4            65.8           110.7            48.6         314.5               107.9            67.1            114.8            68.1           143.6            98.0
Fruit Colleotion Western Acre
Tr..e.sport chief cor                           3,200         (1)   3.2               -               -      (1)    3.2            6.4                  -               -      (1)    3.2                -               -             1.1                60
Tipper taboks with crone                       13,500         (1)  13.5               -      (2)   27.0    (1)   13.5             54.0        (3)    40.5       (1)  13.5       (3)   40.5       (1)  13.5    (5)   67.5              33.8                75
Net delivery Units                                800         (1)   0.8               -      (2)     1.6    (1)    0.8             3.2        (3)      2.4      (1)   0.8       (3)    2.4       (1)   0.8    (5)    4.0                2.0               70
Nets                                               24        (80)   1.9              -    (160)      3.8              -            5.7    (240)        5.8    (40)   1.0  (200)    6.7          (40)   1.0  (360)    8.6               4.8                10
Total Investnent Coats. Western Acre                                   19.4               -             32.4            17.5         69.3                48.7             15.3            52.8            15.3             80.1           41.7
Total Investment Costs                                                108.8            65.8           143.1             66.1        383.8               156.6             82.4           167.6            83.4            223.7          139.7
Of which:  Locol Costs                                                 59.1            39.3             63.3            23.9        185.6                53.5             24.8            54.6             25.7            68.1           42.9
Foreign  Exchange Costa                                   49.7             26.5            79.8            42.2         198.2              103.1             57.6           113.0             57.7           155.6            96.8
1/ Based on annual depreciation at full devalopuent for vehicles only.
if



NIGER IA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PAL4 PROJECT
EAST-CENTRAL STATE
Smallholder Maintenance md Harvesting Costs
(per ha)
Year 4        Year 5      Year 6        Year 7        Year 8        Year 9      Yea_9          Year 11        Year 12        FE %
onwards
---------------------------------------------- Mandays ---------------------
Labor
Ring weedirg                  5.0           5.0         5.0            5.0           5.0          5.0          5.0          3.75          3.125
Slashing & avenue weeding    7.5            7.5         7.5            7.5          7.5           7.5          7.5          5.0           3.75
Fertilizer application       1.25           1.25        1.25           1.25         1.25          1.25         1.25         1.25          1.25
Prunirg                       2.5           2.5         3.75           3.75         3.75          5.0          5.0          6.25          6.875
Harvesting                  10.0           12.5        12.5           13.75        13.75         15.0         15.0         15.0          15.0
Total days                   26.25         28.75       30.00          31.00         32.50        33-75         33.75       31.25         30.0
-______- ___-        .______  _ -------.----- N a i r a ------------------------------------------------
2/
Labor Costs -               17.06          18.69        i 9.50        20.15         21-13        21.94         21.94       20.31         19.50
Fertilizer                  30.4o          30.4o       20.00          20.00         20.00        20.00         20.00       20.00         20.00           80
Chemicals                     2.50          2.50         2.50         2.50           2.50         2.50          2.50        2.50          2.50           80
Tools                         2.50          2.50         2.50         2.50           2.50         2.50          2.50        2.50          2.50           50
TOTAL                        52.46         54.09       44.50          45.15         46.13        46.94         46.94       45.31          )4J.5c
of which labor costs       17.06         18.69       19.50          20.15         21.13        21.94         21.94       20.31         19.50
local costs       7.83           7.83        5.75           5.75         5.75          5.75         5.75         5.75          5.75
FE costs         27.57          27.57       19.25          19.25        19.25         19.25        19.25        19.25         19.25
1/ Tear 0 is year of planting.
2/ Labor @ 65 kobo per manday.
3/  Fertilizer   : 200 ha of muriate of potash and in addition in Year 4 and 5, 130 kg of ammonium sulphate.



NIGERI A
SiiALLHOLDMI OIL PALIi PROJECT
EA3T CENTRAL STATE
Smallholder P.aintenance aid Harvesting Costs
(Naira '000)
1980     1981       1982       1983       a 985     1985      1986      1987     1988     1989     1990       1991      1992          FE,%
onvards
plantir,    planted
Year         ha
Labor Costs
1976        2,000     34.1      37.4       39.0       40.3       42.3      43.9      43.9      50.6    39.0    39.0    39.0         39.0       39.0
1977        3,000       -       51.2       56.1       58.5       60.5      63.4      65.8      65.8    60.9    58.5    58.5         58.5      58.5
1978        3,000       -         -        51.2       56.1       58.5      60.5      63.4      65.8    65.8    60.9    58.5         58.5       58.5
1979        4,00o        -                   -        68.2       74.8      78.0      80.6      84.5    87.8    87.8    81.2          78.0      78.0
1980        4,000             -              -          -        68.2      74.8      78.0      80.6    84.5    87.8       87.8      81.2       78.0
Total                     34.1      88.6      146.3      223.1      304.3    320.6    331.7    337.3   338.0   334.0    325.0    315.2    312.0
Fertilizer
1976        2,000     60.8      60.8       40.0       40.0       40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0          O0.0      40.0
1977        3,000       -       91.2       91.2       60.0       60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0          60.0      60.o
1978        3,000        -         -       91.2       91.2       60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0          60.0      60.0
1979        5,000        -                    -      l1z.6      121.6      80.0      80.0      80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0          80.0      80.0
1980        4,000                        - -                    121.6    121.6       80.0      80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0          80.0      80.0
Total                      60.8    152.0       222.4     312.8      403.2    361.6    320.0    320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0    320.0    320.0                    80
Chemicals
1976        2,000      5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0
1977        3,000        -        7.5        7.9        7.5       7.9        7.5      7.5       7.5       7.9      7.5      7.9       7-        7.5
1978        3,000        -         -        7.5         7.5       7.9        7.9       7.5      7.5      7.9       7.5      7.9       7.9       7.5
1979        5,000        -                    -       10.0       10.0       10.0     10.0      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0          10.0      10.0
1980        4,000       _-                                        10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0    10 0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0
Total                      5.0      12.5        20.0      30.0       40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0    50.0      40.0       .0       40.0      40.0           80
Tools
1976        2,000      5.0        5.0       5.0         5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0       9.0      5.c      5.o       s.0       5.0
1977        3,000        -       7.5        7.5         7.5        7.5       7.5      7.5       7.5       7.5      7.5      7.5       7.5       7.5
1978        3,000        -         -        7.5        7.5        7.5        7.5      7.9        7.9      7.9      7.5      7.9       7.9       7.5
1979        4,000        -                    -       10.0        10.0     10.0      10.0       10.0    10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0
1980        4,000       _     -         -                -        10.0      10_o .   10.0       10.0    10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0
Total                       5.0      12.5       20.0       30.0)     40.0       40.0      50.0      hO.0    40.0    50.0       40.0      40.0      40.0           50
GRAND TOTAL               10L.9     265.6     508.7       995.9      787.5    762.2    731.7    737.3   738.0   734.0   725.0    715.2            712.0
of which labor costs      39U.1      88.6      146.3      223.1      3015.3    370.6    331.7      337.3    338.0   334.0   325.0    315.2    312.0
local costs      15.7      39.1       57.2       83.6       108.6    100.3       92.0      92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0         92.0      92.0
FE costs         55.1    137.9        209.2     289.2      37h.6    341.3    308.0    309.0    308.0    308.Fn    303.0    3P8.0    308.o



NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Financial Plan
IDRD         State Gove-cnment                              TOTAL
Loan      Own Funds      IBRD Loan      Srmallholders,  ProJect Costs
-------O-…-------------~- -- -                           -- -… - -
Smallholders Program           3.2       191            3.2               0.8             5.1
Field Establishment
SMIJ                         1.7       3.1            1.7                               4.8
ADA Program
Oil Mill and Fruit
Collection                   2.1       2.1            2.1                               4.2
Sub total                7.0       6.3            7.0               0.8            14.1
Unallocated                    5.4       4.7            5.4               0.5            10.6
TOTA1L                  12.4      11.0           12.h               1.3            24.7
Percentage              50%       45%            5O%                5'%           100%
------____ -----_US$OOO ---
Smallholder Program
Flield Establishment.        5eO       1.6             5.0              1.2              7.8
SNU                          2.6       4.6             2.6                               7.2
ADA Program,
Oil Mill and Fruit
Collection                  j               2 _                          -
SubtotaL                10         9             10.8               1.2            21.h
UIxallocated                  _8.        71              8.2              0.8            16.1
TOTAL                  J<0        16j'           19.0               2.0            37.5                     o
5 '               51%           100



NIDERIA
SMiLLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Detailed Financing of Project Cost
per
Categories of Proposed Disbursement
Banik Loan         SchiedulTe
1975        1976         1977        1978         1979        1980         1981         1982         1983        Total       (N'OOO)    (US$OO00)   (2S0?o
FIELD ESTABLISHMENT
IBRD (75'b of grants/credits)           72.5       255.8        378.6       497.3        679.0       598.3        333.2       274.3        158.8       3,247.8       3,247.8     4,936.7      5,000.0
ECSG (257 of grants/credits)            24.2        85.2        126.2       165.7        226.3       199.4        111.1         91.4        52.9       1,082.4
SMALLHOLDERS                             -          74.0       131.4        155.6       193.8        201.1         60.1        16.4        (11.6)        820.8
SUB TOTAL                         96.7       415K)        636.2        818.6     1,099.1        998.8       509.4        382.1        200.1      5,151.0
SMALLHOLDER MANAGEt34NT UNIT
IBRD (35%)                             189.4       280.2        205.8       198.1        235.1       187.6        133.1        125.1       114.0       1,668.4       1,668.4      2,535.9     2,600.0
ECSG                                   351.8       520.5        382.3       368.0        436.5       348.5        247.3        232.3       211.7   _  3,098.9
SUB TOTAL                        541.2       800.7        588.1        566.1       671.6        536.1       380.4        357._        325.l      4,767.3
ADA PROGRAM
I3RD (50%)                                      -           -                  -         556.1       625.8        132.3       343.5        430.0       2,087.7       2,087.7     3,173.3      3,200.0
ECSG                                     -            -       _ .              -        556.0        625.8        132.3       343.5        430.0       2,087.6
SUB TOTAL                           -            -           -            -      1,112.1      1,251.6        264.6       687.0        860.0       4,175.3
UNALLOCATED
IBRD                                    56.6       167.0        224.7       335.9      1,068.0      1,242.9       571.2        810.3        928.1      5,404.7       5,404.7      8,215.1      8,200.0
CSG lv                                79.6       190.3        184.5       243.3        367.7       368.0        2t5.1        297.8       273.3       2,298.6
cSX; 2/--                                                                                518.5        688.8       17Y.6        416.4        622_1       2,424.4
S%ALLHOLDERS                             -          21.6         50.9        83.3        121.8        144.7        52.9         15.8        (14.4)       476.6
SUB T&lAL                        136.2        378.9       460.1        662.5      2,085.0     2,444.4      1,087.8      1,540.3     1.809.1      10.604.3
TOTAL                       774.1      1.594,.6    1.684.4      2,047.2     4,967.8      5,230.9      2,237.2     2.966.8      3.194.9      24.697.9      12.408.6    180861.0    19,000.0
/ under field establishuent and SMU
2/ under ADA program



ANNEX 6
Table 3
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Disbursement Schedule and Bank Loan
Cumulative
US$'000                     US$'000
FY 75  Second Half                          200.0                       200.0
FY 76  First Half                           300.0                       500.0
Second Half                         500.0                      1,000.0
FY 77  First Half                           600.0                     1,600.0
Second Half                         500.0                      2,100.0
FY 78  First Half                           700.0                     2,800.0
Second Half                         700.0                      3,500.0
FY 79  First Half                           900.0                     4h,oo.0
Second Half                       1,600.0                      6,000.0
FY 80  First Half                         2,300.0                     8,300.0
Second Half                       1,600.0                      9,900.0
FY 81  First Half                         2,400.0                    12,300.0
Second Half                         700.0                     13,000.0
FY 82  First Half                         1,000.0                    14,000.0
Second Half                       1,100.0                     15,200.0
FY 83  First Half                        1,h00.0                    16,500.0
Second Half                       1,000.0                     17,500.0
FY 84  First Half                         1,500.0                    19,000.0
19,000.0



ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Production Estimates for the Projects
1.        Mean annual yield expectatiorn, based on experience and data which
are detailed in the Supplementary Annexes (Supplement 13) are as follows:
Metric tons/ha/year 1/
N4    N5    HI    N7    N8    N9
Smallholders         2.5   5.0   6.3   8.8  10.0  10.0
2.        Mill extraction rates are ex?ected to be as follows:
Percent              N4    NS    N6    N?    N8    N9
Oil to bunch         16    17    18    19    20    22
Kernels to bunch      4   4.5      5      5     5      5
3.        Details of production are Thon in tabIe 1.
1/   Year 0 is year of planting.



NIGETIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
ZAMT CENTRAL STATE
Pret Production of FF, Palm Oil aI Kernels
(metric tons)
planting     planted
'year        ha             1980       1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986       1987       1988      1989       1990
FFB PRODUCTION -/
1976        2,000          5,000   10,000      12,600   17,600       20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000
1977        3,000            -       7,500     15,000   18,900       26,400    30,00o    30,000    30,u00       30,000
1978        3,000            -         -         7,500   15,000      18,900    26,400    30,000    30,000    30,000
1979        4,000            -         -           -     10,000      20,000    25,200    35,200    40,000    40,000
1980        4,ooo                                           -        10,000    20 000    25 200    35 200    10 ,000
TtlF8production                         7                               Y          oo       2   c ~It ho,~,   i%<95~~-O   I%o I        MoTh1 T0T
Toi ta  St9lD ,ooo 17                                     50             r g J-b  El r 52 1 6LO) ~5
OIL PAtM PRODU[CTION 2/
1976        2,000            Bon    1,700        2,268    3,344       4,000    lb, c.o    14;)oo      4,00oo     6,600      6,)6c
1977        3,000            -       1,200      2,550    3,402        5,016     6,000      6,600      6,500      6,600      6,Goo
1978        3,000            -         -        1,200    2,550        3,402     5,oi6      6,ooo       6,600      6,600      6,60o
1979         14,000          -                     -      1,600       3,1400    14,536     6,688      8,000      8,800       8,800
198O        4,DO _0          _         _           _                  i 1600     3,400     4,536      6,688      8.o       «BQo    _ 0
Total oil pa     pr_ootion    6,1                                              9I7 2,900  508 79  I 23,,22             32,8    34,40Q                  35 35,200
KERNEL PRODUCTION
1976        2,000            200       459         630      8Bo       1,000     1,00(      1,000      1,000      1,000
1977        3,000            -         300         675      A1 5      1,320     1,500      1,500      1,500      1,o00
1978        3,000            -         -           300      675         965      1,320     1,500      1,500      1,500
1979        4,ooo            -                     -        I400        900     1,260      1,760      2,000      2,000
1980        4,ooo            -         -           -0oo                            90,0    1,260      1 760      2 000
Total kernel a oduction                         200      750       l960 2,900           14         5         7,020      7,7                    __ oo_o     o
year 14   ear 5         6    ear 7   Year 8   MEar 9 onwards
l/ yields (tons/ha)         2.5       5.0       6.3      8.5       10.0     10.0
2/ extraction rate          16%       17%      18i       19%       20%o     22%'
./ extraction rate           4%      4.5%       5%        5%        5%       5%



AN,-EX Y
Page
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Estimated Economic and Financial
Millgate Values of Palm Oil and Kernels
1.        For the purpose of this project the economic and financial prices
for palm oil and kernels have been calculated using the Bank's projections
for 1980. These projections are as follows:
Projected Prices for Palm Oil ($/MT)
Year                           Current Prices           Constant 1974 Prices
1974                                710                         710
1975                                595                         534
1976                                438                          358
1977                                458                          345
1978                                469                          327
1979                                490                          318
1980                                495                          300
1985                                757                          327
2.        The actual prices for palm oil and kernels have been as follows:
Actual Prices for Palm Oil and Kernels
(Annual Average)
1972       1973       1974 /3   1974 (Jul-Sept)
Palm Oil /1                      217        378        710              681
Palm Kernels /2                  116        259        480             417
/1   In United Kingdom ($/metric ton).
/2   In Europe ($/metric ton).
/3-  Partly estimated.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Palm Oil
3.        It has been assumed that without the proposed projects Nigeria woulti
be a net importer of palm oil by 1980. The projections indicate that by 1985
the net deficit would be around 275,000 tons of palm oil and most of this
deficit would have to be supplied from Malaysia. The Ivory Coast would be able
to supply part of this deficit but it is unlikely that the cif price would be
much below the Malaysian price. It has further been assumed that palm oil
imported or produced by the project would be sold in or around the large urban
markets of Western Nigeria, such as Ibadan. Implicit in this assumption is
that the urban and rural markets of East Central State would be fully supplied
from alternative sources. It is probable that the rural parts of East Central
State and urban areas such as Enugu would also be the markets for the project
and this would result in higher economic and financial millgate prices since
(a) the transport from port to the market would be higher, and (b) the trans-
port from the mill to the market would be less than projected with Ibadan as
the market. Hence the price estimates tend to be on the conservative side.
Furthermore projects would be in full production after 1985 and the forecasted
price for 1985 in constant 1974 terms is substantially higher than the 1980
price.
Kernels
4.        For the purposes of the economic and financial millgate prices it
has been assumed that kernels will be exported at a projected 1980 price of
US$330 per metric ton. The charges included are based on what is currently
expected to be the role of the Marketing Boards and NPMC, where the Mill can
bypass the Marketing Board and sell directly to NPMC and hence avoid any
Marketing Board commission.
5.        With the rapid expansion of crushing industries from 2 mills at
present, with a combined crushing capacity of 110,000 tons per annum, to
about 7 - 9 mills with a capacity of 350 - 400,000 tons, provided all presently
projected investment programs materialize (nearly all joint enterprises with
State participation), it is probable that a large proportion of kernels would
be processed locally and exported as kernel oil. In that case the export price
for kernel oil would be obtained and given efficiency in the crushing operations
the added value for Nigeria would be higher. Therefore taking the export prices
for kernels is again a conservative estimate.



'A :mtuc !'; 
SK.ALHOLDER Oh PALM PROJECT
EAST CEflTRAL STATE
Estimated Economic and Financial Millgate Values of Palm  OiAl
It is assumed that palm oil will be imported from Malaysia in 1980 at IJS$ 4i 55 /1
per metric ton and that the CIF Nigeria price is the same as the CIF Europe Price.
Economic              Financial
CIF Apapa (metric tons)
in 1980 prices                  US$ 495.0
in 1974 prices                  US$ 300.0 2
N   236.2 /3         N 197.4 A
Add       Import duty                                             N  39.5 15
Add       Handling, storage at port,etc. N        2.4             N   2.4L -
Add       Transport Apapa to Ibadan        N      6.0 /6          N   8.0 ¢
Less      Transport Ibadan to Mill         N     21.0 /8          N  28.0 /9
Economic Millgate Price   N   223.6              N 219.3 /10
/1   Price forecast for 1985 is US$ 757 or US$ 327 in constant 1974 prices.
7   Deflated with International Price Index(1974  100; 1980 = 1 65. 0).
7T   Applying a shadow exchange rate of N 1.00 = US$ 1.27.
E   Exchange rate:  N 1 = US$ 1.52.
/5   Based on the differential between the existing official exchange rate
and the estimated shadow exchange rate (1.52/1.27 = 20 percent).
/6   100 miles at 6 kobo per ton mile (8 kobo excluding taxes at 25 percent).
77F 100 miles at 8 kobo per ton mile.
E   400 miles at 5.25 kobo per ton mile (7 kobo excluding taxes  at 25 percent).
/9  400 rmiles at 7 kobo per ton.
/10 It was announced in April 74 that the sales tax of 10% would be abolished.



NIGERIA
SMALIHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Estimated Economic and Financial Millgate Values of Kernels
It is assumed that palm kernels will be exported and that the value will be
based on a world market price of US$ 330  1/ per metric ton in 1980.
Economic               Financial
CIF Europe (metric tons)
in 1980 prices             US$ 330.0
in 1974 prices             US$ 200.0  2/
Less      Freight and insurance             US$  30.0
FOB Nigeria (Port Harcour,
Warri)           US$ 170.0
N 133.9  3/         N 111.8  4/
Less      Handling at port                    N   1.8              N   1.8
Less      Transport to port                   N   3.1  5/          N   14.2  6/
Less      Marketing and inspection
charges  7/                      N   2.4              N   2.14
Less      Bags                                N   6.2              N   6.2
Millgate Price                N 120.4              N  97.2  8/
1/  Price forecast for 1985 is US$ 5014 or US$ 218 in constant 1974 prices.
2/ Deflated with the International Price Index (1974 = 100; 1980 = 165.0).
3/ Applying a shadow exchange rate of N 1.00 = US$ 1.27.
1T/ Exchange rate N 1.00 = US$ 1.52.
g/ 60 miles at 5.25 kobo per ton mile (7 kobo excluding taxes at 25 percent).
&/ 60 miles at 7 kobo per ton mile.
7/ To be carried out by NPMC.
5/ It was announced in April 74 that the sales tax of 10% would be abolished.



NIGERIA
SMALl.dOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Smallholder Farm Budget for 1 ha Planting
(Naira per ha)
Year:      - 1         0- L                2         3        4         5          6          7         8         9          10       11        12       13-28
Production (ton, of ffb)                                                                   2.5       5.0        6.3       8.8      10.0      J0.0       10.0      10,0      10.0      10.0
Sales  @ N 19.0/ton /1                                                                    47.5      95.0      119.1    167.2    190.0    190.0         190.0    190.0    190.0    190I o
On Farm Costa  /2
Labor                                32.5      52.0      22.8      19.5      14.6      17.1     18.7        19.5     20.2       21.1      21.9       21.9      20.3      19.5      19.5
Non-labor                             -         8.8      20. 3     L6,0      35.4      35.4~     35.4      25.0       25.0      25.0    .25.0        25.0      250(      25,~0-    25.0
Total                           32.5    150.8      43.1      45.5      50.0      52.5      54.1       44.5      45.2      46.1      46.9        46.9     45,3       44'5      44.5
Net Receipts before Grant/Credit    (32.5)  (150.8)   (43.1)   (45.5)   (50.0)    (5.0)    40.9                75.2    122,0    143.9    143.1         14'.1    144.7    145 5    145. 5
Grant Receipts /3                         -       96.3      17.8      23,5      32.9      1532 /8  35.2        10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0        10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0
Ciedit Receipts /4                       -        50.0      15.0      15.0      20.0
Cumulative Credit /5                      -       51.4      71.3      93.1    122.0    133.5    146.2         160.0
Credit Repayments /6                                                                                                     36.0      36.0      36.0        36.0      36.0      36.0       -
Net Benefits                            (32.5)    (4.5)   (10.3)      (7.0)      2.9      10.2      56.3       85.2      96.0    117.9    117.1         117.1    118.7      119.5    155.5
On Farm Labor Costs                     32.5      52.0      22.8      19.5      14.6      17.1      18.7       19.5      20.2      21.1      21.9        21.9      20.3      19.5      19.5
Gross Return  /7                          -        47.5      12.5      12.5      17.5     27.3       74.8     104.7    116.2    139.0    139.0          139.0    139.0    139.0    175.0
On Farm Man-Days                        50.0      80.0      35.0      30.0      22.5      26.25    28.75       30.0      31.0      32.5       33.75      33.75    31.25    30.0        30.0
Gross Return per MD                       -         0.6       0.4       0.4      0.8       1.0       2.6         3.5      3.7       4.3        4.1        4.1       4.4       4.6       5.8
Li Benefits calculated at constant 1974 price for ffb.
/2  On Farm Costs at constant prices; include labor costed at full market price of  65 kobo/manday; fertilizers at full roat: no contingencies.
/3  Assumling all materials for planting and establishment provided as grant (except hand tools).
/4  Cash payment of N 100.0 per ha regarded as medium-term loan.
/5  Interest capitalized at 9.5%.
/6  Based on repayment of N 3.0 per mouth for 6 years,
/7  To management, labor, land and capital.
A   Assumes maintenance of 50% subsidy on fertilizer, which will affect farmer from year 4i onwards.
/9  Year 0 is year of planting.
Mean Return per Nan-day over 30 years          t     N    4.0
Mean Net Benefits per ha over 30 years               N 108.8



ANNEX 10
NIGERIA                                                                  TTbls I
SMALL8OLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
ADA Subsidiary Pro-ectsd Cash Flow, 1979 - 1991
1979      1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985         1986        1987        1988        1989       1990        1991 0O,wards
Inflow (Constant Prices)
Sales  - Palm Oil                          -         175.4        636.0    1,319.8    2,389.5    3,519.8    1,121.1   6,189.5    7,000.8    7,543.9    7,719.4   7,719.4                  7,719.4
Sal  _s-lterssls                           -          19.4         72.9       156.0       281.9       443.7       581.3      682.4       754.3       777.6       777.6      777.6           777.6
Loan from                               1,112.1   1,251.6         264.6       687.0       860.0        -           -          -           -           -            -          -              -
State uEqity                              250.0      300.0        200.0                    -                       -          -           -           -            -          -
Total Inflow                         1,362.1   1,746.4       1,173.5    2,162.8    3,531.4    3,963.5    5,702.4   6,871.9    7,835.1    8,321.5    8,497.0   S,497.0                 8,497.0
Outflow (Constant rioos)
Oil Mill It-ootmont                     1,112.1   1,142.8         198.8       543.9       793.9       652.4         4.1       -           -           -            -          -              -
Fruit Callnction InvsatEeet                -         108.0         65.8       143.1        66.1       156.6        82.4      167.6        83.4       223.7        139.7      139.7          139.7
Proje-t  .aso Cost                    1,112.1   1,251.6         264.6       687.0       060.0        -           .          -           -                       -          .               -
Opareting Cost
Oil Mill Re-urrent  10/                    -          -            96.5       130,7       151.1       150.2       186.0      181.4       189.3        191.2       191.2      191.2          191.2
Freit Collection R-corront                 -          42.9         57.8       111.3       142.8       193.8       22533      255.2       269.2        302.8       302.      302.8          302.8
Frait Porch...s  2/                           -          95.0         332.5       666.9    1,168.5    1,810.7    2,310.4   2,667.6    2,948.0    3,040.0    3,040.0   3,040.0                3,040.0
HNad Offic-   3/                               75.0      75.0          75.0        75.0        75.0        75.0        75.0       75.0        75.0        75.0        75.0       75.0           75.0
Sob-Total                           1,187.1   1,464.5         826,4    1,670.9    2,397.4    3,046.7    2,883.2   3,346.4     3,565.7    3,832.7    3,748.7   3,748.7                3,748.7
9ebt Service on NAB/IBRD Loan 4/              50.1      156.4        224.6       267.5       337.1       605.8       605.8      605.8       605.8       605.8       605,8      605.8           605.8
Total Otflow                        1,237.2   1,620.9       1,051.0    1,938.4    2,734.5    3,652,5    3,489.0   3,952.6    4,171.5            4,438.5    4,354.5   4,354.5         4,35445
Annual Sarplus/(Defitit) Constant
Prices                                    124.9      125.5        121.5       224.4       796.9       311.0    2,213.4   2,919.3    3,663.6    3,803.0    4,142.5   4,142.5              4,142.5   12/
Comalotirt Surplns/(Oeficit)
Consta-t Prites                            -         250.4        372.9       597.3    1,394.2    1,705.2    3,910.6   6,837.9   10,501.5   14,384.5   10,527.0  22,669.5               26,812.0
Enpecntd Eff.cta of Esfletion 5/
Influw  - Solos  6/                7/      -         126.6        543.0    1,312.0    2,727.5    4,609.6    7,493.0   9,984.9   12,536.2   14,612.6   16,322.7  17,809.7                     -
Loan from Stats IBRD Loan   1,037.1   1,377.7           357.2       832.7    1,244.1         -            -                     -            -           .          -
Total Inflow                         1,037.1   1,504.3         900.2    2,144.7    3,971.6    4,609.6    7,493.0   9,904.9   12,536.2   14,612.6   16,322.7  17,809.7
Outflov - Conta Bsfoo Debt
Snerie   S/                              1,070.9   1,494.0         728.0    1,600.1    2,627.8    3,168.6    3,402.2   4,451.2    5,312.9    6,400.6    6,972.6   7,722.3
DSbt S-iee   9/                               46.7      155.2        233.4       287.0       380.4       703.5       703.55     703.5       703.5       703.5        703.5     703.5
Total Outflow                        1,117.6   1,650.0         961.4    1,887.1    3,008.2    3,872.1    4,105.7   3,154.7    6,016.4    7,104.1    7,676.1   8,425.0                    -
let Effsets of Inflation                      (80.5)    145.7        (61.2)      257.6       963.4       737.5    3,387.3   4,830.2    6,519.0    7,508.5    8,646.6   9,383.9
Annoal Suryplon/(Sfitit) Currant
Prices                                      44.4      (20.2)        61.3       482.0    1,760.3    1,048.5    5,600.7   7,749.5   10,183.4   11,391.5   12,789.1  13,516.4
Cumulati-v Socplus/(Dsficit)
Cureont Prices                              44.4       24.2         03.5       567.5    2,327.0    3,376.3    8,977.0  16,726.5   26,909.0   38,301.4   51,090.5  64,616.9
1/ In ..antant pri-es (vitheut conting.acins).
Z/ N 19 psr ton of frash fruit.
3/  Cost stinates en the basis of onistino natoton 1973-1974 budget.
4/  Rapaynont starts in 1984 and -ado in 1994.  Interst at 9%.
5/ Foe irdi-es see Tolls 2.
6/  Inflated with international price  iadea which is ensunad to eoetino-  tt 6% a ysar efter 1985.
7/  Aetusl -.ntin8nmeosi included in ADA p6ojoet cost.
N/  Actoal contingoenies for pro3Jet coat and 7% .onpoondod for all othbr costs.
9/  Diffscones bcownn debt nofvits elan latd in estat torts (withoot e-otingsnciea) and in current t-ows (with oonting.. is).
10/  1307. of esearrot esst  o f till L. Owecri-Nta to allow  foe.. ce -tn cost dos 10 pcoJeet Snnntnot of a 10 ton lint of
squip=eat in ADA's mill in ths wastern part of the pro ject ace.
11/  Effects of inflotiso  -almad for 1991 only and no fo- years owards.
12/  Aft-r last yne-  of debt se-oics a l  surplus will bo N 4,748.3 (1995 owards).
13/  locEenntal calh flow; eov-cs only oil palm p-ojeet and not other aetioitics of ADA.
August 1, 1974



ANNEX 10
Table 2
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Inflation Indices
Cost  1/                   Project Costs  2/
Inflation                    Contingencles
1974
1975                       111
1976                       119
1977                       127
1978                       136                          _            _
1979                       145                         193.3        179.4
1980                       155                         210.1        195.4
1981                       166                         234.9        219.1
1982                       178                         221.2        210.3
1983                       190                         244.7        231.1
1984                       204
1985                        218
1986                       233
1987                       2h9
1988                       267
1989                        286
1990                       306
1/  7% compounded (in year concerned only half inflation percentage).
Used to inflate costs other than project costs.
2/ Overall effect of inflation on ADA project costs using different rates
of inflation (as required by guidelines).
3/ Contingencies (physical and price) as percentage of base costs.
E/ Price contingencies as percentage of base costs and physical contingencies.



NIGERLA
ONALLhOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EANT CENTRAL STATE
East Centr.l Stats Government Praieed Cal, Flov 1975-1995
(N. 000
1971      1976         1977       1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1987        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994       1995
INFLOW
IBRD Loan   L/            2/   318.5      703.0       809.1    1,031.3   1,538.2    2,654.6    1,169.8    1,553.2          1,630.7         -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -                 -                 -
Par-nra Lean Rapnyneet  -        -          _-  -      -          -           -                      -           -            60.0       150.0       240.0       360.0       480.0       480.0       420.0       330.0       240.0       120.0          -
ALMa OnSbaldlary
repaymnenrt  31                  -          -          -           -          96.8       311.6      458.0       554.5         717.5    1,309.309   .3 .3          09.3                 1,309.3    1,309.3    1,309.3    1.309.                            3    1,309.3 1
Total Inflow               318.5      703.0       809.1    1,031.3   2,635.0    2,966.2    1,627.8    2,107.7          2,408.4    1,459.3    1,549.3    1,669.3    1,789.3    1,789.3    1,729.3    1,639.3    1,549.3    1,429.3    1,309.3   1,309.3
OUTFLOW
Field Entsbliahn..t  1/        119.0      416.6       708.4       996.0   1,460.1    1.376,2        832.7       745.3        466.9        -           -           -           -           -           .           -            -           -           -          -
InallboldPro Nanoagoe=eD
Unit  4/                      655.1   1,052.4        793.7       812.3   1,042.9       879.6        669.7      669.6         649.9      660.1       705.4       754.0       80598       864.0       925.5       990.2    1,058.2    1,132.6    1,213.5   1,297.6    1,388.2
ADA BoiOty Contrhibtion          -          _          -           -         250.0       300.0      200.0          -            -          -           -           -          -           -                        -           -           -           -          -             -
Loan to ALA                      -          -          -           -       2,149.2    2,629.3        621.8    1,519.7      2,104.1        -           -           -           -           -                       _           _           _            _          _ -
Sabsidien  61                    -          -          -           -          -          47.1        126.2       197.9       297.2       411.3       394.1       372.8       398.4       427.2       457.6      4696         923.z       560.0        600.0      641.6       6D6.4
15,nbt ServIce - oOnn Lena
C-iteasnt C-sgo  7/           91.8       88.0        82.4        75.5       62.1        42.6        28.3        18.1          6.1       -            -          -           -           -                                    -
Interest  8/                  13.5       57.0       121.2      199,4      351.1       571.8       734.4       850.1        985.4        -           -           -           -           -                                               -
PrnLpoipl  9/                             -          --          -          -         -                  -            -              I,758.6    1,758.6    1,758.6    1,758.6    1,758.6    1,758.6    1,758,6    1,758.6    1,758.6    1,758.6   1,758.6;
Total Oatflan             ,879.4   1,614.0    1,705.7    2,083.2   5,315.4    5,846.6    3,213.1    4,000.7            4,509.6    2,830.0    2,858.1       2,885.4    2,962.8    3,049.8    3,101,7    3,238.4    3,340.0    3,451.7    3,372.1   3,697.8              2,074.6
nnrpmion/(Letlctl )           (560.9)   (911.0)    (896.6)  (1,051.9) (2,680.4)  (2,880.4)  (1,585.32  (1,893.0)   (2,101.1)   (1,379.7)  (1,338.8)  (1,216.1)  (1,173.5)  (1,260.5)  (1,412.4)  (1,599.1)  (1,790.7)  (2,021.9)  (2,262.8) (2,388.5)  (2,074.6)
Cosnlati-e I-plan!
(Defivet)                    (560.9) (1j471,9)  (2,368.5)  (3,420.4) (6,100.8)  (8,981.2) (10,566.5) (12,459.5)  (14,560.7) (15,931.4) (17,240.2) (L8,456.3) (19,629.8) (20,890.3) (22,302.7) (23,901.8) (25,692.5) (27,714.4) (29,977.2)(32;365.7) (34,440.3)
j/  IEnlodlng eEntiege-rl-S.
2/ At N 2.50 per ha/month aver oine yncn nltet e seven-year grace period.
3/ loterent sneared at 9%. After 81cr yearn grace Eor principal repayneot io equal blnonoal iCstallenta
4/ Inlading cantingencie- duaing project period -nd ofterwardo inflated
at 72. ronpnouded.
5/  Calending part oP IDRD loan and Sratto non c- ntribcticc.
6/  Snbaidine  (at 58.) on fertili-nr ...d in notate *tage.  FertilLeer car dating field nntablteh.ent
folly coated ander field eta-bll-sbnot.  sab.idien itflstad ot 77. coopoanded.
7/ At 3/4% on codiob-roed l1008
8/  At 8,9Z 08 ditbarsed loan.
2/  FrinoIpAl. and Internet for bi -J tL -ePaett aver 11 yearn period.



Page 1
NIGERIA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
EAST CENiTRAL STATE
Calculation of the Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The annual costs and benefits used in calculating the economic rate
of return to the project are given in Table 1 and a summary of the sensitivity
analysis in Table 2.
(a)  Project Life
The life of the project is assumed to be 30 years and no residual
value is attributed after that period. Planting would be completed
by the end of 1980. Production would commence in 1980, and all
areas would be at full maturity by 1988;
(b)  Project Costs
The costs are those shown in Annex 5 but with the following
adjustments:
(i)  price contingencies are omitted;
(ii) identifiable taxes and duties are excluded, namely, import
duties on vehicles and equipment and certain farm inputs
and indirect taxes included in operating costs;
(iii) labor is shadow priced at 65% of the estimated financial
cost (smallholder labor 65 kobo and nursery labor 1 Naira).
The shadow wage rate reflects a weighted average of economic
wages in both peak and slack seasons;
(iv) the official foreign exchange rate does not reflect exactly
the domestic value of a unit of foreign exchange because of
taxes and subsidies. Therefore a shadow exchange rate
N 1 = $1.27 has been applied instead of the official rate of
N 1 = $1.52. This implies an estimated overvaluation of the
Naira of about 20%;
(v)  in estimating the mill recurrent expenditure, the recurrent
expenditure for the Owerri-Nts Mill (Annex 4, Table 2) has
been increased by 30% to reflect recurrent costs due to the
10 ton line in the other ADA mill;



ANNEX 1.2
Page 2
(vi) the cost of the Tree Crop Section of the Federal Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit has been distributed between oil palm,
rubber and cocoa projects on the basis of 50%, 25% and 25%
respectively. Since there are three palm oil projects, the 50%
share has been apportioned between projects on the basis of
ha's planted; and
(vii) physical contingencies (at 5% over all costs) have been
included during the project period (1975-1983).
(c) Benefits
(i) Yields and production estimates are given in Annex 7;
(ii)  economic prices have been based on the Bank's price
projections for palm oil and kernels.  The price
projections are $495 per metric ton of palm oil in 1980
($300 in constant 1974 terms) and $330 per metric ton of
kernels in 1980 ($200 in constant 1974 terms).  The economic
millgate prices for palm oil (N 223.6) and kernels (N 120.4)
are given in Annex 8.
(iii) the value of project palm oil is treated as foreign exchange
savings (import substitution) and the value of kernels as
foreign exchange earnings;
(iv)  no additional benefits due to road development are taken
into consideration; and
(v) the Owerri-Nta Mill is commissioned in 1981, but fruit
collected in 1980 is either processed in ADA's pioneer
mills, or sold at the local market. It is assumed that
under these circumstances only 25% of benefits will be
realized.
2.        Based on these assumptions the economic rate of return is 19.7%.
A 10% increase in costs with benefits unchanged reduces the rate of return
to 18.2%.   As usual, where project benefits occur after a long development
period the rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs and
benefits (Table 2). Even in the case of costs increasing by 20%, and benefits
decreasing by 20%, the economic rate of return is 13.6%.
3.        Without shadow pricing of labor and foreign exchange the economic
rate of return is 16.4%.



SUALHIJISWR OIL, P04.8 PROJECT
RAFr CENTRA1 STATE
Sate of Rotor CalomIatios
1975       1976        1977       1978        1979        1980       1981        1982        1983       1994        1905        1986        1987       1988        1989        1999        1991        1992        1993/2004
COSTS
SoaIlholder field establishment                         96 7      415.0       636.2       919 6   1 09 1         998.8       50  4      382.1       200.1        ----------
Labor                                              30.0      217.4       349.0      425.8       560.8       538.1      212.9       136.5        38.5        --                                 -------
Local. cots                                        38.2      103.1       135.8      171.6       216.2       152.4       66.5        55.1        31.53                                                                                                       
Forign  achooge Costa                              28.5       94.5       151.4      221.2       322.1       300.3      225.0       190.5       010.3        -                                  ------
Ss,ellboldor  field sold  enance  -    -           -           -          -          104.9       745.6      409.7       595.9       787.5   - 742.7        751.70_4    737.5-5.    736.0      734.0_2725.02715.23                 702.0         712.9
Labor-                                                        -           ---                                34.1       80.6       146.3       223.1      504.3       520.6       551.7       337,3      558.6       534.0       525.0       351.2       312.0         51 2.0
Loca  Costs .                                                                                                15.7        59.0       57.2        05,6      109.6       100.5        95.0        92.0        92.0       97.9        92.0        92.0        92.0          92.0
Forign Eochange  -toos-                                       -                                              55.1      137.9       505.2      509.2       374.6       541.5       506.0       308.0      509.0       309.0       308.0       308.0       308.0         509.0
,MU7 - -,Anao...nt and overhed  cotO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
05 _ Ood.....t  ca_pitol cnoc                         59.1       45.4        -           11.1         9.4       -            9.1         6.4       -            4.0         4.0         4.0        4.8         4.6         4.8         4.0        4.8         4.9             .
S181 He-dqna..er-  personl  -ots                       137,0      13531        156.2      1l ~ 2     107.5      168.4       100.4       106.4      100.4       100.4       166.4       108.4      100.4       100.4       108.4       108.4       100.4      100.4          109.4
01817 Sedno-rt-rar--ncc         -ts                       9.2       14.9        14.8       14.0P       14.9        14.0       14.6        14.7       14.0        14.0        14.6        14,0        14.7'      14.0        14 .9       14.8        14.8        14.8          14.0
918 MM eoR ooi   Om.1    its c-pirol co..s             140.41      13 7.9       29.        0 ,  2.3    55.9        74.0o      12.5        -           -           9.6         9.8    .6               8,6         0.6        9.6         0.6         9.6         9.9           9.6
S00 Rogional Uoits personal  . cots                    132,7       220.4      245.4       274.4 .     337.0      515.3       215.4       206.4      101.0        I 17.7     16 7.5      167.7      167.2       14 7.2      167.2       19 7.,2     167.2      167.2          167.2
100 Regional UIiSto  ---cotcot                          14.1        26.2        51.0       51.0        37.4        57.4       21.l,       21,4       21,4        19.9        19.9        19.6        lv.F       19.9        19.9        09.9        19.9        19.9          19,93
Road loprov-.et progra                                  -          154.5        82.7       70.3        69.4        56.2       -             
Teloinol                                                53.6        59.2        244         1.          95         -          -           -           --                     - --- ----                                                             --
Sob  tota                                              545,2900.7              500,       566,1       6~71.6      53~6,1     300.4       5574       325.7       555.9       3256        525,6       523.6      525.6       523.6       ?37.6       325.6       323.6         132.6
Loca  costs                                      351110      551.2       473.4      465.2       541 I.7     465.3      327.7       313.4       297,7      279.0       279.0       279.0       779.0  2--79.0 -       279.0       279.0       279.9       279.          279.0
F-rogo E-cbango F-sco                             160.2      249.5       114,7      104.9       178.9        70.0        53.2       44.0        30.0        44.6       44.6        44.6        441. I      44.6        445.6      449.6       44.6        494 .06       44.4
Mill Sovetn-nt                                          -           -           -          -        1,117.9    1,142.9       197.0       543.9      7539        657.4         4.1        -           -           -          -           -           -           -             -
Fron  Folotio   nv"r1       .                            -          -                                  -          100,0       65.0       1453.1       66.1      156.1        07.4       167.6        87 5      223.7       139.7       159.7       159,7       139,7         159.7
Mi ll R__ncet  1/                                                                                                             946.5      130.7       151.1      150,1       106,0       101.4       109.5       191.2      191.2       191,2       591.7       191.2         191.2
Frnit Cl101-L00 bR-, ..c                                                                                            2 9-    5_7 98       11.         42.9       193.9       2Ž?553      258,       263,2       102 9       3829        1 02.8      302.8       30~,f,....,..,.,2L
Sob t0101                                                                                           _ -1 11 2, 1   1-707 5   418.  9..,9?.%       11...L5i.2.,...,161½1.-_   497.8      60.7        54~1,9     717.7-      635.7       633.7       655.7      633.7          63.3Z
"oca  -mob                                        .                                             2i01       719        2412 9      639,6       807.2       799.3      386.7       349.9       333.3       399.6       574.4      374.4       374.4       574.4         374.4
F.trig   Cohag2los                                            -           .                                  i7        176.0       790.4       551.7      361.7       191.1       254.3       208.6       519.1      259.5       159.3       259.5       259.3         289.3
Monitoring and E-1-t inc Oinisi-   2/                   91.4        55.9        94,1       B6. 1       796 1      /7         74 9         50.4        50.4                   -           -           -           -           -          -           -           -             -
Total C-oto  3/                                        7 65.07 _,5Th1 ..? - 0 1757. 15'             3 1 1"       h        1, 72 4I, ,,,2234.5f5.   44..J,2.3    2,272.1    1.583.6    1,659.5    1.602_,9    1779.7    1,691.3    1,603.3    1,672.5    1,669.3           1,669.3
of obich - labor rosin 3  3' 1.5                            227.        567.5      441         5~8         6(,I;      %66         296.9      255,7       304.5       329.6       351.7       357.5      550.0       354.0       315.0       515.2       312.0         315.0
loa   ot    /                      504.4       75I 9      Yhi,..5     725,6   1,502 n                         . 7   , 7  1, 157,0    1,500.5    1,006.9  606.0      720.9      704.3       770.6       745.4       745,4       741.4      741.4          745.4
f-oigo  -ohnoo.g    ot   3               779_        594.0       517,4      777       1 411. 0    1 It         £.." C      704.7       041. 1     780.9       577.0       606.9       51.2        670.7      611.9       611.9       611.9       611.9         611.9
lab-  -tOO           4/                                 20Th~      149,4       Ž117~   1'1II          567 7       5501 5     24  1      197."        197.7      197,0       208.4       215.6       719.       219.7       217.1       211.5       204.9       202.8         202.
loca   -oo-                                            50.46       777          0-         2~,       "',,    1 4/.10         70. 11 1 , I51 2   1 177'. 5   1,160,9         606.0       720.9       700.3      770.6       745.4       7541.       745.4       741.4         745.4
f-rig,, -ohonge coL~ t /                               7,7.1       472..E                 441     I1 f~Cb6           76      11  1       9__0_P        5.5       857.91-    692.4       72893,5     675.4  8.,   04.8       734,5      734.3       774.3       74.3          754.5
Snh total                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~007.8   1,57-5.1   1, 4Cj  4    1,401)  .17' ;2   5,117 7    70,74.    7  4  2  ii0n. 0   21,21.9    1,906.9    1,664.0    1,596.9    1,795.1   1,696.0    1,691.0    1,694.6,   1,602.3           5,691.5
las s canes               .(2L.i)......,.±SIAIX.  ,Jjg ,f(  ,,,jj,,,,)    ('5 71 ~~77.9)         ),55 1)    ( 5 47      QiS._5),_,A_5  04) h(L  (5454511                            192.976170.5)8172.259(7275757727555)  (72.5)  (72.51         (72,5
Oco..onic Foote                                   769.7   9,,~j2.l      .s95   1                          3757     701 /   r,21-.k_2, 415...32 20.9i    537. 7 _                   I596.2  t1,5376.1,,_,,12.j,,,_,,,,)624 3 j,661_2 ,611    1,610.   1O6~10.0
BENEFITS
Palo oil                                                 -44 17 7/  640.4   1,545.4   2,4 r6.5   5,994.7    5,721,5    6,310.9    7,219.6   7,691.9    7,870.7   7,970.1    7,807.7    7,970.7                                                                             7,870,7
Kernls                                                                                                              6.0 7/   90.3        193 2       545.5       549.6      720.0       845,2       914,3       963,2       963.2      963.2       963.2       965.1          993.2
Residoal valo    6/                                      -                                                              5      21.0                               -           ---                                              
Total B-efit.                                                                                                      59.2       759.7   1,550 9   2,795.5   4,444.3   5,941,5   7,156.1    0,153.9    8,655.0   8,033.9   8,633.9    8,833.9   9,053.9                       9,035.9
130195 of -e-orrot cots of nill In 0-sari Nts to  IlI-  for  r.c...n ..              or  don 1 to ho p-ojo-t       esmn  of a10  nn lone of oqn,tp-c  in, ADA'o mill in, the  -t-  pert of the pro) ater
2/507. of cots of  -oioload ..valoation division charged to oil polo projecc,  divided bet--eo  statn  and s-ollhldors ond  -oclo-o                             aao  pot ho boom.   SIT is F-orig    -honge, reminder loca  cot-
3/ -orldes physirl1  -onioga-ias (57.) notil 1993.
4/ Shadow Priced tr 65%.
7/  Shadoo  Pe1ed at $1 - N 1.27 as coopare.d efth $1 - 8 1.52 selcb ..e..s. p-onine of 205..
6/  Residoal yams of rod eqoipo-t Ia 1980 (N 8.500) a-d of s..rplos 1S7 vehiclee in 1991 (N 21,006).
7/  oil Palo mill nosisnio...d i,n 1981.  F-it procssd before in ADA pioneer  oil nll. or sold tin  h  .bs loa   -krbt.  It he asemod rhot 25% of benfits sIll ho relised moder thes    tno-taos



ANNEX 12
Table 2
NIGERTA
SMALLHOLDER OIL PAIN PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE
Economic Rate of Return. Sensitivity Analysis
% of Original Estimates             ------ ------ Rate of Return               -
Costs          Benefits         With Shadow Pricinz    Without Shadow Pricing
100              100                 19.65                       16.35
100               90                 18.05                       14.75
100              110                 21.15                       17.75
110              100                 18.15                       14-95
110               90                 16.55                       13.35
110              110                 19.65                       16.35
120              100                 16.85                       13.65
120               90                 15.25                       12.05
120               80                 13.55                       10.35
120              110                 18.35                       15.05



IBRD 1!i9+6,
W  E       S       T       E       R       N                                                                                                                N I G E -:  I A   CHAXD 
\                                                  \S                    !                          j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B E N U E-    ! NIGER Af,
Q                     9o>  bdn(                                                                      X1                                          P L A T E A  U                                   5}-- 4    -
o    *                                                            1  ~~~~~~~~M I D-                         ,,,                                   o        ,r  b 
t §                                                     -_\ 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WESTERN                                                      e   9r. '  =-
W   - f,---  @                   <       ~~~~~~~~OkitipvprJo  ,                                                              Enugu                                                 J
LAGOS                  -                                                                 A    ",BnnCt   (Ef{                                                         t
t    55e:             O~~~~~Agbor    ;                                             J       +r
-     N    I G    E  R  I A                                                                                                                                         A,,t EAST  -t --- 
,. -- . ,>t'. C ~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                   N TRA   L T ,(x   o-(< 
071L PALM          PROJECTSAREAS                                                                       t1
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                           ID >    ///Umrha </< 1
STATE CAPItALS                                                 --      ,                          ' f _OwerriO                                                                    0  j       
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                 - t                        ,   ;                                      _  
--RIVERS5                                                                                   "Y'-  z     ~            t   Abo                  
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIeS                             ,                                     ,f ,                       .O a                                    7 
1 , ,/J >t/a 1 z I_t C1 ; ~~~~~~~~Calabar 
20         40  MIL        E 80    100                       IS                                                          \Rll VEtR S YoHarcourt   ;;
0   20   40  60  80   ro0 120  140  160                                                                                       r+(a ~>W<_8   ,_J -J'-
17w bounldarie, shnlvm on th2ls lylap d,v ,20r 
4r                                   hilpl; e 1ldes-renieszbmo v  llr.epr.0wle hzf rhe
4'    Iw-rd Banlkand it, alflftwes.                   6                                                     81~                                 -        ARi  7 






a   6045          NIGERIA                      70010                                                   15                                       730'
EAST CENTRAL STATE                                                      MILES
Oil Palm  Project                                      0,,,,I,   1               5   20   2,5
p                  ~~~~~KILOMETERS                           :\>
Project area boundary
*       Proposed mill sites
®3     Proposed regional units
A      Fruit collection points            ,
-5-             Existing main roads                 PI                                                                                      UAHI                   5'30'-
30'             Existing secondary roads                                                               Ezebor
~Project roads, paved                            OER
…--Project roads, earth                 /i 
-  -State boundary
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
WJ~~ld o ro          0Th  edm_mehm ,n hin,o d_ otT
7IhiteWoeld Bonk nod ittofjtttoteo



