FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-I65I-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO NIGERIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
IN THE
EAST-CENTRAL STATE
June 5, 1975
IThis report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =          Naira (N) 0.66
Nl.00                     US$1.52
Ni million                US$1.52 million
Since April 1, 1974 the Naira has floated independent
of the U.S. dollar. Twice weekly, the Central Bank
sets buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar
and b sterling. The Naira has appreciated steadily
vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar, and by July 1, 1974 the
average quotation was Ni = US$1.622 or 6.7 percent
above the previous central rate of Nl = US$1.52.
The latter has been used for currency conversions
throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR A SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT IN THE EAST-CENTRAL STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nigeria for the equivalent of US$19.0 million to.help finance a smallholder
oil palm project in the East-Central State of Nigeria. The loan would have
a term of 20 years including a five-year grace period with interest of 8-1/2
percent per annum. The loan would be onlent by the Borrower to the State
government under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank; the
terms are expected to be the same as for the Bank loan, with the possible
exception of the grace period. The State Government would onlend part of
the proceeds of the Bank loan to a subsidiary company of the Agricultural
Development Authority (ADA), to be established under the project, for a term
of 20 years including a nine-year grace period with an interest rate of not
less than the Bank's lending rate. Credits to smallholders would be channeled
through cooperatives, and would be for a term of 13 years including a seven-
year grace period, at an interest rate of 9-7/2 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Nigeria" (416-UNI) dated August 5, 1974 was distributed to the Executive
Directors. Country data sheet are attached as Annex I.
3.        As documented in the Economic Report, economic progress in Nigeria
since 1970 has been rapid and sustained. During the period from 1970/1 to
1974/5, GDP at constant prices rose at an average annual rate of 8.2 percent,
with growth averaging well over 15 percent per annum in the mining, public
utilities, construction and transport sectors. Capital formation as a propor-
tion of the rapidly rising GDP rose from less than 15 percent in 1970/1 to
about 20 percent by 1973/4. External reserves rose from $264 million at the
end of 1970 to about $5,700 million at the end of 1974. Implementation of
the public sector investment program under the Second Development Plan
(1970/1 - 1973/4) also increased substantially, and at the end of 1973/4
about 70 percent of the revised capital expenditure program of $5.3 billion
had been disbursed. In 1974, the Government extended the Second Plan by a
year to allow for the completion of some of the remaining programs.
4.        The already rapid momentum of growth will now be accelerated further
within the framework of the Third National Development Plan, by far the most
ambitious development planning effort in Nigeria to date. The Plan will cover
the period from April 1975 through March 1980. Economic growth, in real terms,
is projected to be of the order of 9 percent per annum, with per capita income



- 2 -
increasing to twice the current level of $250 by tthe mid-1980s. Although
absorptive capacity is expected to remain a major determinant of the actual
size and efficiency of the investment program, development will be unhampered
by the usual constraints of savings and foreign exchange. The Plan projects
substantial accumulation of external reserves during the Plan period, the
exact magnitude depending primarily on the economic conditions prevailing in
the world oil industry. The Plan also notes that the surplus of investible
funds will decline steadilv over the Plan period as the economy rapidly
expands its absorptive capacity.
5.        The core of the Third Plan is the public sector investment program.
Total allocations amount to $53 billion, but the effective program is
projected by the Government to be only $32 billion because of the substantial
slippages expected. Public investment is projected to represent about two-
thirds of total investment expenditures in the economy over the five-year
period. The Plan's development strategy, as reflected in the public invest-
ment program, may be summarized as follows:
(a) Accelerated agricultural and rural development is the most
important aspect of the Government's long-term development
strategy. Public sector investment in agriculture under
the Third Plan is aimed primarily at providing the infrast-
ructure and incentives necessary for private, particularly,
smallholder, development. Planned direct public investment
in the sector, amounting to almost $4 b:Lllion, includes the
development of several major river basins for large-scale
as well as smallholder farming; an accelerated food crop
development program aimed at adopting and disseminating
modern farming techniques to smallholder farmers; programs
to improve input distribution and marketing of food and
export crops; and the several agricultural development
projects with which the Bank is associated. While the
allocation is considerably smaller in financial terms than
the allocations for capital-intensive sectors such as trans-
port and industry, it is nevertheless a very ambitious pro-
gram in the context of the low-technology and smallholder-
orientated nature of Nigerian agriculture and represents a
seven-fold increase over the previous Plan's allocation for
the sector.  In addition, the Plan includes substantial pro-
grams in rural electrification, feeder road construction,
water supply and other social infrastructure, which represent
the Government's major efforts to promote rural development.
Recognizing that "about 70 percent of the Nigerian population
live in the ruraL areas and have benefited relatively little
from the rapid economic growth of the past few years," and
that "improvement in the welfare of the average Nigerian will
require a substantial increase in rural incomes", the Plan
also states that "in the allocation of scarce resources in
the course of plan implementation, priority will be given to



-3-
those programs and projects directly benefiting the rural
population, particularly projects to increase the income of
smallholder farmers and to improve the economic and social
infrastructure in the rural areas."
(b) Increased supply of public social services at heavily subsidized
costs is viewed as the major means of distributing the immediate
benefits of the oil boom to the bulk of the population. The
core of this program is the Universal Primary Education Scheme
aimed at achieving 100 percent enrollment for primary-age
children by 1980. Other significant programs include a massive
low-cost housing program for the major urban centers, and
health, water and electric supply programs for rural areas.
Financial allocations totalled $4 billion for education,
$3 billion for housing, $2 billion for water and sewerage
and $1 billion for health.
(c) Planned investment in transport, which receives the largest
single allocation ($12 billion), power and communication
($2 billion each) reflect to a large extent the Government's
strategy to create "in the relatively short time that the
economy will enjoy a surplus of investible resources the
economic and social infrastructure necessary for self-
sustaining growth in the longer run when resource scarcity
may recur". In these sectors, "investment leading to what
may appear to be excess capacity will nevertheless be
undertaken in the expectation that demand would catch up much
earlier than historical trend indicates".
(d)  In industry, which receives a total allocation of $9 billion,
the objective is to diversify the petroleum industry into
downstream operations such as liquified natural gas, oil
refineries for export as well as domestic consumption,
fertilizers and other petrochemical industries, and to
establish basic industries, such as iron and steel, cement,
pulp and paper. Most of these large-scale projects will be
implemented by foreign "technical partners," with Government
retaining majority equity ownership. The State Governments'
industrial projects are mainly in the agro-allied and building
materials industries.
6.        The financial arrangements for the Third Plan involve a substantial
and very important change in the Federal/State revenue-sharing system. Speci-
fically, "as from the 1st of April 1975 all portions of Customs and Excise
duties formerly payable to State Governments on the basis of derivation would
be payable to the Distributable Pool Account; the percentage of petroleum
royalties payable to State Governments on the basis of derivation would be
reduced from 45 percent to 40 percent and the Federal Government will surrender
its entire share of both on-shore and off-shore royalties into the Distributable



-4 -
Pool Account. Allocations to State Governments from the Distributable Pool
Account will be on the formula to 50 percent on the basis of population and
50 percent on the basis of equity." As a result of these changes, the States'
share of Federal revenues will increase by about 50 percent, and these revenues
will be distributed more evenly among the twelve States. These changes should
therefore ensure that, during the Third Plan period, the States will be able
to generate sufficient budgetary surpluses to finance at least two-thirds of
their investment programs, thus correcting the anomalous situation during the
Second Plan whereby State investment programs were being postponed because of
financial constraints while the Federal Government was accumulating large sur-
plus resources. Another significant government decision in this connection is
that revenue sharing will henceforth be considered an integral part of economic
planning and not, as hitherto, a constitutional issue; specifically, revenue
will in future be allocated among the various Governments of the Federation
according to their needs and ability to finance their approved development
programs.
7.        The Plan, recognizing that management capacity will remain the major
constraint to growth, includes several proposals to streamline project imple-
mentation, including procurement procedures to facilitate the production and
import of essential raw materials and capital goods, and to provide extensive
training for high-level manpower. Limitations on the use of expatriates for
high priority investment projects will also be relaxed. A more far-reaching
effort in this general direction has been the so-called Udoji Commission.
In recognition of the much more important role that the public sector will
have to assume during the Third Plan than hitherto, a public service review
commission was appointed two years ago to examine the federal and state civil
services, statutory corporations, the police, judiciary, universities and
schools. Its report, published in December 1974, recommended widespread re-
organization, including introduction of the principle of promotion by merit
rather than seniority, management training schemes, a unified salary structure
and salary increases averaging about 60 percent. Unfortunately, most atten-
tion has so far been concentrated on the new salary scales for the civil
service; employees in the private sector have alsc, demanded and received, to
a large extent, similar wage increases, thereby negating to some extent the
intended change in salary differentials between the private and public sector.
At the moment, the immediate result of the Udoji Commission's report has been
intensified inflationary pressures in the urban centers and increased dispari-
ties in rural-urban incomes. For the longer-run, however, the Udoji Report
represents an important step towards the reorganization of the public sector
for its substantially expanded role under the Third Plan, and the Government
is currently reviewing the broader aspects of its recommendations in this
regard.
8.        While a radical transformation of the national economy is the
long-term objective of the Govermuent's economic policies, its immediate pre-
occupation relates to the intensified inflationary pressure caused by the
recent increase in prices of imported goods and services and the sharp rise
in domestic wages and salaries. A major part of the 1975/6 Federal Budget,
announced on April 1, 1975, has therefore been directed towards measures aimed



- 5 -
at reducing the pace of domestic inflation. These included substantial reduc-
tion of import duties on building materials, raw materials and essential
consumer goods; abolition of excise duties on light industrial products
produced locally; and other tax reliefs for domestic companies. Foreign
exchange restrictions have also been further liberalized. Reflecting the
improved liquidity position of the economy, the Government has also lowered
the interest rate on Treasury Bills and the minimum and maximum lending
rates of commercial banks. Producer prices for the major agricultural products
have been further increased by 10 to 50 percent. Since the marketing board
system was re-organized in 1972/3, producer prices for the major cash crops
such as cocoa, palm oil and kernel, groundnut and cotton have enjoyed substan-
tial increases ranging from 150 percent to well over 200 percent. With respect
to the country's balance of payments prospects, the Budget appears to be less
sanguine than the Third Plan, probably because oil production has decreased
steadily since October 1974 from about 2.3 million barrels per day to less
than 1.9 million b/d in recent months. Nevertheless, the surplus of foreign
exchange inflows over outflows during 1975/6 is projected to be about $2.4
billion, which should increase the country's external reserves to about $8
billion, representing about two years import values by early 1976.
External Assistance
9.        There has been no fundamental change in the nature of Nigeria's
long-term development problems over the last two years. However, the sub-
stantial increase in resources has enlarged Nigeria's options and potential
for development. In this context, Bank project assistance has a valuable
role, not so much as a means of transferring financial resources, but as a
vehicle for technical assistance to prepare and execute investment programs
commensurate with the country's potential. In fact, assistance to help
accelerate investment in the more intractable areas such as agriculture and
rural development and to increase executive and managerial capacity in the
infrastructure sectors is the more urgent as the country's resources increase.
The Federal Government's attitude towards external capital is that it should
complement, not compete with domestic resources, and this applies to official
development assistance as well as private investment. It, therefore, attaches
particular importance to projects and programs which act as catalysts to
investment efforts in the high priority areas, and which increase indigenous
capability to control, manage and promote the growth of the economy efficiently
in the future. The Bank, as an independent and effective multilateral de-
velopment agency, has become the major source of this type of assistance.
10.       Nigeria's creditworthiness is not in question.   As of December 31,
1972, total external public and publicly guaranteed debt amounted to an
estimated $1,035 million. Debt sservice in 1974 is estimated at less than
1 percent of gross exports. In view of Nigeria's substantially improved
resource position, and the attendant uncertainty about the level of future
borrowing, it is impossible currently to estimate what the Bank's share of
Nigeria's total outstanding debt or debt service will be over the next five
years. Although the Bank Group's share of total external public debt (includ-
ing undisbursed) at the end of 1972 was about 45 percent, this was evidence



- 6 -
more of Nigeria's low level of external debt ($15 per capita in 1972) than of
substantial lending by the Bank ($7.50 per capita, including undisbursed at
the end of 1974). Debt service is not currently a relevant factor in determin-
ing Bank lending.
Tl.       During the past year, Nigeria has become a donor as well as a recipient
af external aid.  In 1974, it increased its subscription to the African Develop-
ment Bank and announced that: it will not longer seek to borrow from that insti-
tution; donated $800,000 to the Consultative Group for International Agricultural
Research, thus becoming the first developing country to become a donor; contri-
buted $120 million to the DIF Oil Facility, purchased $240 million of World
hank bonds and increased its holdings of two-year Central Bank bonds by $30
million. The Government hasi indicated its intention of using some of its
foreign exchange surplus to assist other developing countries, particularly in
Africa. It has already made direct grants to several African countries suffer-
ing from the effects of the recent drought. During the Third Plan period,
Nigeria intends to intensify its aid efforts to African countries in the field
of technical assistance, scholarship awards, supply of skilled personnel and
r-elief assistance in cases of national disaster such as earthquakes, droughts
and floods.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
12.       Bank/IDA lending to Nigeria to April 30, 1975, amounted to $708.6
million (net of cancellations). In addition, a loan for a third agriculture
project ($21.0 million for the Gombe Agricultural Development Project) is
expected to be signed shortly. Of the total lending, $395 million was committed
during the Second National Development Plan period (1970-1975). The principal
amount of loans and credits disbursed at April 30, 1975, was about $398.7 million
(including IDA exchange adjustments), leaving an undisbursed balance of effective
loans and credits of about $273.4 million. Transport and power together account
far $408 million or about 48 percent of total commitments, and agriculture,
education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan account for the re-
maining 42 percent. Gross disbursements in FY1974 were about $40 million;
and during the current fiscal year are expected to be $53 million. Disbursements
are expected to increase substantially over the next few years due. the rapid
drawdown against the remainin1g highway, port and power ioans.  Thereafter, the
rate of disbursement will reflect the relatively slow disbursing nature of
agriculture and education projects which will then be the main components of
our portfolio. The executioni of projects has generally been satisfactory.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments and
nates on the execution of ongoing projects.
13;.      Bank activities since 1970 have generally been aimed at assisting
Nigeria in the following three broad areas: (a) reconstruction and reha-
bilitation of the economy after the civil war; (b) institution-building in
the public sector; and (c) extensive economic, sector and project preparation
wGrk. A basic economic mission and agriculture, education and transportation



-7-
sector missions have visited Nigeria during this period, and extensive assist-
ance has been provided to the State Governments in identifying and preparing
projects designed to raise the production and incomes of small farmers.
14.       The agricultural sector is the main focus of the Bank's current
activities in Nigeria. The proposed project supports the Federal Government's
development objectives of investing oil revenues to promote rural development
for the benefit of the bulk of the population. These objectives are reflected
in the Third National Development Plan under which direct investment in
agriculture, though still relatively small, represents a seven-fold increased
over the previous Plan's allocation. Bank lending over the next two or three
years is likely to be restricted to a limited number of projects where the
Bank's presence will contribute to the efficiency of investment in high priority
sectors, particularly projects that will benefit the rural and urban poor.
15.       Negotiations for loans for an irrigation project in Kano State and
for smallholder rubber development in Mid-Western State have recently been
concluded. Preparation work on two rural development projects in the Beneu
Plateau and Kwara States, similar to the three Northern Projects approved
in December 1974, is underway. A project for the development of small-scale
industries has been appraised and preparation work for two water supply
projects have been undertaken. However, the Federal and State Governments
involved have not yet decided if they will seek Bank financing for the water
supply projects. No further lending is presently envisaged for highways,
power or education, which were important areas of Bank Group involvement in
the past; however, the Bank will continue to provide technical assistance
in these sectors through the supervision of ongoing projects.
16.       Early in 1973, the Bank agreed on a 50/50 cost-sharing formula for
agricultural projects, and the three oil palm projects under consideration
today are the last of the projects covered by that arrangement. In the light
of Nigeria's dramatically improved financial situation, discussions have been
initiated with the Federal Government with a view to reducing the extent of
Bank participation in cost-sharing in future projects, and in particular to
eliminating Bank financing of local cost-expenditures.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA
17.       Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry is by
far the most important source of output and employment: in 1971/72 it
contributed about $4 billion or 46 percent of the country's gross domestic
product and about 70 percent of the labor force is estimated to be employed
in this sector.
18.       Nigerian agriculture is primarily domestic market oriented.   Nearly
90 percent of her production - comprising all staple food crops and animal
products, most palm oil and cotton, and a substantial part of groundnuts - is
consumed within the country. Nigeria is nearly self-sufficient in foods.



- 8 -
In 1971-72, total imports of food and beverages - of which meat, milk and
sugar are the main items - were of the order of $145 million or less than
5 percent of estimated total food consumption. Exports of agricultural
products in 1971-72 were valued at $265 million. Until the mid-sixties, they
were the dominant element in Nigeria's export trade, but have since been over-
taken by crude oil. Even so, they are still a significant source of foreign
exchange and account for the bulk of the non-oil exports.
19.       Nigeria can be divided into three major agricultural and ecolog-
ical zones; a southern wet forest zone comprising the Western, Mid-Western,
East-Central, South-Eastern and Rivers States, characterized by high rainfall
and a tropical climate and growing mainly perennial tree crops, namely cocoa,
rubber and oil palm; a central dry forest zone known as the middle belt
embracing the whole of Kwara State, Benue Plateau, the southern parts of
North-Western, North-Central and North-Eastern States which is underpopulated
and tsetse infested, but has a high potential for annual food crops and live-
stock; and a northern zone which, being free from tsetse has a high population
density and a fairly intensive and developed system of agriculture. This area
covers about 50 percent of the country, and in addition to supporting most of
Nigeria's cattle population, also produces most of her cereals, beans, ground-
nuts and cotton.
20.       Land holdings are typically small.   The average farmed area per
holding for the country as a whole is estimated to be less than three
acres. In some of the more densely populated areas of the south, the
average is less than one acre. There are few farm families with more than
25 acres of cultivated area. Farmers follow for the most part traditional
techniques of which bush fallowing and mixed cropping are characteristic
features. The practice of bush fallowing is essentially a device to main-
tain soil fertility. Mixed cropping permits farmers to get more output
per acre with smaller risks of crop failure. However, since improved seed,
fertilizers and other elements of modern technology are used on a very
limited scale, average yields are still low. Small holdings and poor produc-
tivity explain the relatively low level of income in the agricultural sector.
There are also considerable disparities in the distribution of land and
incomes both between and within regions.
21.       While reliable data are lacking, it is believed that agricultural
production since the early sixties has been growing only slightly faster
than population. Agriculture has certainly been growing much slower than
other sectors, and as a result, its share in GDP has been declining. The
relative sluggishness of agriculture is largely attributable to the exist-
ing low level of agricultural technology. The disruption of production in
the eastern states during the civil war was an aggravating factor. Since
then, the recovery has been hampered by short-term factors such as drought
in parts of the north in 1972-73 and 1973-74, but, more particularly, by
a number of underlying long-term influences. Some of the most important
factors among these are the rising age-profile of tree crops, technical and
other constraints to accelerated food crop production, e.g., the lack of



-9-
improved crop varieties and adequate credit facilities to finance the pur-
chase of modern farm inputs. Imports of food, though still small, have
risen from around $70 million in 1965-66 to $145 million in 1972. The slow
growth of production has also affected exports. Cocoa and rubber exports
have remained stagnant in recent years. Palm oil exports have dwindled to
negligible amounts and palm kernel exports are stagnating at well below
pre-war levels. Groundnut exports in 1972 were some 80 percent below the
1965 level and were even lower in 1973 because of the drought in the north.
In addition the availability of groundnuts for export has been affected by
substitution of groundnut for palm oil in domestic consumption and the rela-
tively better price offered to farmers by private traders. Cotton, once a
major export, is now fully utilized by the local textile industry and local
supply cannot meet demand.
22.       A vigorous effort to step-up the growth of agricultural and live-
stock production is essential for viable development of the economy. The
.demand for agricultural products is growing rapidly. On a rough estimate,
the resources generated by the oil sector would be adequate to sustain a
growth rate of over 9 percent per annum in real terms over the next decade.
This will generate a 6 percent average annual increase in domestic demand
for farm products. Unless the rate of agricultural growth is accelerated,
the economy faces the prospect of large and increasing food imports. More
importantly, continued slow growth of agricultural production implies a
slow improvement in the living conditions of the mass of the population with
the attendant risks of further aggravation of rural-urban disparities.
23.       Nigeria has vast unexploited potential for increasing agricultural
production. The productivity of practically all segments of agriculture -
food, export crops, and livestock - are far below levels attainable with
modern farming methods. In addition there are extensive areas of good agri-
cultural and grazing land which, if developed along scientific lines, could
greatly increase production. While improved varieties and techniques adapted
to local conditions are not available for all crops and regions, much can be
done on the basis of existing knowledge. Significant improvements in pro-
ductivity of many of the major export and cereal crops have been demonstrated
to be technically and economically feasible. The main constraints are organi-
zational and institutional: until recently Government efforts to help the
farmers to learn and apply the known techniques for raising production have
not been on a scale commensurate with needs and possibilities. Extension
services in many states are poorly staffed, credit and marketing institutions
are few, planning is weak and the expertise needed to implement successfully
major agricultural and other rural development projects is in short supply.
There are also complex social and institutional problems to be overcome before
the land potential, including the resources of the middle belt, can be effec-
tively exploited, and the livestock industry organized along modern lines.
24.       The Federal and State Governments are conscious of the need for
greater attention to agriculture and of the impediments to be overcome before
significant progress can be achieved. Several major new programs initiated
within the last year or two bear witness to a heightened Government concern



- 10 -
for and interest in agricultural development. These include the creation of
the Nigerian Agricultural Bank, the launching of an accelerated food produc-
tion program,. larger and better organized projects for replanting/planting of
tree crops and integrated agricultural development projects in different
parts of the country. At the request of the Government, the Bank has actively
assisted in the preparation of many of these projects. The Bank economic
mission in 1973 made an overall survey of the potential and prospects for
food production. Agriculture and rural development generally are of crucial
importance to Nigeria's long-term growth, and the Bank plans to continue
assisting Nigeria in preparing and implementing projects in this area.
25.       Oil palm grows throughout southern Nigeria but the center of palm
oil production is the three eastern states. Approximately 90 percent of
production is from semi-wild palm groves operated by smallholders. These
groves cover about 2.5 million ha and produce around 2.5 tons of fresh
fruit bunches (ffb) per ha which yield about 200 to 225 kg of palm oil and
around 135 kg of kernels. Total Nigerian production is estimated at about
550,000 tons of oil and 300,000 tons of kernels. Exports of palm oil,
which were valued at N22 million in 1966, are now being displaced by domes-
tic demand. Palm oil is widely used in direct domestic consumption by
millions of Nigerians with annual per capita consumption estimated to be
around 8 kg. Demand projections indicate that domestic consumption could
reach 825,000 tons by 1985 and thus require production of an additional
275,000 tons per annum by that time if Nigeria is to avoid importing palm
oil.  About 125,000 ha of new plantings of high yielding oil palm would be
needed to meet the projected shortfall. The three oil palm projects in
Western, Mid-Western, and East-Central States presently before you would
produce about 100,000 tons of palm oil when at full maturity in 1990.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       A Report entitled "Appraisal of Smallholder Oil Palm Project -
East Central State, Nigeria: dated March __, 1975 (495a-UNI) is being
distributed separately. A loan and project summary is attached as Annex III.
27.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in November
1972 and subsequently prepared by a Bank mission in March 1973. The project
was appraised in November/December 1973. Negotiations were conducted in
Washington in October 1974. The Nigerian delegation was led by Mr. T. P.
Enodien, Principal Assistant Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance. The
delay in submitting the project for your consideration is largely due to the
delay in the approval of the draft loan documents by the Federal and State
Government.
Project Description
28.       The project area covers some 3,600 Ian situated in the former
Owerri and Umuahia provinces and the project is estimated to involve about
8,000 smallholders; with an average family size of 6-7 persor.s, some 52,000
persons would benefit.



29.       The proposed loan would assist Nigeria's East-Central State
Government to finance the planting of about 16,000 ha of smallholdings as
Phase I of a program ultimately scheduled to plant 32,000 ha of smallholder
oil palm during the period 1975 through 1986.
30.       The project would be carried out over a nine-year period (1975
through 1983) and would involve:
(a) establishing a Smallholder Management Unit (SMU)
within the Ministry of Agricultural Extension (MAE)
to implement the planting program;
(b) replanting 16,000 ha of smallholder wild palm
groves;
(c)  improving about 571 km of earth roads to facili-
tate all-weather collection of fresh fruit bunches
(ffb) from smallholders;
(d) operating a grant/credit scheme for smallholders;
(e) training staff and farmers at selected institu-
tions and through in-service courses;
(f) constructing one palm oil mill and extending
another to process ffb produced by project small-
holdings; and
(g) establishing a ffb collection system to be
operated by a subsidiary company of ADA for small-
holder production.
Project Execution
31.       A summary showing the expected scheduling of project planting is
as follows:
1976     1977      1978     1979     1980     Total
(in hectares)
Smallholder     2,000    3,000    3,000    4,000    4,000     16,000
32.       The smallholder program would be implemented by a Smallholder
Management Unit (SMU). SMU would have its headquarters at Umuahia, and
regional units in Umuahia, Owerri, and Aba. SMU would have a high degree
of financial and administrative autonomy and would report to the MAE. A
Steering Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MAE and comprising
representatives of relevant Government agencies and the Smallholders would
be responsible for determining SMU policy and approving development operations,
programs and budgets.



- 12
33.       SMU would be staffed with personnel either seconded from MAE or
recruited elsewhere in Nigeria. However, international recruitment may be
necessary for certain senior managerial posts in the absence of suitably
qualified Nigerian staff.
34.       Producer prices for palm oil destined for the export market have
been maintained well below world prices since the Second World War, and
Marketing Board surpluses generated in this way have been used in other
sectors of the economy. Consequently, until the very recent disappearance
of palm oil surplus to domestic needs there has been very little incentive
for farmers to plant any high-yielding improved oil palms and, the industry
has stagnated, if not declined. In the early 1960s an oil palm rehabilitation
scheme was introduced in the Eastern Region (now East-Central, Rivers, and
South-Eastern States) under which the problem of incentives was overcome by
providing smallholders with grants consisting of cash payments, planting
material and other farm inputs for new planting/replanting oil palm. Under
the project, grants in kind as well as credit in cash would be provided to
farmers. Although oil palm prices are now much higher, the Federal Government
believes it is necessary to continue to provide producers with special incen-
tives as grants, in order to induce them to participate in planting/replanting
programs, especially as oil palms take nearly four years to come into bearing
and produce revenue.
35.       The smallholder grant/credit scheme would be restricted to a
minimum of 1 ha per farmer (the smallest unit that is considered practical
to administer under the project) and a maximum of 10 ha per farmer, which
is the maximum that an extended family could maintain without hiring labor.
Of the total grant/credit package offered under the project, almost two-
thirds would be given as grant and the balance as loan. The grant/credit
would cover over 80 percent of estimated total establishment costs, the
remainder being provided by smallholders in the form of labor and hand
tools.
36.       The total cost of clearing, planting and maintaining oil palms
until they come into production four years later are estimated in constant
1974 terms at about N320/ha. SMU would distribute:
(a) as a grant in kind: palm seedlings, cover crop
seeds, wire netting, fertilizer and chemicals to
a value of about N170 ha, and
(b) as credit, in cash: N100/ha to cover labor costs
during establishment. The loan would be at 9 1/2
percent per annum and have a term of 13 years in-
cluding 7 years of grace during which interest
would be capitalized.
The smallholder would contribute the balance of about N50/ha in the form
of his family's labor and hand tools.



- 13 -
37.       Participating smallholders would be required to be members of a
registered cooperative society. The Federal Government with the assistance
of FAO is instituting a major program for the development of farmers coop-
eratives. In view of this there should be no problem in finding sufficient
numbers of farmers willing to participate in the project and who are mem-
bers of registered cooperatives. The cooperative societies would be used
as the media for chanelling credit to and receiving credit repayments from
farmers. Additionally, the societies would (a) guarantee loans made to
their members and (b) represent smallholders' interests on various project
committees including the SMU Steering Committee, the Planting Authorization
Committee and the Price Policy Committee.
38.       SMU staff would appraise applicants for technical suitability
and would assess their creditworthiness after consultation with the coop-
erative society concerned. All applications would be reviewed and approved
by a Planting Authorization Committee (PAC) comprising SMU's General Manager
as Chairman, the Controller of Field Operations, the Controller of Finance
and a representative of the cooperative societies as members.
39.       Each successful applicant would complete and sign a tripartite
subloan agreement in a form and with terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, setting out the amount, terms, conditions and schedule of loan
repayments and including an undertaking by the smallholder to sell his
fresh fruit bunches to the central processing mill. Monthly credit repay-
ments would be calculated on the basis of a fixed amount per ha to be de-
ducted from the proceeds of each farmers' sale to the mill.
40.       At full development production is estimated to reach 160,000 tons
of ffb, about 75 percent of which is expected to come from the eastern and
the rest from the western part of the project area. The project would pro-
vide for the processing of ffb by constructing a 30-ton per hour mill in
the eastern part of the project area, and by installing an additional 10-ton
line of equipment in a mill that the Agricultural Development Authority (ADA)
is to build in the western part to cater for production from its planned
estates. ADA which is charged with the responsibility for the supervision of
all revenue earning agricultural development projects in the East-Central
State would be responsible for the establishment and operation of the oil
mills and the ffb collection system. It would be a condition of loan dis-
bursement in investment in the mill and fruit collection system that confirma-
tion had been received from SMU and the Tree Crop Section of MEU that ADA's
subsidiary mill development proposals satisfy project requirements. To carry
out these tasks ADA would form a subsidiary company. It would be a condition
of effectiveness that the subsidiary company had been formed with a management
structure satisfactory to the Bank.
41.       The Tree Crop Section in the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU)
of the Federal Department of Agriculture to be financed under the Mid-Western
State Nucleus Estate/Smallholders Oil Palm Project would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluating the project.



- 14 -
Project Costs
42.       Project costs over the nine-year development period (1975-1983)
are estimated at US$37.5 million, of which the foreign exchange component
would be US$11.6 million. Details of project costs are given in Annex III.
Project costs include physical contingencies of 12 percent of the cost of
civil works for the oil mills and 5 percent of all other costs. Price con-
tingencies, calculated over base costs and physical contingencies, allow for:
compounded increase in the cost of (a) civil works, buildings, and houses,
of 18 percent in 1974, 15 percent in 1975, 12 percent annually thereafter;
(b) vehicles, office and mill equipment, and non-labor farm inputs of 14
percent in 1974, 11 percent in 1975, and 7-1/2 percent annually thereafter;
and (c) other items -- labor, salaries, operating costs, consultancy ser-
vices and training -- of 7 percent annually.    Contingencies amount to
US$16.1 million equivalent to 75 percent of base costs or 43 percent of
total project costs. It is recommended that the Bank finance 50 percent of
total project costs which would be equivalent to the entire foreign exchange
costs (US$11.6 million) and about US$7.4 million of local costs (see following
paragraph). The loan would be for a period of 20 years, including a five-
year grace period for repayment of principal. The Bank loan would be onlent
to the State Government (US$12.2 million) and the completion of a subsidiary
loan agreement for this purpose on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The remaining project costs
vould be financed by the State Government (US$16.5 million) and Smallholders
(US$2.0 million). A summary of the proposed financing plan, including
contingencies, for the project is as follows:
Summary of Financing Plan
Total      IBRD       State Government      Farmer
(US$ Million)
Smallholder Program
Field Establishment      12.9       8.2               2.7             2.0
SMU                      11.0       4.0               7.0              -
ADA Program                13.6        6.8              6.8
Total                37.5       19.0              16.5             2.0
Percentage            100         50                45               5
43.       The proposed financing of some local currency expenditures under
this loan derives from the understanding reached with the Nigerian Government
in 1973 that under the circulmstances then prevailing, it would be appropriate
for the Bank to finance up to 50 percent of the cost of agricultural projects.
However, as explained in paragraph 16 above, new cost-sharing arrangements
adapted to Nigeria's new economic and financial circumstances are now under
discussion with the Nigerian Government and future loans are not expected to
incorporate provision for local expenditure financing.



- 15 -
44.       ECS would onlend part of the Bank loan and make its own contribu-
tion totalling US$13.6 million, to ADA's subsidiary at a rate not lower than
that paid by the Borrower for a period of 20 years including a nine-year
grace period for repayment of principal. The State Government would use the
remainder of the Bank loan and its own contribution to finance SMU (US$11.0
million), grants (US$6.9 million), and credits (US$4.0 million). Credits
made to smallholders would be channelled through the cooperatives, which in
consideration for their guaranteeing smallholders' loans would receive an
interest spread of 2 percent. Sub-loans to cooperatives would be for a term
of 13 years including a seven-year grace period at an interest rate of 7-1/2
percent. Credit to smallholders would be for a term of 13 years including a
seven-year grace period at an interest rate of 9-1/2 percent. From its own
funds the State Government would make an equity contribution to ADA's sub-
sidiary company (not part of project costs) estimated at US$1.1 million, to
cover working capital in the development period.
Markets
45.       Historical trends and the projected growth of supply and demand
for palm oil in Nigeria indicate that by 1985, and without the introduction
of an oil palm development program, there would be a shortfall of around
275,000 tons of palm oil required for domestic consumption. The proposed
project is aimed at reducing this shortfall and project produced oil should
find a ready market within Nigeria. Retroactive financing of US$100,000 is
propoied to cover the cost of the establishment of nurseries and appointment
of key personnel with effect from November 1, 1974.
46.       The East-Central State Marketing Board is authorized, under cur-
rent legislation, to purchase all palm oil and kernels offered for sale.
As the Marketing Board functioned in the past as much as a taxation mechan-
ism as a price stabilization agency it has jealously guarded its rights to
purchase palm oil surplus to domestic needs. In particular it has tended
to treat the production from oil palm estates as being in the latter cate-
gory. In recent years, however, it has permitted estate companies to sell
oil on the domestic market although it would appear to retain the power to
purchase their oil. Given this situation an assurance was obtained during
negotiations that ADA's subsidiary would be permitted to sell its palm oil
freely on the domestic market in order to ensure that ADA's subsidiary and
the smallholders would receive the full market value of their production.
Procurement
47.       Vehicles, road-making equipment, fertilizers, insecticides, poly-
bags, tools, and wire netting valued at about US$4.5 million would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines except contracts of less than US$25,000. The oil mills--civil
works and equipment--valued at about US$5.6 million would be procur ed under
a single responsibility contract through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for buildings, office equipment, and some road construction (bridges)



- 16 -
valued at about US$0.6 imillion are not suitable for international competitive
bidding because of their size and location. Contracts for buildings and
bridges would be procured through competitive bidding, advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts under US$25,000 and for office equipment would be procured after
inviting quotations from at least three suppliers. Road construction valued
at US$0.4 million would be done by force account. A major part of project
costs valued at about US$10.3 million would be for smallholder labor, salaries,
training and the operating expenses of SMU; none of which would be suitable
for any form of competitive bidding. The services of expatriate staff and
consultants would be obtained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the
applicable import duties, whichever is lower, when comparing bids with those
of foreign manufacturers. A 7.5% preference for domestic civil works con-
tractors would apply.
Disbursement
.48.       The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$19.0 million) would be disbursed
over nine years (1975-1983) and would be expended against the following
categories:
(a) 75 percent of the cost of grants and credits
to smallholders, totalling US$5.0 million;
(b) 35 percent of SMU's costs totalling US$2.6
million;
(c)  50 percent of the costs of ADA's subsidiary
company's investment in palm oil mills and
fruit collection totalling US$3.2 million; and
(d) an unallocated amount of US$8.2 million to
cover physical and price contingencies.
Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documentation, con-
Itracts and certified records of expenditure.
-Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
49.       The economic rate of return from investment in the project is
,estimated at 19.7 percent.
;50.      The project's principal direct benefit would be the incremental
increase in palm oil and kernel production estimated at about 35,200 tons
and 8,000 tons respectively, annually at maturity in 1988 and thereafter.
The gross return (in constant 1974 terms) from 2 ha would start at N54.6
.in the first year of production (Year 4), rising to N278.0 during the farmer's
loan repayment period (Years 7-12) and thereafter would average about N350.0
in maturity.  These returns compare favorably with those obtainable from



- 17 -
alternative tree or food crops, even where improved management and planting
material are used. After establishment a 2-ha planting would require between
50 and 70 mandays a year for maintenance and harvesting, and gross returns
per manday would rise rapidly from N1.0 in the year of first production
(Year 4) to an average of N4.2 during Years 7-12 of loan repayment and N5.8
thereafter. Based on an average holding of 2 ha, 8,000 farmers would benefit
and, assuming an average family size of 6-7, some 52,000 people in all would
benefit from the project. The project would generate some 12,500 man years
of employment during the development period. Some of the more important sec-
ondary benefits that would accrue from the project are (a) it would demon-
strate the feasibility of a well supervised agricultural credit scheme;
(b) it would form and strengthen an agricultural extension service which
would be able to handle further phases of the oil palm program or use its
experience for diversification into other crops; (c) the cooperative move-
ment would be strengthened; (d) the institutional framework established
under the project should ultimately facilitate the provision of credit not
only for oil palm planting but also for other crops grown by participating
farmers and their neighbors; (e) the improvement roads under the project
would benefit both participants and the farming community in general and
induce such secondary effects as a greater volume of public transportation,
easier access for farm products to market, greater availability of goods
and services to the project area and a lowering of transport costs.
Risks
51.       Any agricultural project dealing mainly with smallholders, the
success of which largely depends on adequate rainfall as well as the timely
contact of a number of husbandry operations, involves risks. However, it
is believed that the project would minimize such risks through the provision
of competent management and intensive field supervision. No serious ecolo-
gical risks are envisaged though the possibility would be closely monitored
and the necessary corrective actions taken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the East-
Central State of Nigeria, the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 6 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of
a Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
53.       Conditions of effectiveness of loan would be that:
(a) subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank had been
signed between FMG and the State Government, and the State
Government and ADA's subsidiary;



- 18
(b) the State Government had established and funded a project
account;
(c) SMU had been established and its senior management positions
filled;
(d) ADA's subsidiary has been established
and are reflected in Section 7.01 of Article VII of the Loan Agreement.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



Page 1 o 3 psges
COUNTRY DATA - NIGERIA
AREA                                             POPULATION                                 DENSITY
921 7-,   knz2                                     69.52  million (mid-1972)
215 Per knZof arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
Ni   ria               fPakistan    rhana       Neolcom
1960         1970            1970         1970        1970
ONP PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) /2 130 /a                                                    130/a        300 /a      750 
DEMOGRAPHIC
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                          53-57 /b           50 /c           51 /cd       67 /c        . L5 /
Crude death rate (par thousand)                                             25 7r           18    d      18            9/i
Infant mortality rate (par thousand live births)                                                                     61 /a
Life exp.etancy at birth (years)                            37              LQ /c           L9           47 /c       65 Z.
Oross reproduotion rate  2*                                                 3.3             3.7 Zc      32           3 1
PoPulation growth rate -                                    2ub  2           5                 i/                   3
Population growth rain - urban                              15                              32 5I. 2                   S 31 5
Age structure (peronn)
0-1lh       p3/n                                                         1.5        /    41           L7          16
15-6h                                                     55             53 5l 52 /                    9          S07!
65 and ovnr                                                27;W            277             3    /                   5LY
Agr dependency ratio /h                                    0.87;          09              0.9          1.0         1 .0 7
Ecoromic dependen-y rtio /I                                i   7r          1.3             1.6          1L          2.0
Urban population as percent of total                        15 / in         23 /L1           28 lk       32 /4       60 /n
Family pianoing, N. of ao.aptors cumsulative (thus.)                                                     11
No. of users (% Of married meon)                                                         2 /J
EMPLOWIENT
Total labor for.. (thousands)                           18,300 /n1      22,500 /p       18,000 /n     3,500 /p    13,000
Percentags erploysd in egrioulture                        71 r            67              58 77        55 Zi       LO
Poroentags unenployed                                                                       2 75       .
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percent of national itcoos received by highest 5%                                                                     36 Z
Per.ost of national inco  .. received by highest 20%                                                                  6L /.
Percaot of national inCome received by lowest 20%                                                                     L 755
Percent of national incomo receivod by lowest 40%                                                                    11
DISTRIbUTION OF LAND OEERSHIP
S owned by top 10% of owners                                .               ..
% owned by smallest 10% of owners
HEALTH AND NUWUTION
Population par phy`ician                                52,000 /n        20,530 /t       3,800 D      12,950 /t    1,5O
Population par noosing person                            6,1hO  ab       L220 /t         7,L50 /      1,070 /t     1,570
Population par hospital bed                              1,860 7  u      1,850           1,660          7 760        930
Par o.pita calorie supply ma S of requirements /t          103 /ao          97              99           92          110
Per capita protsin supply, total (grass per day)/&          66 Ian          60              59           56          65
Of which, animel and pulse                                17 lao          16La            1L /d        10 /         28
Death rats 1-L years /7                                                                                               11
EDUCATION
AdJusted /8 primary school enrollmeont ratio                37              31              La, /4x       89        10L
Adjusted Zsscondary school enrollment ratio                  3               h              16 n          5           23
Years of lihooling provided, first and second level         1L      1                      10  aa       15          12
Voostional enrollment as % of men. school enrollment         5               8               1           23           21
Adult literacy rats %
N03SINO
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                    3.0 /a.                                                   2.2 /on
Peros.t of occupied units without piped water                                                                        61 ZLi
Ancess to sleotricity (as % of total population)            81 /ac    .d                                 17          59 a
Porcent of tural population connected to electricity
CONSUI PTION
Radio renelvers par 1000 population                          h              27 Li           it           88 65      301 L
Possenger cars npr 1000 population                         0.7               2 /             2 /          h           28 L
Electric powsr conaumption (kth p. c.)                      11              37             13L a        368 L        662 La
Newsprint non,unption p.c. kg par year                    0o1              0.3             0.3    J     O.h         1. 8/i
Notes: Figurs refer either to the latest perioda or to            acnount of environmental temperature, body weights,and
the lotest yere. Latest periods refer In principle to             dietribotion by ge g d sx Of national populatiosa
the y.aro 1956-60 or 1966-70 the ictiet years In prin-       /6  Protein standxrdm (raqufreemote) for all esantris as emetb-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                           lished by USDA Esonomie Researoh Service provide for a minim
/1 The Per Cepito GNP estimate Ia at market prices for            allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 gream of
yours other then 1960,calculated by the bane ronveraion       animal and pulee protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
technique oa the 1972 World Rank Atlas.                       protein.  Thees tandard   are somewhat Iowcr than those of 75
/2 Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive          gra, of total protein ad 23 grass of aimal protein ae an
oge.                                                          average for ths world, proposed by, FAG in the Third World Food
/4  Population growth retes are for the decodes ending in         S"yey.
1960 and 1970.                                            /7 Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of childrmn
/4  Ratio of population ander 15 and 65 and over to popula-        ages 1 through 4 nay be used *s a first appromiAtioo index of
tion of ages 15-6L for age dependency ratio and to labor      mnlnutrition.
force of ages 15-64 for econonic dependency ratio.         /8  Percentage enolled of norresponding population of anhool aga
Li FAO referanos standards represant physiological re-            au defined for each ooumtry.
quiremeots for normnl activity and health, taking
Is   1972;   /b  1952-53;   /c  1965-70 BEd estimate;  /d  Including Bangledesh;   /e  Registered only;    /f 1973;
7g   1960-72;   /h  1953-63;   /i Definition not aveilable;     a  Estimate;    k Over 5,000 inhabitants, also a feu areas
having urban characteristics but fewer than 5,000 population;   /a  Towns with a population of 5,000 and over;   /a Local-
ities of 2,500 or sore;   In  1963;   /. Including overage students;    /p FAO estimate;    LA  1969;   /  Households;
H    1962;    t Number on the register, not all working in the country;    L   Includes e.-North Canernon;   /v  1971;
o   1966-68;   /4  One through five;   /4  1968;   L   Six through ten; 1      Up to matriculate (10th grede3T    a    196-66;
7-c  1961;   /ed  Perntage of urban dwellings;     Le!. Data refer to housing -nita;   lf 1968-69;     Z.g DLta relate to
electricity generated, include station use and transmission losses;   /gh Figure does not include inports by land;
1i IS years and over;     Lit Inside only.
oneino has been relected on an objective country because its per .apita income, In the early 1970'o, is about twice
Nigeria's projected per capita income, in the aid-1980's at 1971 prices. Aleo, Mexico's present level of development
fs a realistic target for Nigeria though the remainder of this century.
R3  May 2, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973174                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant 1962/63 nrices)
US $ Min.        %                        126/61973/74           1972/73
GNP at,?Iarket Prices        12607           100.0                            8.3                 7-3          9-5
Gross Domestic Investment     2654            21.1                            9.9                -6.0          8.9
Gross jiational Saving         2753           21.8                           -7.8                29.5         25.7
Current Account Balance         -99           -0.7                             .                   .           8
Exports of Goods, NFS         3502            27.8                           13-2                 4-4          8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         2481            19.7                           12.4                -4.0         18.8
OUTPUTr, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970/71
Value Added                          Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US SMln.       % _                    Mln.         %                    US $          %
Agriculture                   3303         U                      16.8        70                    19?           69
Industry                     1690          25                      3.1        13                    545          190
Services                     1895          27                      lo.1       17                    462          161
Unallocated                      ..
Total/Average           6888        100.0                    24.0       100.0                  287         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(Naira Mln.)         % of GDP                  ( Naara Mln.)       / of GDP
1972/73       T9-7-2 97-19      72/2           1972/73      19723 1970/71-1972/73
Current Receipts    2/                 1512.5          19.7         18.4               1067-3        13-9        12.4
Current Expenditurer                   11-2.9         14.5         1                   663.2        8.6          8.1
Current Surplus                         399.6           6.2          3.7                4.            5.3
Capital Expenditures                    552.7           7.2          5.3                 259.2        3.4         2.3
Externa;l Assistance (net)                 29                          .                    29
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are a1located to the sector of their normal occupation.
2/  Inc;ludes capital expenditures for defense.



Page 3 of 3
September
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                       1969         ;970         1971        1972         1973      1973     1974
(Million Naiaoutst&nding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       667.7        984.2       1046.5      1208.5       1512.7    1353.6   2287.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                523.0        710.6        573.0       593.7        509.4     723.0    747.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector               327.1        478.1        592-9       757          853.6     717.7    893.1
(Percentages or index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money    as % of ODP         19.6         18.3         15.0        17.1         18.5
General Price Index (1970 a 100)             87.8        100.0        116.1       119.3        126.5     124.6V/  140:91
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                              .        13.8         16.1         2.8          6.0 o             13.13
Bank credit to Public Sector                     .        35.9        -19.4         0.1          2.7        .       3.4
Bank credit to Private Sector                    .        46.2         24.0        27.6         12.8        .      24.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971-73)
1970     1971      1972    1973                                         US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $)         P          Crude oil                          1975.1    80-3
Cocoa products                     191.8      7.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           1335     1991      2327    3355       Gocoa    products                    81.8     7.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          1311      1858      1947    2219       Gaundzm  t products                  81.7     3.3
Palm products                       140.6     1.6
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       =4      7I7        3SD    1135       Tin                                  28.7     1.2
Interest Payments (net)          -16      - 1       ...      ...      All other commodities               142.1     5.8
Workers' Remittances               -        -         -        -            Total                        2460.0   100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)      447      598       725     471
Net Transfers                     63        3       -23     -53      EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1972
Balance on Current Account   -376     -463         -39     -zTT
US $ M1n
Direct Foreign Investment        251      338       337     140
Net MLT Borrowing                                                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             1038.0
Disbursements                  49       65       11,     '23       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                   35       37        32      43       Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                      128                        -Su
Capital Grants                              -                 -     DEBT SERV-CE RATIO for 1973 i
Other Capital (net)               17       15        15       -                                                   %
Other items n.e.i                17S      260      -121    -598
Increase in Reserves (+)          85      178      - 52    +233       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              2.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
fuel and Related Ma-                                                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
terials
Imports                         31       13        14                   I       d34
of which:   Petroleum           -        -         -       -
Exports                        714     1334      1788    2`00                                        IBED     IMA
of which: Petroleum           7114    1334      1788    2530        Outstanding & Disbursed          303.4    31.C
Undisbursed                      277.      4.1
RATF OF FYCT!ANGE                                                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 581.0       35.1
ThrobuRh D8c. 19. 1971  Since Dec-_20,1971 Since ApDril i974
US $ 1.00 N    NO.71    US$ 1.00 -        NO.6i F1oating Central ratel                                            _
N l.00oo---s $1.40     N 1.00 - us $1.52 US$ 1.00 = NO.62 - N 1.00 = ns ,1.A2
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
I/ Money and ouasi money are taken as period erd'r.g March 1970, March 1971 to March 1974 to match
with GDP which are presented in fiscal year ending Yarch 31.
j Index of Consumer Prices.
3/ Average January - September,
4/ Ratio of Debt Service to Fxports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STLTDS 'F 0A2( GRLOUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BAN  GROUP OIATIONS IN NIGERIA
(As at April 30, 1975)1/
US$ million
Loan or Credit                                                       Aout (      s   nce%t1o }
Number         YeTar     Borrower             Purpose                               U   . ursed
Nine loans and one credit fully disbursed                             281.5   15.5
72           1965      Nigeria              Education                    20.0         3.8
b27           1965      Nigeria              Roads                 1l4.5               2.5
69b            1970     Nigeria              Transport             25.0                3.6
705           1970      Industrial Dev. Bk.  Dev. Fin. Co.        10.0                 3.8
764           1971      Nigeria               Cocoa Dev.           7.2                 3.2
814           1972      Nigeria              Education II          17.3               16.9
838           1972      Nigeria              Roads V               26.3               17.7
8L7           1972      NEPA                 Power                 76.0               43.8
922           1973      NPA                  Ports II              55.0               54.1
929           1973      Nigeria              Education III         54.0               514.0
1045*          19T4      Nigeria              Cocoa II              20.0               20.C
1091*          1975      Nigeria              Livestock             21.0               21.C
1092*          1975      Nigeria              Agric. Dev. Funtua    29.0               29.C
Total of which                            636.8   35.5       273.L
has been repaid                        56.9     .2
Total now outstanding                     579.9
Amount sold of whien      16.5
has been repaid       13.8              2.7
Total now held by
Bank and IDA**                        577.2   35.3
Total undisbursed                         269.3    L.1       273.L
1/ In addition to the above loans and credil s, two loans (1099-UNI for $19.0 million for
Agricultural Developnent (Gusau) and 1103-UNI for $17.5 million for Rice Development)
were signed on April b and 25, 1975, respectively.
* Not yet effective
4 Prior to exchange rate adjustnents
B. STATENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As at April 30, 1975)
Amount in US$ million
Year                                             Type of Business      Loean  Equity   Total
196Lb, 1967, 1970  Arews Textiles Ltd.                 Textile Mfg.           0.9     0.7      1.6
196b         Nigerian Industrial Develop,.ent
Bank, Ltd.                          Dev. Fin. Co.                  l.4     1.4
1973         Funtua Cottonseed Crushing Ltd.     Veg. Oil Crushing      1.6              1.6
197b         Lafiagi Sugar Estates               Sugar                          0.1      0.1
1973         Nigerian Aluminum Extrusion  Ltd.   Aluminum Processing    1.0     0.3      1.3
Total Gross Commitments                                    3.5     2.5     6.0
Less cancellation                                      0.3             0.3
Less sold or repaid                                    1.1     0.3     l.4
Total commitments now held 6y IFC                          2.1     2.3     4.L
Undisbursed                                                 .5     .1       .6



ANNEX II
Page 2 of h
C.   Projects in Execution
Credit 72-UNI, Education Project: US$20.0 million
Credit of March 1, 1965; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Loan 814-UNI, Second Education Project: US$17.3 million
Loan of April 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Loan 929-UNI, Third Education Project: US$54.0 million
Loan of August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The three education projects together provide for construction,
equipping, and rehabilitation of schools and for teacher training in all the
12 states of the Federation. There has been substantial improvement in the
implementation of these projects during the past six months due to the establish-
ment of effective project units at the Federal and State levels. The first
education project (72-UNI) had a late start in implementation, particularly
in the three eastern states which were affected by the civil strife between
1967 and 1970. Execution of project schools in these areas is progressing
satisfactorily now. The implementation of the second education project (814-
UNI) is about 12 months behind schedule. Design of buildings and preparation
for procurement of furniture and equipment are progressing satisfactorily.
The third education project (929-UNI) became effective on January 14, 1975.
Satisfactory progress has been made in the establishment and staffing of
various project units. It is expected that some change in project content
might be suggested by the Borrower in the light of the recently declared
policy for implementation of universal primary education in the country and
the substantial increase in costs of construction and imported equipment.
Loan 427-UNI, Western Road Project: US$14.5 million
Loan of September 26, 1965; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 694-UNI, Transport Rehabilitation: US$25.0 million
Loan of June 26, 1970; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 838-UNI, Fifth Highway Project: US$26.3 million
Loan of June 16, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
There has been a saving of $2.5 million in Loan 427-UNI, out of
which procurement of road machinery and conduct of a photogrammatic survey
would be financed and the balance is likely to be cancelled. Construction
work and procurement under the Transport Rehabilitation Loan (694-UNI) have
proceeded satisfactorily except for procurement of some railway equipment
which has been affected by administrative delays as well as delays in delivery
schedule and to congestion in the port of Lagos. However, deliveries are
now proceeding satisfactorily and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 705-UNI, Nigerian Industrial Development Bank: US$10.0 million
Loan of August 28, 1970; Revised Closing Date: October 31, 1975
While the loan has been fully committed, NIDB has requested can-
cellation of the undisbursed balance and $3.7 million has been cancelled,
leaving about $110,000 in the loan account to reimburse one outstanding
commitment against a letter of credit.
Loan 764-UNI, Western Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million
Loan of June 23, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Loan 1045-UNI, Second Cocoa Project: US$20 million
Loan of October 11, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The first cocoa project (764-UNI) is on schedule and 35,000 acres
of high-yielding cocoa has been planted. Preparation is well in hand for
the planting of the remaining 8,500 acres under the first project, as well
as 21,500 acres under the second project (1045-UNI), during the 1975 season.
While various actions toward effectiveness of the second cocoa loan have
been taken, there has been an unexpected delay in the execution of the sub-
sidiary loan agreement between the Federal Government and the states due to
procedural problems. It is expected that this loan will become effective
within a few weeks.
Loan 847-UNI, Fourth Power Project: US$76.0 million
Loan of June 30, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on the project is satisfactory. The first Kainji extension
is expected to be commissioned in September. With the completion of power
development studies, the Borrower is likely to request re-definition of the
rural electrification component of the project.
Loan 922-UNI, Second Lagos Ports Project: US$55 million
Loan of August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This loan became effective on October 29, 1973 and implementation
of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The contract for civil works
has been awarded and construction is expected to begin in May 1975.
Loan 1091-UNI, Livestock Development Project: US$21.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Satisfactory progress is being made for appointment of Project
Manager and senior officials for project management and the loan is expected
to become effective by June'20, 1975.
Loan 1092-UNI, Funtua Agricultural Development Project: US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Closing Date July 1, 1982
Senior project staff have been appointed and the project is opera-
ti.nal. The loan is expected to become effective by June 20, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1099-UNI, Gusau Agricultural Development Project: US$1900
million Loan of April 4, 1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Senior project staff have been appointed and the project
is operational. The loan is expected to become effective on August 4,
1975.
Loan 1103-UNI Rice Development Project: US$17.5 Million Loan
of April 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 19530
Satisfactory progress is being made for appointment of
Project Manager and other senior staff. The loan is expected to
become effective on August 26, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
.Borrower:            Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:              US$19.0 million
Terms:               Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 8 percent per annum.
-Relending Terms:     Federal Government would onlend to the East-Central
State Government on the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan.
Project Description
The project would be carried out over a nine-year investment
period 1975 through 1983 and would involve: establishing a Smallholder
Management Unit within the Ministry of Agricultural Production and Animal
Husbandry to implement the replanting program; replanting 16,000 ha of
smallholder wild palm groves; improving about 571 Ian of earth roads to
facilitate all-weather collection of fresh fruit bunches from smallholders;
operating a grant/credit scheme for smallholders; training staff and farmers
at selected institutions and through in-service courses; the construction
and operation of the oil palm mills by the Agricultural Development
Authority to process the fruit produced by the project smallholdings;
establishing a fruit collection system to be operated by ADA for smallholder
production.
Summary of Project Costs
US$'000              Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange %
Smallholder Field Establishment     5,319     2,511    7,830        32
SMU Capital Costs                     113        99      212        47
S1U Personnel Costs                 1,387       257    1,644        15
SMU Recurrent Costs                   112        82      194        42
Regional Unit Capital Costs           326       301      627        48
Regional Unit Personnel Costs       3,030       254    3,284         7
Regional Unit Recurrent Costs         202       165      367        45
Road Program                          426       202      628        32
Training                              166       125      291        43
Mill Investment                     3,507     2,257    5,764        39
Fruit Collection Investment           282       301      583        52
Sub-Total                          14,870     6,554   21,424        31
Physical Contingencies                813       368    1,186        31
Price Contingencies                10,306     4,628   14,934        31
Total Project Costs                25,994    11,550   37,544        31



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Financing Plan
IBRD         State       Farmer        Total
-----US$ million----------------
Smallholder Program
Field Establishment      5.0          1.6         1.2           7.8
SM                       2.6          !.6          -            7.2
ADA Program                3.2          3.2          -            6.4
UJnallocated               8.2          7.1         0.8          16.1
Total                     19.0         16.5         2.0          37.5
50%         45%           5%          1 00,7%
Di-shursement Schedule of Bank Loan
Annual         Cumulative
-------US$ million------
FY 75/76               1.0             1.0
FY 77                  1.1             2.1
FY 78                  1.4             3.5
FY 79                  2.5             6.0
FT 80                  3.9             9.9
FY 81                  3.1            13.0
FY 82                  2.1            15.9
FY 83                  2.4            17.5
FY 84                  1.5            19.0
Procurement
Procurement of all items where orders or contracts had a valite Of
more than US$25,000 through international, competitive bidding (ICB), domes-
tically manufactured goods being allowed a 15 percent preference or the
al)lXcable import duties, whichever is lower, and domestic civil works con-
tractors a 7-1/2 percent preference in bid evaluation. Contracts under
USS25,000 and contracts for civil works and office equipment which are not
large enough to attract foreign bidders to be awarded under locally adver-
tised bidding. A large part of project costs wou:Ld be for labor, salaries
training and operating expenses and therefore not suitable for ICB. Re-
mainder of project cost would be for contingencies.
Provision has been made under the project for the engagement of
Consultants for 6 man-months to assist in the establishment of mechanized
acco.unts and design of oil palm mills.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Rate of Return
The economic rate of return from investment in the project is
estimated at 19.7 percent.
Appraisal Report
Report No. 495a-UNI, dated March 28, 1975.



6-45'                           7-00'                          715'                            7-30'
NIGERIA                                                                                 B4 15
EAST CENTRAL STATE                              MILES
Oil Palm     Project                0     5    0     IS   2,    25
_            ~~~~~KILOMETERS  
Project area boundary
*  Proposed mill sites                                                      \   ) 
<3Proposed regional units. 
A    Fruit collection points  'IOJ ;
Existing main roads  /                                                          UMUAHI
30 ~~~Existing  secondary roads              XOEzbrR .. ..\
D  Colabor CAMEROOOWERR-
~7Project roads, paved         ko     p/ y h      /               ),  
-----Projectroads, earth 
RailwaY           i                                                 ^g       2      /   * 
Stag%te \b  kd\0i\1
r O >  N G e R   < 1@   I nze       0 1 w                              < A    
As-                    t '  /9 R I V E R 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ihte  t
ta  Ar,,,) Enugu 5  u a   -5-00'          0    //     <gX     tOb;           t /7
G >/  ofXM7   OC lorJr C AE RON   h, olwrXnz soznon tis np o nl  \   ./ - =/q  tt  .  /   \ . \ .O=bi4=k\
port orrej t   x          iply  ntls>nel nr:cee/see b!Ihe   /   <  / /   | 4  
{jb nd w - L ,, ,,i                                     -oE ord/nndsJfd=R                  9 5//|\\73 



