CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1191 UNI
Loan Agreement
(East-Central State Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 12, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1191 UNI
Loan Agreement
(East-Central State Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 12, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1976, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower and partly
by the East-Central State of Nigeria (hereinafter called the State) and by a company
to be established under the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter called the Company),
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to the State the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the telms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   the words ", the Project Agreement," are added after the words "Loan
Agreement" in Sections 6.06, 10.01 and 10.03:
(b)   the following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"the term Project Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the
Loan Agreement."; and


﻿4
(c)  Article IX is deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the State pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "State Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered into
between the State and the Company pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the State Loan Agreement;
(d)   "State Loan" means the loan made by the State to the Company
pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the Project Agreement;
(e)   "SMU" means Smallholder Management Unit to be established
pursuant to Section 2.09(a) of the Project Agreement and responsible to the
Ministry of Agricultural Extension of the State;
(f)   "Company" means the Company to be established pursuant to Section
2.10(a) of the Project Agreement;
(g)   "ADA" means the East-Central State Agricultural Development
Authority established under the East-Central State Agricultural Development
Authority Edict, 1973, E.C.S.N. Edict No. 13 of 1973;
(h)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
SMU;
(i)   "cooperative society" means a cooperative society registered under
Co-operative Societies Ordinance, Chapter 39, Laws of Nigeria, 1948.
()    "Sub-Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph
6 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement;


﻿5
(k)   "MEU means the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be established
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(1)   "Price Folicy Committee" means the Committee to be constituted
pursuant to Section 2.15 of the Project Agreement;
(m)   "Steering Committee" means the committee to be established pursuant
to Section 2.09(c) of the Project Agreement; and
(n)   "N" means Naira, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million dollars ($19,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of Ole Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿6
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE 1II
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part G of the Project through
its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise every right and recourse
available to it to cause the State to perform, in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take, or cause to be taken, all action including the prompt
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable the State to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to the State under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
State, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part
G of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a monitoring


﻿7
and evaluation unit with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and shall
keep the said unit adequately staffed at all times.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than 12 months from the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed by the Bank, to form the
nucleus of the Tree Crop Section of MEU, employ a team of specialists and (ii)
from time to time, for the carrying out of Part G of the Project, employ consultants,
as needed, 'such consultants and specialists to be acceptable to the Bank and
employed upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the Company can freely sell,
on the domestic market, the palm oil produced under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
(including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of any other institution
performing the functions of a central bank of the Borrower) as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds
and that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will, within the limits of
its constitutional powers, make the foregoing undertaking effective with respect
to liens on assets of any of the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency
of any such political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is unable
within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such undertaking effective,
the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in


﻿8
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(d)   As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets
of the Borrower or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria
or any institution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
performance by the State of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the State Loan Agreement, the performance by
the Company of its obligations under the State Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Company and, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition, of the Company and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the -Bank shall promptly inform each o&her of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the


﻿9
performance by the State of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the State Loan Agreement, or the performance
by the Company of its obligations under the State Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the State Loan
Agreement.
(b)   The Company shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the State Loan Agreement.
(c)   The memorandum and articles of association of the Company shall
have been amended in such a way as to substantially alter the organization, power
or functions of the Company or affect its ability to carry out Parts C and D
of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Any of the events specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower, the State or the Company as the case may
be.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the State have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the State Loan Agreement on behalf
of the State and the Company, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the State, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(d)   The Company has been established in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.10(a) of the Project Agreement.
(e)   The State has established, with adequate funds, the SMU Account
referred to in Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement.
(f)   SMU has been established and the senior management positions thereof
filled in accordance with Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the State, and is legally binding upon
the State in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the State,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the State in accordance
with its terms.
(c)   That the State Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and, executed and delivered on behalf of, the State and the Company,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the State and the Company in accordance
with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date June 11, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿I
11
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Federal Commissioner for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Mosaic House
Tinubu Square
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:
PERMFIN
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s / E. C. Adiele
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Grants and Credits              5,000,000         75%
to Smallholders
II.   SMU:                          2,600,000          35%
Project adminis-
tration and ser-
vices, buildings
and roads (ex-
cluding roads
under Part B(i)
of the Project,
equipment, staff
salaries, opera-
ting expenses and
training
III.  Company:                      3,200,000          50%
Investment in
palm oil mills
and fruit collec-
tion
IV.   Unallocated                   8,200,000
TOTAL        19,000,000


﻿14
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after
November 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000; and (b) under Category III of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement unless the SMU and Tree Crop Section of MEU shall confirm to the
Bank that the designs and specifications for palm oil mills under the Project
substantially meet the over-all production needs of the Project.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be.
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to be carried out in the Umuahia-Owerri-Aba area. The Project
consists of:
Part A:
The planting by smallholders of about 16,000 ha of oil palm.
Part B:
(i)         The upgrading and rehabilitation of about 375 km of paved
roads, including wherever necessary, the filling of pot holes,
clearing of ditches, reshaping shoulders and resurfacing.
(ii)        The improvement of about 570 km of earth roads.
Part C:
The establishment and operation of a system for collection of all fresh fruit
bunches produced for delivery to the mills under the Project.
Part D:
The construction of a palm oil mill of 30 tons per hour capacity and the
operation thereof in the eastern part of the Project area and the equipping
of a palm oil mill with equipment to process 10 tons of fresh fruit bunches
per hour in the western part of the Project area.
Part E:
The provision of grants and credits to smallholders.
Part F:
Training of staff and smallholders.
Part G:
Establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation unit under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the Borrower with a Tree
Crop Section at Benin to inter alia:


﻿16
(i)         carry out the financial and technical monitoring of ongoing
projects and the evaluation of the financial, economic and social
impact thereof;
(ii)        assist in  the planning and preparation of future tree-crop
development programs; and
(iii)       report its findings to the Borrower, the State and other relevant
agencies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
July 1, 1980.                                          340,000
January 1, 1981                                        350,000
July 1, 1981                                           365,000
January 1, 1982                                        380,000
July 1, 1982                                           395,000
January 1, 1983                                        410,000
July 1, 1983                                           430,000
January 1, 1984                                        445,000
July 1, 1984                                           465,000
January 1, 1985                                        480,000
July 1, 1985                                           500,000
January 1, 1986                                        520,000
July 1, 1986                                           540,000
January 1, 1987                                        565,000
July 1, 1987                                           585,000
January 1, 1988                                        610,000
July 1, 1988                                           635,000
January 1, 1989                                        660,000
July 1, 1989                                           685,000
January 1, 1990                                        715,000
July 1, 1990                                           740,000
January 1, 1991                                        770,000
July 1, 1991                                           805,000
January 1, 1992                                        835,000
July 1, 1992                                           870,000
January 1, 1993                                        905,000
July 1, 1993                                           940,000
January 1, 1994                                        975,000
July 1, 1994                                         1,015,000
January 1, 1995                                      1,070,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿18
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                         2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                         7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               8-1/2%


