~I C At I          LOAN NUMBER 2030 PH
Loan Agreement
(Elementary Education Sector Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2030 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          A4L    2           , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarartee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and GuarAntee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Policy Statement" means the Borrower's statement on
policies for elementary education as furnished to the Bank by the
Minister of Education and Culture under his letter dated May .5,
1981 introduced to strengthen elementary education, and includes
policies for sector financing, teacher utilization, pupil intake
and pupil progression;
(b) "Elementary Education Program" means the Borrower's ten
year (1981-1990) development program for elementary education
designed to improve policies as outlined in the Policy Statement,
management and performance;
(c) "sub-project" means a sub-project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and "Account Bank" means
the Central Bank of the Philippines.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule ma'y be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and thereafter
maintained a Special Account in the Account Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of the Special
Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable costs of
goods and services required to carry out the Project and to be
financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance with the
provisions included in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account under Category 6 of the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and deposit in the Special
Account an amount up to the equivalent of $3,000,000. In the
event the amount of such deposit into the Special Account is
less than the equivalent of $3,000,000, the Borrower may from time
to time request the Bank to withdraw from the Loan Account and
make one or more additional deposits into the Special Account, but
in no event shall the amount in the Special Account exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank
shall further withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the
Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under this Agreement, but only to the extent that the
amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such request,
shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000. Except as the Bank


﻿3-
shall otherwise determine, each such deposit for replenishment of
the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the same Categories set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts
as have been justified by the documentation for the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
to the Bank for replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each payment made by the
Borrower out of the Special Account such documents and other
evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that the
payment was made on account of thi reasonable cost of goods or
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible for financing from the Loan Account, or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph
(d) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Bank and, unless otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to
any further deposit in the Special Account by the Bank, deposit
in the Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified;
and
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined, after consulta-
tion with the Borrower, that all further withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be made directly by the Borrower from the Loan
Account under paragraph (a) of this Section, or when the total
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account plus the amount of any
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent
of $97,000,000, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining amount of the Loan for the Project
shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank and shall be made only to the extent that
the Bank shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in support
of the applications for such withdrawal that all payments by the
Borrower out of the Special Account were made on account of the


﻿-4-
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds. of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
-harge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount 'of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and educational practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall: (i) award fellowships under the Project to
appropriately qualified candidates in accordance with selection
criteria and award procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications,


﻿-5-
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regilar intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-6-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank .a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Projert, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) select and implement sub-projects in accordance with
guidelines, criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
including those outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b) furnish to the Bank for its review and comments not less
than three months before the scheduled start of implementation
such sub-project proposals as the Bank may request.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1981 estab-
lish an Instructional Materials Council and an Instructional
Materials Corporation with powers, responsibilities, staff and
resources satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall appoint and thereafter retain suitably quali-
fied staff in adequate numbers at the Ministry of Education and
Culture for the implementation of the Elementary Education Pro-
gram.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall avail of the expertise and
staff of the Educational Development Projects Implementing Task
Force or any other agency of the Ministry of Education and
Culture, to provide assistance in carrying out the Elementary
Education Program under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall consult with the Bank in the
event major changes in the Policy Statement or the Elementary
Education Program are required.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this A,reement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after it date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "government assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the f ore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agenices, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
Ministries or Agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying


﻿-8-
out the Project or any part thereof, including without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Ministries and
Agencies referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement to: (i)
have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above:
(i) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Special Account shall be audited annually by an
independent auditor and, promptly after the audit
and not later than four months after the close of
each fiscal year, the Bank shall be furnished with
certified copies of such audit, together with a
certified copy of the auditor's report, including a
description of the audit procedures, and a separate
auditor's opinion as to whether the proceeds of the


﻿Loan withdrawn from the Special Account were used
to make payments for goods received, or works
or services performed, and that such goods, works
or services were eligible for financing under this
Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the
Project; and
(ii) the Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the
Bank each month certified statements of the Special
Account, and from time to time such other informa-
tion concerning such Special Account as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the works and facili-
ties included in the Project to be operated and maintained
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and educational
policies and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date                    , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 ol the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                               7550-CBP-PH
Manila                              40268-CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ByS
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 54"
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
exp.nditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, materials         35,000,000        100% of foreign
and paper                                     expenditures
for directly
imported items,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-f actory)
for locally
manufactured
items and 65%
of the cost
of items pro-
cured locally
(2) Furniture                    15,000,000        100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
for locally
manufactured
items and 655
of the cost
of items
procured
locally
(3) Consultants'                  9,000,000        100%
services and
fellowships


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Training workshops          13,000,000        65%
(5) Instructional
materials:
(a) printing               10,000,000        100%
(b) development             5,000,000        50%
and distri-
bution
(6) Deposit pursuant             3,000,000
to Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                 10,000,000
TOTAL            100,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 13 -
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Sector Loan Project
The Project is part of the Elementary Education Program and
includes sub-projects for the purposes set forth in the following
Parts:
Part A:   Curriculum Development
Introduction of improved curriculum and teaching techniques.
Part B:   Instructional Materials
Development, printing and distribution of textbooks and
related materials.
Part C:   Staff Development
Training and fellowships for staff.
Part D:   Facilities
Construction of classrooms, warehouses and training centers,
and provision of equipment and furniture.
Part E:   Evaluation and Monitoring
1.   Sector performance monitoring, evaluation of deter-
minants of pupil participation and achievement, and other
studies.
2.   Monitoring provision of teachers.
T  P                           *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1987
through   February 15, 2001                 3,335,000
On August 15, 2001                               3,285,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                               1.45%
bef ore maturity
More than three years but not                          2.90%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                            5.30%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         7.70%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                        8.65%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                               9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977, (hereinafter called the Guidelines) on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For- bidding purposes, equipment and paper shall be grouped to
the extent practicable, in packages, each estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more in such a manner as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿-18-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Philippines if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Philippines equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid f rom group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 19 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and paper that can not be grouped in
accordance with the provisions of Part A.3 of this Schedule, may
be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for furniture may be awarded either to trade
schools in accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, or to other suppliers in accordance with the Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for printing and distribution of instructional
materials may be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's compe-
titive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   Contracts costing less than $25,000 each for miscellaneous
items may be awarded after solicitation of quotations from at
least three independent suppliers in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, provided that aggregate expenditures for
such purchases shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
5.   Reference materials may be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to contracts for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and contracts for paper estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for


﻿-20-
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistant with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines


﻿-21 -
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 5
Guidelines and Criteria
A.   Guidelines for the Allocation of Funds to the Regions
1.   Under the Elementary Education Program investment funds for
region-specific instructional materials, for upgrading of teachers
and for facilities will be allocated in accordance with guidelines
designed to reduce disparities in educational opportunity among
the Regions in the Philippines. Funds will be allocated on the
basis of a population-weighted indicator of regional deficiencies
in elementary education based on the enrollment rate of the 7-12
age group, the cohort survival rate and the average pupil score on
standard achievement tests.
2.   The guidelines and the formula for the allocation of funds
will be subject to review and revision after the first year of use
(1982) and periodically thereafter. The guidelines will be revised
in accordance with changes in regional rankings and reviewed
annually by the Bank.
B.   Criteria for Sub-project Approval
General Criteria
1.   The staff at the Ministry referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement will appraise sub-project requests for staff develop-
ment and facilities, for experimental and research studies (under
the evaluation sub-project) and for the continuing development
of the elementary curriculum, instructional materials and teacher
monitoring scheme on the basis of four general criteria, viz: (a)
relevance to the objectives of the development program; (b)
technical viability of proposed sub-projects; (c) efficiency of
the proposed sub-project; and (d) managerial feasibility. Adher-
ence to the relevance criterion would ensure that sub-projects are
designed to support achievement of one or more sector objectives
and related targets, e.g., equalizing opportunity, improving
efficiency, improving quality, strengthening management and
planning. Technical viability refers to the degree to which
objectives and targets set could be achieved. This criterion would
be applied to assess the suitability of sub-project design. Third,
sub-projects would be evaluated to determine the extent to which
investment would be efficiently utilized. Fourth, the implementa-
tion capacity of the requesting agency would be evaluated to


﻿- 23 -
ensure efficient sub-project implementation. Assistance would be
provided to improve the capabilities of those agencies regularly
involved in elementary education as required.
Specific Criteria
2.   Specific criteria will be applied in preparing and approving
sub-project requests for facilities, staff development, and for
experimental and research components under the evaluation sub-
project.
Facilities
3.   Regional requests for classrooms will be based on systematic
planning information for each district which will include: school
maps; population and enrollment data; the number of available
pupil places per grade; and periodic inventories of the status
of existing facilities. The Borrower's existing construction and
cost standards for classrooms will be adhered to under the
development program along with the following criteria:
(a) requests for additional classrooms will be made as
required to reduce shortages or meet enrollment expan-
sion on the basis of 40-50 pupils per classroom; .
(b) priority will be given to the expansion of existing
schools where population density within about 3 km of
the school and the size and location of the school site
permit; however, where one or more of these criteria
cannot be met, the necessary adjustments will be made;
new schools will be established in communities with a
threshold population of 240 children aged 7-12 (i.e.,
for six classes with 40 pupils each) residing within
about 3 km, where existing schools are housed in rented
facilities or in remote small communities;
(c) preference will be given to the rehabilitation of
existing classrooms where rehabilitation would cost less
than replacement; and
(d) replacements will be undertaken where the existing
schools are severely dilapidated, structurally unsafe
for occupancy, and cannot be repaired economically.
Priority will be given to sub-project requests for districts with
low performance rankings. Requests for special classrooms will


﻿-24-
normally only be considered for complete, multistream schools
where basic classroom requirements have been met and a satis-
factory utilization rate could be achieved.
Provision of Equipment and Furniture
4.   Requests for school equipment and furniture will be appraised
and approved on the basis of need as determined by detailed
inventories conducted on a district by district basis and updated
periodically. Approval will be extended in accordance with invest-
ment guidelines and quality, design and cost standards, set by the
Ministry of Education and Culture. For furniture and equipment for
administrative offices above the school level, approval will be
based on a review of existing inventories in relation to standards
set by the Ministry of Education and Culture.
Staff Development
5.   For the Ministry of Education and Culture, prototype courses
and fellowship fields will be adapted to meet the particular
requirements of trainees. For managers and planners from the
central and regional offices of the Ministry of Education and
Culture the specific content of workshops and fellowship training
will be prepared, justified and approved on the basis of the
revised roles and functions of the trainees. Emphasis will
be given to upgrading technical and general managerial skills
required for meeting the objectives of the development program.
More specific criteria will be applied in the adaptation and
approval of training for teachers. This training will respond to
the needs of the new curriculum, instructional materials and
related teaching techniques, programs and projects aimed at
improving pupil participation and performance. Priority in
justification and approval of proposed training courses will be
given to those aimed at: (i) resolving particular shortcomings in
pupil participation, survival rates and performance (e.g., below
average scores in any of the basic subjects, particular language
difficulties and related repetition or dropout problems); and (ii)
institutionalising regional training capabilities.
Experimental and Research Components
6*   The general criteria for approval will apply to requests for
the support of special programs (i.e., experimental delivery


﻿- 25 -
systems) and for policy-related research. However, relevance will
be assessed on the basis of potential contributions to the
achievement of program objectives through experimental programs.
For reserrch, relevance will be assessed on the basis of potential
contributions to the formulation of sector policies. Cost-
effectiveness and efficiency will be carefully evaluated to ensure
that experimental programs, if successful, could be economically
replicated. Individuals and groups from public and private
agencies will be eligible for conducting experimental programs and
research.  Collaboration between regional offices of the Ministry
of Education and Culture and universities and colleges will be
encouraged.


