Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3103-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE ELECTRIFICACION (INECEL)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
June 30, 1981
This document has a resticted dlsurbton snd may be used by recipients only in the perforance of
their oficn udes. Its cmtents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank snthorbatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official exchange rate is US$1 - SI. 25. There is,
however, a free market rate which has been fluctuating
around US$1 - S/. 30 during the past few months. The
currency equivalents given below are based on the official
exchange rate.
Currency Unit: Sucre (SI.)
Calendar 1980           June 1, 1981
US$1       SI. 25             S/. 25
S/. 1      US$0.04           US$0.04
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW  -  Kilowatt (103 watt)
MW  -  Megawatt (10  kW)6
GWh -  Gigawatt hous (10  kWh)
kV  -  Kilovolt (10  voltsA
MVA -  Megavolt-ampere (10  kVA)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CEPE     -   Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana
(State Petroleum Corporation)
CONADE   -   Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Planning Council)
EEQ      -   Empresa Electrica de Quito S.A.
(Quito Power Company)
EMELEC   -   Empresa Electrica del Ecuador, Inc.
(Electric Company of Ecuador)
IDB      -   Inter-American Development Bank
INE      -   Instituto Nacional de Energia
(National Energy Institute)
INECEL   -   Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion
(Ecuadorian Electrification Institute)
MRNE     -   Ministerio de Recursos Naturales y Energeticos
(Natural and Energy Resources Ministry)
SNI      -   Sistema Nacional Interconectado
(National Interconnected System)
USAID    -   U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion (INECEL)
Guarantor:        Republic of Ecuador
Amount:           US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
at 9.6 percent interest per annum.
Project           The proposed project would consist of:  (a) the construction
Description:    of 230 kV and 138 kV transmission lines and corresponding
conversion substations; (b) training and institutional
development programs for INECEL; (c) engineering services for
the design and supervision of installation of a National Load
Dispatch Center; and (d) consultant services for supervision
of the civil works. The project faces no special technical
risks. It is, however, part of an ambitious power sector
program which requires a major funding effort. To minimize
the risk of program delays because of funding shortfalls, the
Government has agreed under the proposed project to provide
sufficient financing for the overall program.
Estimated Cost:                        Local       Foreign        Total
…------…(US$ million)---------
Transmission lines                    13            34            47
Substations                            5            19            24
Engineering and
Administration                      11             1            12
Consultants' Services
and Studies                          1            5              6
Baseline Costs               30            59             89
Physical contingencies                 3            6              9
Price contingencies                   25           21             46
Total Project Cost           58            86            144
Interest during construction           -           25             25
Financing Requirements       58           111            169
This dacmint bh a reuricted distributiok and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
------(US$ millions)…----
Bank                     -         100         100
INECEL                  58          11          69
58         111         169
Estimated Disbursements:
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
-----(US$ Millions by Bank FY)…
Annual                17       32       29      19          3
Cummulative           17       49       78      97       100
Rate of Return:  13 percent for overall expansion program.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3340(b)-EC dated June 23, 1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE ELECTRIFICACION WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion (INECEL) for the equivalent
of US$100 million to help finance a Power Transmission Project. The loan
would be repayable over 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest
at 9.6 percent per annum. It would be guaranteed by the Republic of Ecuador.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 2373-EC
entitled "Development Problems and Prospects of Ecuador: Special Report"
was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 18, 1979. An economic
mission visited Ecuador in November 1980 and is now preparing an economic
report. This President's Report reflects the main conclusions of the
published economic report and the findings of the recent economic mission.
Annex I summarizes the main social and economic indicators.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the poorest and least
developed Latin American countries. The discovery and subsequent exploitation
of petroleum in the Amazon region, however, initiated a major boom. From
1970 to 1978, Ecuador's economy grew at an average annual rate of close to
8.0 percent. Since then, the rate of growth decreased to 5.8 percent in 1979
and to 4.6 percent in 1980 owing to (i) sagging private investment because of
political uncertainties; and (ii) declining petroleum output.
4.        During 1979 and 1980, private investment stagnated, as businessmen
awaited the outcome of elections--the first in a decade--and, later, the
definition of economic policies to be carried out by the Government which
took office August 10, 1979. These factors contributed to a slowdown of
private investment which only increased at an average annual rate of 4.3
percent during those two years, compared to 19.1 percent per annum in the
previous five years. The decline of economic activity would have been greater
had it not been for a substantial improvement in the terms of trade during the
last three years, as oil prices nearly tripled between 1978 and 1980.
Social Development
5.        Despite the rapid economic growth which led to the present relatively
high per capita income -- US$1,050 in 1979 -- much of the Ecuadorian population
continues to live in poverty and economic and social dualism remains one of
the country's salient features. While the statistical evidence is scanty, it
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part I in Report P-3036-EC of April 23, 1981
for the Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project.



- 2 -
indicates that about 40 percent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural
population live in absolute poverty. Although a sizeable urban middle class
has emerged, income distribution -- even in urban areas -- is skewed. The
latest data available -- a survey undertaken in Quito and Guayaquil in 1977 --
show that in these two cities, about 8 percent of total income went to the
lowest third of the cities' population while about 70 percent went to the
highest third. These two cities account for about 23 percent of the total
population and hence provide an indication of national urban conditions.
Rural income distribution is also very skewed in Ecuador. The growth
of population, which is estimated at 3.3 percent per year, will continue
to strain the ability of the Government to alleviate poverty through the
provision of social services.
6.        Most of the important reasons for Ecuador's skewed distribution of
income are structural and of long standing. The two most significant are:
(i) highly concentrated ownership of good land and other productive resources;
and (ii) unequal access to public services, especially education, health and
technical assistance.
7.        With regard to the ownership of land -- perhaps the single most
important resource in Ecuador -- 60 percent of the economically active rural
population derives its livelihood from only 11 percent of the land. The farms
that this segment of the population occupies are small -- less than 5 hectares
-- and of the poorest quality. Low levels of education, primitive cultivation
techniques, scarce use of technical inputs and limited access to commercial
marketing result in low productivity and incomes. On average, farms over 10
hectares produce anywhere from 1.3 to 2 times more than smaller farms and the
income of many small farmers barely exceeds subsistence levels.
8.        Growth has benefited mainly the urban middle and rural upper classes.
Public expenditures have been concentrated in urban centers. Tentative esti-
mates indicate that during the seventies only about 25 percent of total public
investment has been channeled into rural areas (e.g., for agricultural develop-
ment, education), where 56 percent of the total population and most of the
country's poorest live. These estimates also show that per capita public expen-
ditures were 5.5 times higher in the modern sector of the economy than in the
traditional one.
9.        The benefits of education are unequally distributed.  According
to official statistics, illiteracy in urban areas is around 6 percent versus
around 38 percent in rural areas. Indians, who constitute about one-third of
the population, live primarily in the rural areas, especially in the Sierra
region. While they speak their own languages and have their own cultural
patterns and value systems, the Spanish language and Western culture predomi-
nate in the public schools as well as in local administration and businesses.
Until 1979, illiterates were not allowed to vote.
10.       The Ecuadorian Administration is aware of the need to pursue a
development policy with a strong social component. In rural areas, a strategy
of rapid agricultural growth is now complemented by an emphasis on integrated
rural development. According to the Government's 1980-84 Development Plan,
public outlays for agriculture are programmed to more than double during the
five-year period in real terms over the preceding five years. The organization



- 3 -
of public services for the rural sector is also under revision. These and
related measures are intended to provide the basis for more effective programs
in the rural sector in the years ahead.
Balance of Payments and Fiscal Policies
11.       During 1972-80, imports increased at an average rate of 10.2 per-
cent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were: (i) the
high investment rates achieved during the earlier part of the period and
the related demand for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial
and transport sectors; (ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial
sector; (iii) government imports; and (iv) lately, the growing demand for some
agricultural products. These imports have been stimulated in part by the high
rate of growth of the country, but also by the relative low price of imported
goods as a result of an exchange rate that has remained constant since 1971.
12.       Real exports of goods, on the other hand, increased annually by only
2.2 percent during 1972-80. Export earnings increased mainly because world
prices for Ecuador's exports went up. During 1978 and 1979, especially, the
recovery in world prices of the country's main agricultural exports -- bananas,
coffee and cacao -- contributed to keeping export earnings high. During 1980,
coffee and cacao prices declined, but the price of oil increased by 42.6 per-
cent, adding an estimated US$456.3 million to the foreign earnings of Ecuador.
13.       Owing mainly to these favorable developments in oil prices, the
current account deficit in 1980 was held down to an equivalent of 4.1 percent of
GDP. Moreover, because of a rapid increase in net borrowing, net international
reserves increased by approximately US$248 million in 1980 and towards the end
of that year stood at US$929 million, nearly equal to four months of imports
of merchandise and non-factor services. These high levels of reserves, however,
mask an increasingly serious external problem. Ecuador could begin to encounter
significant import capacity constraints beginning in 1985 if the volume of
exports does not increase, as is discussed in para. 17.
14.       Income gains in the 1970's coupled with a slow growth of the domestic
supply of food resulted in inflationary pressures. Monetary and credit policy,
price controls and heavy imports of food staples helped to curb these pressures.
From mid-1977 to mid-1979, the Government introduced restrictive monetary
policies which resulted in a declining rate of growth of money supply. Net
credit to the private sector from the consolidated banking system followed the
same pattern of deceleration during that period. As a consequence, the annual
rise in consumer prices did not surpass 11 percent in the period 1977-79. In
the last 18 months, however, monetary policies have been less restrictive, and
the rate of growth of both money supply and credit have expanded significantly,
adding to inflationary pressures. Moreover, during 1980 a doubling of the
minimum wage (decreed by Congress) well above the increases in productivity
and consumer prices, contributed to an estimated 15 percent rise in consumer
prices.
15.       Fiscal policies in the last four years have been expansionary.
After the public sector deficit 8.5 percent of GDP in 1977, the Government
imposed budgetary restraints on public investment. These restraints together
with a doubling of world petroleum prices, helped to bring the deficit down



- 4 -
to 2.0 percent of GDP in 1979. In 1980, however, the newly installed Congress
approved a budget higher than that proposed by the Administration and which
increased Central Government expenditures by over 30 percent in real terms,
raising the public sector deficit to an estimated 4.3 percent of GDP.
16.       Since the fiscal deficit was financed by external borrowing,
public external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was about twice that of
1977. Moreover, the terms, maturity and grace periods of the newly contracted
debt hardened as most of it was provided by commercial sources. Consequently,
Ecuador's debt-service ratio increased from 4.5 percent in 1975 to 11.8
percent in 1978. The Government made efforts to soften the accumulated debt
by being more careful in the choice of foreign credits and, at the beginning
of 1979, was able to renegotiate US$454 million -- or about one quarter of
its foreign debt -- contracted with commercial banks on the least advantageous
terms. Pre-payment of these hard-term loans during 1979 raised the debt
service ratio for that year to 29.6 percent. This ratio, excluding the one-
time debt prepayment, would, however, have been only about 10.7 percent --
one of the lowest in the Latin American region.
17.       Ecuador's future must be viewed with some caution.  Even though
the country's foreign earnings have grown at an average rate of 23.8 percent
per annum since 1972 because of rising world prices--especially for petroleum--
the volume of exports has increased by only 2.2 percent per year. More signif-
icantly exports of petroleum, which now account for 54 percent of all exports,
have been decreasing owing to: (i) slowly declining output; and (ii) increased
domestic consumption encouraged by low domestic prices for gasoline and other
petroleum products. Nevertheless, petroleum could still provide the country
with substantial amounts of foreign exchange well into the late eighties if:
(a) oil reserves are increased soon through exploration; and (b) domestic con-
sumption is curbed as a result of the recent steep increases in domestic
prices of petroleum derivatives. The Government has taken some important
steps in these directions, as mentioned in para 21.
Sectoral Developments
18.       Agriculture accounted for 14 percent of GDP in 1980, a decline
from 23 percent in 1972. While the sector has been stagnating since 1974 --
averaging an annual increase of growth of only 1.5 percent between 1974 and
1980 -- it is still the single most important source of employment, absorbing
close to half of the labor force. Agricultural exports also accounted for
26 percent of total exports in 1980, although their importance had declined
from 75 percent of total exports in the early 1970s. Specific constraints to
sector growth include inadequate infrastructure (mostly roads), insufficient
credit availability, world market price fluctuations for main export crops and
limited farm-level technical guidance. Domestic food production grew at only
1.9 percent annually between 1972 and 1978 as compared to the population
increase of 3.3 percent per annum. As a result, food imports have risen
sharply.
19.       The manufacturing sector of Ecuador expanded by 11.2 percent per
year between 1972 and 1980, and at present it accounts for 18.0 percent of
GDP. Linkages between Ecuadorian industry and other sectors of the economy
are weak. Predominantly privately owned, industry has been largely geared to
import-substitution in consumer goods, and has been operating in a strongly



protected environment. This has weakened entrepreneurs' interest in utilizing
the country's natural resources. Moreover, the system of investment incentives
has biased relative prices against labor and hence has induced adoption of
capital intensive modes of production. As part of the Bank's policy dialogue
with the Government, measures to change these policies have been discussed.
In particular, it may be necessary to modify the protection system which
encourages imports, as well as to revise export incentives and interest rate
policies in order to strengthen sectors with more favorable export prospects
and to reduce the incentives for establishing inefficient industries. The
final design and implementation of these policies could have an important
effect on restructuring the industrial sector, and could result in a more
efficient growth pattern.
20.       Petroleum production on a major scale began in Ecuador in 1972.
Increases in international prices since 1973 considerably enhanced the sector's
role in the economy: in 1979 it contributed 15.5 percent to Ecuador's GDP,
and accounted for 49 percent of export earnings and 26 percent of current
Central Government revenues.  Production has averaged about 70 million barrels
per year since 1973. The Government has long been concerned about dwindling
petroleum reserves and in February 1981 announced it would give priority
attention to increased exploration and secondary recovery. Expansion of known
reserves through adequate exploration efforts is essential to permit increased
production but the national petroleum company, CEPE, has been short of funds
because oil export revenues have largely been diverted to uses other than
needed investment in exploration. Furthermore, CEPE's refining capacity has
not fully met local demand of some products and the company's imports of final
products (i.e., gasoline and diesel fuel) at world prices have cost it as much
as US$200 million a year.
21.       During the latter part of the seventies, the amount of petroleum
available for export declined because of rapidly rising domestic consumption.
By 1979, one-third of Ecuador's petroleum was consumed domestically compared
to less than 15 percent in 1973. The growth rate of consumption, which
reached 16 percent, has begun to slow down as a result of lower GDP growth and
recent conservation measures. Specifically, in February 1981, the Government
initiated serious efforts to curb domestic demand by raising consumer prices
across the board for petroleum derivatives. Regular-grade gasoline which had
been selling for US$.19 a gallon since 1972, now retails for US$.60 a gallon.
Other fuels, similarly underpriced until now, have had their prices doubled on
average. These and other energy conservation measures--doubling import taxes
on energy-inefficient vehicles, for example--are expected to reduce the growth
of demand of domestic consumption and curb contraband sales to neighboring
countries. Recently, also, the Government has prepared new draft contracts in
an attempt to renew foreign interest in petroleum exploration. Finally, CEPE
has added marginally to reserves--now estimated at about one billion barrels--
by drilling a few successful wells. These actions are expected to free more
oil for export and to increase Government revenues by an estimated US$240
million per year to be used, in part, for exploration and improvement of
social services. Exploration and conservation have become even more urgent
because of the recent substantial drop in the international price of petroleum.



-6-
Summary and Outlook
22.       During most of the past decade, the Government of Ecuador has
directed the proceeds of petroleum exports to investment projects which
generally corresponded to real needs of the economy and society. It has also
fostered a climate conducive to private investment which, in turn, stimulated
the process of industrialization. The Government's use of incentives however
has largely been inappropriate and ineffective for developing the agricultural
sector and generating employment. Serious distortions have occurred in the
past owing to the very low domestic prices for petroleum derivatives.
23.       The Government, which inherited a host of economic problems, has
taken some corrective measures. The most important of these was the tripling
of domestic gasoline prices and the doubling of prices of other petroleum
products (para.21 above). The Government has also taken steps to bring other
prices more in line with market conditions. In mid-1980 it raised the price
of several agricultural products; in 1981 it increased interest rates--albeit
slightly--and it has been considering lowering export duties on raw cocoa to
encourage its production. These are steps in the right direction and should
encourage exports, agricultural production and domestic savings.
24.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.
To develop this potential fully and efficiently, continued adjustments in the
country's economic policies are needed. The Government is aiming at a 6.5 per-
cent annual GDP growth rate for the 1980-1984 period. In light of current
policies and of the recent drop in the international price of petroleum this
goal seems overambitious. If the Government takes measures along the lines
suggested earlier in this section aimed at (i) further petroleum conservation;
and (ii) vigorous promotion of exports other than petroleum, growth in the
first half of the 1980's might average some 5 percent annually. This will,
however, entail considerable amounts of external borrowing. In order to
reduce the need for borrowing after the mid-1980s and to lay a basis for
resumed accelerated growth of GDP, oil exploration must be intensified in the
very near future. If these efforts are made, Ecuador's creditworthiness will
be considerably enhanced during the second half of this decade. Meanwhile,
in light of its relatively manageable external debt--Ecuador's debt service
ratio is projected to be about 30 percent in 1984--and given the policy
measures already taken by the Government, Ecuador remains creditworthy for
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR I/
25.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. Including the recently approved Puerto
Ila-Chone Rural Development Project, the Bank and IDA have extended 27 loans
and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$459.1 million net of cancellations.
As of April 30, 1981, US$235.8 million of this amount had been disbursed. The
1/   Updated version of Part II in Report P-3036-EC of April 23, 1981 for the
Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project.



- 7 -
IFC has made six loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large textile company and
,   each in a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining company and a pulp and
paper firm. The IFC has also purchased capital shares in COFIEC, a development
finance company. These operations have amounted to US$27.9 million in commit-
ments of which IFC now holds US$22.8 million.
26.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic
and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC operations as of April 30, 1981, as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
27.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 39 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the expan-
sion of the port of Guayaquil.  Lending for power, which accounts for 4 percent
of total Bank lending, has been aimed at improving generation and distribution
facilities in Quito.  The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67,
marked the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending program
away from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other
loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, four DFC loans and one loan
for small-scale enterprise credit to support industrial development, a credit
and a loan for education, one loan each for water supply and urban development
and two technical assistance loans. Bank Group involvement for technical
assistance and in the directly productive and social sectors has grown to the
point where it now accounts for about 57 percent of total Bank and IDA lending.
28.       Turning'to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effectively;
and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor.
In addition to the proposed power transmission project, the Bank is preparing
a third rural development operation which has also been distributed to the
Executive Directors, a fifth development banking operation, second vocational
training and urban projects and a petroleum development project. Most of
these projects would have important institution building aspects and include
technical assistance components.
29.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
has been by far the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans from
IDB to the country as of December 31, 1980 totalled almost US$651 million
equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power, agriculture,
health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the country
have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry 2 percent



- 8 -
interest, a 10 year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It
is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender in the
immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented projects
continuing to account for a large share of its lending program. USAID, which
had lent Ecuador US$103.6 million equivalent through 1972, made no new commit-
ments to the country between 1973 and 1979. In 1980, however, this agency
renewed its operations in the country, concentrating its program in the rural
and urban development sectors and providing about US$30 million in new loans
and grants.
30.       As of December 31, 1979, Ecuador's outstanding public external debt,
including undisbursed, amounted to about US$3.1 billion. Bank Group lending
constituted about 9 percent of this amount and absorbed about 2 percent of
the Government's 1979 external debt service. IDB lending was equivalent to
about 13 percent of Ecuador's debt and USAID accounted for another 3 percent.
Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral debt, by
1985 the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt could reach
17 percent and its share in debt service would climb to around 12 percent.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
31.       Ecuador has large reserves of hydrocarbons, significant hydro-
electric resources and potential geothermal reservoirs. Hydrocarbons and
hydroelectric energy are commercially exploited and meet an estimated three
quarters and 2 percent, respectively, of Ecuador's domestic energy consumption.
Forests and vegetable wastes (charcoal and sugarcane bagasse) are the main
non-commercial sources of energy and supply nearly a fourth of the country's
energy needs.
32.       Sedimentary oil basins extend over an area of about 170,000 km,
equivalent to approximately 60 percent of Ecuador's total area. During the
seventies, because of lagging exploration efforts only limited new petroleum
reserves were found, and the level of proven reserves decreased from 1.6
billion barrels in 1972 to 1.0 billion barrels in 1980. Addition to proven
reserves thus is of the highest priority. The National Development Plan
forecasts a 730-million-barrel increase in reserves over the 1980-84 period,
with 570 million barrels coming from secondary recovery and 160 million from
new fields. Current oil production amounts to about 220,000 barrels/day,
which covers all of the country's requirements (estimated at about 75,000
barrels/day) and leaves a substantial balance for export. Ecuador's reserves
of natural gas are considerable although at present gas accounts for only a
negligible amount of the country's energy needs. The Government is preparing
to study means of using natural gas found at oil fields. Some of this gas
is currently being flared, but a liquification plant to process it will be
completed by 1982.
33.       Ecuador's hydroelectric potential is estimated to be 22,000 MW.
If fully developed, it could provide about 90,000 GWh of firm energy per
year (which if thermally generated would require more than 150 million barrels



of oil per year). It is estimated that about 12,000 MW could be economically
developed. At present, only about 2 percent of this potential has been
realized. The 1980-84 Development Plan has assigned high priority to the
intensified development of hydroelectric resources, and by 1985 the Government
expects that 72 percent of electricity requirements will be provided by hydro
sources, as compared with only about 25 percent today.
Sector Organization
34.       The Ministry of Natural and Energy Resources (MRNE) is the executing
and controlling agency for national energy policy. Under its jurisdiction
are the Ecuadorian Electrification Institute (INECEL), the State Petroleum
Corporation (CEPE), a public sector entity through which the Government
participates in the petroleum industry, and the National Energy Institute
(INE), a research institute created in 1978 which is presently assessing
Ecuador's energy resources, developing energy balances, and evaluating alter-
native energy technologies. INECEL is discussed in paras. 52-53 of this
report.
35.       The present organization of MRNE is satisfactory and results in a
reasonable level of decentralization of decision making, while also generally
ensuring the coordination of the policies implemented by the respective
executing agencies. However, there are some problems. MRNE is relatively
poorly staffed and has experienced high personnel turnover, and has faced
both organizational strains as well as conflicts of authority with CEPE and of
coordination with other agencies. This situation has been improving recently,
and the problems discussed are not expected to affect the proposed project.
36.       CEPE is the majority shareholder of the CEPE-Texaco production consor-
tium (wiich extracts 98 percent of all oil in Ecuador) as well as the owner of
50 percent of the oil pipeline. It also owns and operates Ecuador's largest
refinery. CEPE exports the major part of the country's oil production,
imports deficit products and handles all local distribution and marketing of
petroleum derivatives. Organizational problems have hampered CEPE's effective-
ness but .a recent institutional study recommended improvements, which CEPE's
management is undertaking.
Fuel Prices
37.       The civilian government which was inaugurated in mid-1979 inherited
a domestic price structure for petroleum derivatives that was among the lowest
in the world. Regular gasoline, for example, retailed at only US$0.19 per
gallon and its price had been unchanged for a decade. In 1980 the implicit
subsidy to consumers for petroleum products, as measured by the difference
between domestic and international prices, came close to 8 percent of GDP.
For this purpose, the international price is defined as the ex-refinery price
of comparable products in the Caribbean adjusted for transportation costs.
For fuels used in electricity generation (mainly Bunker C and Diesel), internal
prices averaged 13 percent to 16 percent of world market levels, representing
a hidden subsidy to power consumers exceeding US$100 million per year.



- 10 -
38.       Conscious of the problems caused by these distortions, the Government
took the first corrective steps in 1980 by increasing the price of jet fuel by
about 70 percent, tripling the price of shipping fuel and introducing a new
"high test" gasoline at a price of US$0.73 per gallon. These measures were
followed by a second and far-reaching round of increases in February 1981.
More specifically the Government tripled the price of regular gasoline to
US$0.60 per gallon and also raised significantly the prices of all other
petroleum derivatives (see para 21). These increases have reduced the implicit
subsidy to consumers to about 4 percent of GDP. The measures approved repre-
sent a significant break with Ecuador's traditional policy of subsidizing fuel
consumption and provide a clear signal of the Government's determination to
address the fuel pricing issue. While no additional pricing action is
envisaged for now, the Government has announced its intention to further
adjust petroleum prices in the future.
39.       The recent increases in petroleum prices have brought the price of
fuels used for electricity generation to close to 40 percent of international
levels. During the negotiation of the proposed loan, it was agreed that the
Government would establish a structure and level of prices for fuels that
would further their consumption in a rational and efficient manner (Section
3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). In this regard, the Government has
confirmed to the Bank its intention to bring the price of fuels used in
electricity generation to 50 percent of international levels by 1983-1984.
The Power Sector
40.       Ecuador's 1961 Electricity Law grants the Government, through
INECEL, a monopoly on electricity generation, transmission and distribution,
but empowers it to authorize private operations. At present there is only
one privately owned company: the Electric Company of Ecuador, Inc. (EMELEC),
which operates in Guayaquil under a municipal concession. The other power
companies, once numbering over 100 but now consolidated into 14, are organized
as private corporations, with INECEL as the largest shareholder and the
balance of shares owned mainly by the local municipalities. In a few cases
there are also individual private shareholders, who have small participations.
In addition to these companies, two small power systems are directly operated
by INECEL, and 42 municipalities operate local power installations. INECEL
is also responsible for power sector regulation and supervision. Through
its regulatory powers or as a majority stockholder, INECEL has substantial
control over power company activity in the country. All power companies
are required to submit their capital budgets to INECEL, inform INECEL about
external borrowing plans, allow INECEL to inspect their facilities and audit
their records, and abide by the regulations INECEL's Board approves. Further
consolidation of power companies to permit them economies of scale is planned
and, under the proposed project, the existing companies (excluding EMELEC)
would be integrated into ten regional units by December 1984 (Section 4.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 11 -
Existing Power Facilities
41.       Ecuador's installed power generating capacity as of December 1979
was about 924 MW, of which 700 MW  (or 76 percent of the total) was thermal
capacity; the balance was hydroelectric. About 520 MIW, or 56 percent of the
total installed capacity, are currently interconnected through the 230 kV
Quito-Guayaquil transmission line and the 69/34.5/22 kV Quito-Latacunga-
Riobamba-Akbato subtransmission network. Public utilities (through INECEL,
its subsidiaries, EMELEC and municipalities), account for about 84 percent
of total power supply. Private generation (self-producers, mostly industrial
and agricultural undertakings) accounts for the remaining 16 percent (about
153 MW capacity, of which 141 MW are diesel generators and 12 MW are hydro-
electric plants).
Forecasts of Demand
42.       Between 1970 and 1978, electricity sales increased steadily at an
average annual rate of over 13 percent. They are further expected to increase
from 2,574 Ckh in 1978 to 5,600 GMh in 1985 at an average annual growth rate
of about 11.7 percent, which is consistent with the projected growth of the
economy and of the number of consumers as well as with changes in electricity
tariffs. The structure of electricity consumption is not expected to change
substantially during this period; the share of industrial consumption is
projected to increase from 34 percent to 37 percent but residential and commer-
cial consumption is expected to grow only slightly--to about 31 and 12 percent,
respectively. Distribution losses and power station use are expected to
decrease from 15 percent to 12 percent because of systems improvements. To
assure that such improvements occur, INECEL would engage consultants by
December 31, 1981 to examine the efficiency of the distribution systems of
INECEL's subsidiaries. INECEL would make the study available to the Bank for
comment and carry out, or cause its subsidiaries to implement, the recommen-
dations of the study approved by INECEL and the Bank (Sections 3.02 and 6.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
The 1980-1990 Investment Program
43.       In order to meet energy demand during the coming years, INECEL
and its subsidiaries have prepared generation, transmission and distribution
construction programs for 1980-85. These are based on the short-term optimiza-
tion studies which were recently completed and which cover the period 1978-85.
These short term studies constitute the first part of a three-stage Master
Plan which is being carried out with the assistance of external consultants,
financed through the FY1976 Bank loan for Technical Assistance (S-006-EC).
The 1985-1992 expansion program is being drawn up on the basis of the master
plan's medium-term studies, expected to be completed by early 1982. The
sector's needs in the 1992-2000 period are being examined within the context
of the master plan's long-term studies, which are also progressing satisfac-
torily. To assure that expansion in the power sector does not deviate from
the optimum program defined by these studies, the Government has agreed to
limit such expansion to economically justified projects which would not exceed
the managerial and technical capabilities of INECEL (Section 3.04 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).



- 12 -
44.       Currently, INECEL is constructing the following facilities which
would add 938 MW of generating capacity during the 1980-85 period:
(a) the Paute (Phase A and B) hydroelectric power plant, which is
expected to be commissioned during 1982 (200 MW) and 1983 (300 MW);
(b) the 125 MW Esmeraldas thermal plant to be commissioned during 1981;
(c) the Guayaquil No. 3 (73 MW) oil fired steam generator and the
Quito (60 MW) gas turbines, to be commissioned during 1981; and
(d) about 180 MW of small gas turbines and diesel engine generators, to
be installed by INECEL's subsidiaries during 1980-1982 period while
the interconnected system becomes operational.
45.        INECEL's generation expansion program for the 1986-90 period would
add a further 1,220 MW of generating capacity and includes the installation of
the following hydroelectric power plants: Agoyan (150 MW), to be operational
by 1986; the Phase C expansion of the Paute hydro project (500 MW), to be com-
pleted by 1987; the Daule-Peripa multipurpose scheme (130 MW), to be commis-
sioned by 1988; the Paute-Mazar (140 MW) hydro development, to be com.issioned
by 1989; and the 300 MW Toachi hydroelectric scheme, to be completed by 1990.
46.       To render its power network more efficient, INECEL is moving ahead
with the construction of a National Interconnected System (SNI) which would
link generating facilities with demand centers nationwide. SNI's first major
link was inaugurated in mid-1980 with completion of a transmission line
between Quito and Guayaquil, Ecuador's two largest cities. INECEL is now
constructing the following transmission lines which are expected to be commis-
sioned before the end of 1982: (i) a 366 circuit km - 230 kV line between
Guayaquil and Paute; (ii) a 80 circuit km - 138 kV line from Quito and Ibarra;
(iii) a 308 circuit km - 138 kV line between Santo Domingo and Esmeraldas, and
(iv) a 107 circuit km - 138 kV line from Quevedo-Puerto Viejo. During the
1982-85 period, INECEL would install about 338 circuit kms of 230 kV transmis-
sion lines, 427 circuit kms of 138 kV transmission lines and about 280 MVA
step-up/down transformation capacity at different substations. These three
items would be the major components of the proposed transmission project
recommended in this report. Finally, about 1,300 circuit kms of 69 kV and
34.5 kV subtransmission lines and about 450 MVA additional step-up/down
transformation capacity at different substations would be installed by INECEL
between 1982 and 1986 to connect the isolated systems of its subsidiaries with
the growing SNI.
Bank Group Participation in the Power Sector
47.       The Quito Power Company (EEQ) has been the main beneficiary of the
Bank Group's three loans for Ecuador's power sector. The first two Bank
operations (Loan 137-EC for US$ 5 million in 1956 and Loan 177-EC for US$5
million in 1957) cofinanced the 40 MW Cumbaya hydroelectric project, several
diesel plants and extensions of the distribution systems. These works were
completed by the end of 1961 and have been operating satisfactorily. IDA
Credit 286-EC for US$6.8 million was approved in 1972 and covered part of



- 13 -
the foreign exchange costs of the Third Power Project, which comprised the
30-MW Nayon hydroplant, an 18-MW diesel power station, transmission lines, and
rural electrification. This project has also been completed and its Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 3003, May 30, 1980) has been issued. This
report concluded that the physical objectives of the project were met but that
the institutional objectives were not fully achieved. Of five studies planned,
one and part of another were never done, and only one study (on the rehabil-
itation of the distribution network) had a clear benefit. Furthermore, EEQ's
compliance with financial covenants was not satisfactory. Audit statements
were late; asset revaluation was delayed and collection of charges -- espe-
cially from the Quito municipality -- was a problem. The borrower under the
proposed loan, INECEL, is a different entity but the lessons of the EEQ projects
have been kept in mind in designing this project and particularly its financial
aspects.
48.        The only other financing provided by the Bank to the sector has
been through Loan S-006-EC to the National Preinvestment Fund for, inter alia,
the Master Plan studies referred to in para.43 and the feasibility study of
the Paute-Mazar hydro-development. Both of these are currently under way.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
49.       The project was prepared over an 18-month period by INECEL's own
staff, with the assistance of individual consultants. It was appraised in
November 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "INECEL Power Transmission
Project" (No. 3340b-EC dated June 23, 1981) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary Project information is provided in Annex III. Negotiations took
place in Washington from June 15-19, 1981. The delegation of Ecuador was
headed by INECEL's general manager, Mr. Villarreal, and included representa-
tives of the Finance Ministry and Attorney General's office.
50.       The main objectives of the project are to:
(a)  support the efforts of the Government and INECEL to render the
power sector more efficient by helping to build up the National
Interconnected System (SNI), which links existing and future
generator plants with load centers. Through this process,
Ecuador's dependence on costly thermal generating facilities
would be reduced in favor of more efficient hydro plants
supplying the national power grid; and
(b) improve INECEL's management and staff skills through comprehensive
training programs and assistance from management and training
consultants.



- 14 -
Description of the Project
51.       The project would consist of:
(a) construction of about 338 circuit kilometers of 230 kV trans-
mission lines that would link: (i) the Paute hydroelectric
power plant (currently under construction) to the Totoras
substation, located near the city of Ambato, and (ii) the
cities of Milagro and Machala;
(b) construction of about 427 circuit kilometers of 138 kV trans-
mission lines, which would tie the following centers: (i)
Guayaquil-Santa Elena, (ii) Cuenca-Loja, (iii) Ibarra-Tulcan
and (iv) Totoras-Ambato;
(c) construction of terminal substations and installation of the
corresponding step-down transformers at Machala (60 MVA),
Riobamba (60 MVA), Santa Elena (40 MVA), Posorja (20 MVA),
Tulcan (60 MVA) and Loja (40 MVA) and expansion of the existing
substation at Ibarra;
(d) consultants' services for reviewing the existing training
programs and facilities of INECEL and its subsidiaries as
well as financing of additional specific training facilities,
programs and equipment (average cost US$12,000/month);
(e) consultants' services for a program of institutional development,
which would comprise reviewing organizational, financial, com-
mercial and data processing aspects and procedures and the
purchase of the corresponding computer software (average cost
US$12,000/month);
(f) engineering services for supervision of the construction of the
transmission/substation works included in the project (average cost
US$5,000/month); and
(g) engineering and expert services for the design and supervision
of the installation of a National Load Dispatch Center for the
SNI (average cost US$12,400/month).
The transmission lines, items (a) and (b), would account for about 53
percent of project costs with the substations (item c) absorbing a further
27 percent. The cost of consultants' services in connection with items
(d), (e), (f) and (g) would come to about 7 percent of project costs and
engineering and administration for the overall project would absorb the
remaining 13 percent of project costs.
The Borrower - Ecuadorian Electrification Institute (INECEL)
52.       INECEL, the Borrower under the proposed project, is an autonomous
public sector entity. It is governed by a Board of Directors presided by the
Minister of Natural Resources and Energy. Other board members are the Minister



- 15 -
of Finance, the Minister of Industry, the representative of the National Plan-
ning Council, the Chief of the Joint Command of the Armed Forces, and one
representative from each of the following: INECEL's subsidiaries, the
Association of Electrical Engineers, and the power sector workers. INECEL is
responsible for planning power sector expansion, construction of facilities,
supervising local companies and setting electricity tariffs. Responsibility
for day-to-day operations is delegated to the General Manager, who is assisted
by six operating managers. INECEL is a major shareholder in all of the local
power companies (except for EMELEC), which are organized as private corpora-
tions. Nevertheless, INECEL has seldom taken an active role in the management
of its subsidiaries in the past. Recently, efforts to strengthen its supervi-
sion have begun: meetings between INECEL officials and subsidiary managers
have been held and minimum periodic reporting requirements have been set up.
Under the proposed project, INECEL would present to the Bank, as a condition
of Loan effectiveness, a satisfactory interim program aimed at improving its
supervision and participation in the management of these subsidiaries. INECEL
would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on this program and
then carry it out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 4.07 and 8.01
(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The general institutional study discussed
below would also examine the relationships between INECEL and its subsidiaries
and further improvements in overall coordination may be recommended as a
result of that analysis.
53.       Although INECEL's organizational structure is basically sound, the
company faces management problems. Some of these are caused by lack of
qualified staff, notably in finance, and others by inadequate coordination
between the various departments, which operate with a considerable degree
of autonomy. Furthermore, the number of operating and staff units directly
reporting to the General Manager is high, placing excessive demands on his
time and on his ability to supervise them adequately. To address these
problems, and also to assist INECEL in upgrading its information systems,
evaluating of data processing requirements and consolidating the budgetary
and accounting data, the proposed loan would finance consultant services for
an organization study and for the formulation of a program of institutional
improvements.  Agreement has been reached that the consultants would be
engaged for that purpose no later than December 31, 1981, and that INECEL
would discuss the recommendations of the study with the Bank, and would
implement such recommendations as were mutually agreed upon. Consultants
to improve INECEL's training programs would also be on board by December 31,
1981. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of these and other consultants to be financed under the proposed loan would
be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of draft Loan Agreement). Terms
of reference for both of these studies have been agreed upon by the Bank and
INECEL.
Accounting systems and auditing
54.       The quality of INECEL's financial statements is unsatisfactory,
because of the lack of importance hitherto attached to such information,
department head turnover, outdated recording systems and the lack of competent
staff. Other contributing factors have been the insufficient attention given
to internal auditing, and delays by the Government's Controller General in
conducting audits, which have limited their usefulness (para. 57).



- 16 -
55.       The main problems are that INECEL does not prepare consolidated
financial statements, even though its participation in each of its subsidia-
ries' capital stock ranges from 54 percent to 99 percent. Moreover, fixed
assets are shown at cost, despite legal provisions which require their annual
revaluation every five years, with index-based modifications in intervening
years. Other problems arise from the poor quality of some of the figures and
from the excessive time taken to produce reports.
56.       To address these problems, INECEL would:
(a)  implement measures so that it can submit fully consolidated                C
financial statements to the Bank in 1983, with partial
consolidation for 1981 and 1982 (Section 5.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement);
(b) engage qualified consultants by December 31, 1981 to carry out
a detailed inventory of INECEL's fixed assets and an assess-
ment of their replacement value. INECEL would furnish this
inventory to the Bank for comment and then reflect its results
in its 1982 financial statements. Thereafter, INECEL would revalue
its assets annually in accordance with Ecuadorian legislation,
which is satisfactory (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
INECEL would also design-and set in place recording systems that
would enable it to keep its fixed assets inventory up to date.
(c) until such replacement values have been assessed, reflect in the
financial statements a provisional revaluation of fixed assets
in operation on the basis of inflation indices (Section 5.07(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(d) cause each of its subsidiaries to revalue its fixed assets in the
same manner as INECEL (Section 6.02 of the draft Loan Agreement);
The organization and institutional improvements study (para. 53) would also
address operating problems in the accounting area, particularly with regard to
data processing and staffing.
57.       INECEL's financial statements are presently audited by the Con'roller
General, a specialized Government agency. Because of the Controller General's
lack of staff, the issuance of audited statements has, in the past, been
delayed. For instance, the 1979 audited statements only became available in
January 1981.  Furthermore, the scope of this audit did not meet Bank require-
ments. To correct these deficiencies, INECEL would engage private independent
auditors. Selection of these auditors would be a condition of loan effective-
ness and their contracting would be completed by March 31, 1982 (Sections 5.02
and 8.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       INECEL's subsidiaries are organized as private corporations.  Only
one, EEQ, has private external auditors. The others should be audited by the
Controller General, but this only happens in a limited number of cases. Since
most of the subsidiaries have significant problems in their accounting systems,
major improvement efforts are necessary if consolidated financial statements



- 17 -
are to be produced. Thus, INECEL has agreed that it would prepare a report
and furnish it to the Bank by December 31, 1981 for the larger subsidiaries
and by July 1, 1982 for all others, identifying the accounting problems of
each subsidiary and outlining programs to address them and, also, cause
each of its subsidiaries to engage independent auditors, satisfactory to the
Bank, (Sections 6.01 and 6.02(h) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Finances
59.       In the 1981-85 period, INECEL's consolidated investment requirements
are expected to be very large--equivalent to US$2.2 billion (in current prices)
--so that by 1985 total fixed assets will approximately double their present
value in real terms. To carry out this investment program, a major financing
effort will be needed. This will put to a severe test the intentions of the
Government and of INECEL simultaneously to reduce fuel subsidies significantly,
raise electricity tariffs to adequate levels, and progressively reduce the
sector's dependence on Government contributions. Sources for funding this
effort between 1981 and 1985 are programmed as follows:
Source                           Amount (US$ millions)
Government:
Equity contributions from
Oil royalties                          598
Other equity contributions               252
INECEL net cash generation                 200
External financing                       1,114
Other sources                                17
Total                                  2,181
60.       As of late 1979, average electricity tariffs stood below the real
levels prevailing in the early 1970's, before the major oil price rises. On a
comparative basis, tariffs were lower than in any other Latin American country
with such a high proportion (about 75 percent) of thermal generation. Early
in 1980, a new tariff structure was implemented, which resulted in an average
increase of about 20 percent, and in November 1980 a policy of monthly in-
creases, averaging about 1.3 percent in nominal terms, was introduced. While
representing a significant departure from earlier practice, these measures
were still insufficient. From a financial standpoint, tariffs were still not
providing a reasonable contribution to investment and from an economic view-
point they encouraged excessive use and waste of electricity.
61.       To meet financing requirements, average retail electricity tariffs
will have to increase from the equivalent of about US$0.05/kVh in 1980 to
US$0.146/kVh in 1985. This implies a nominal increase of nearly 200 percent;
however, after adjusting for estimated domestic inflation the real increase
would be less than 50 percent. Since INECEL presently has negative net
internal cash generation, the need for substantial increases was pressing.
Thus, INECEL has agreed to increase its tariffs and, in May 1981, commenced



- 18 -
to implement a policy of monthly increases that would enable it to achieve a
4 percent rate of return in 1982, 8 percent in 1983 and 8.5 percent in 1984
and thereafter, and has agreed that cost increases in excess of those forecast
would be reflected in additional tariff adjustments (Sections 5.05 and 5.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Current law provides that cost increases (fuel,
labor, etc.) of 5 to 10 percent can be automatically added to tariffs, while
changes of more than 10 percent must be approved by INECEL's Board. The
covenanted rates of return are also applicable to the consolidated operation
of INECEL and its subsidiaries (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Periodic reports to be forwarded by INECEL would keep the Bank informed of
continued tariff adjustments. As a complementary financial measure to improve
collections of tariff charges, the Government has agreed to pay (and cause its
public sector agencies to pay) electricity bills promptly (Section 3.05 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). Also, INECEL and its subsidiaries would, by July
1, 1982, institute a system of surcharges for late payments (Section 4.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, INECEL would design and inform the Bank
by September 30, 1981 about a mechanism to allow all of the companies to
achieve the targetted rate of return (through transfer of funds) despite the
different cost structures that result from industrial concentration in urban
areas (Section 4.07(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       To provide additionally required equity funds between 1981 and 1985,
the Government would assign about US$850 million equivalent to the power
sector (Section 2.02 of draft Guarantee Agreement). About 70 percent of these
resources would come from that share of oil royalties which by law are ear-
marked for power sector development. The Government has prepared a financing
proposal for the sector which defines the amounts of additional equity contri-
butions which it would make to the power sector.
63.       The Bank has worked closely with INECEL and with the Government
in developing a suitable financing scheme for the sector's investment program.
In addition to the funds to be provided by the Government and existing loans
to INECEL, between 1981 and 1985 additional disbursements amounting to about
US$900 million are to be obtained from new loans from international lending
agencies, suppliers and commercial banks. This lending level is achievable,
and a substantial part has already been satisfactorily negotiated. In addition,
INECEL has agreed to obtain Bank concurrence before it or any of its subsidia-
ries undertakes major capital expenditures not required for this or other
Bank-financed projects or for other investments in the 1981-84 master plan
(Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, because its subsidiaries
have tended to rely on INECEL alone for financing, under the proposed project
INECEL would study mechanisms to encourage direct long-term borrowing by
subsidiaries. It would submit to the Bank proposals in this regard, along
with its own long-term borrowing strategy, by December 31, 1981, afford the
Bank an opportunity to comment on this program and then carry it out (Section
4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       The covenanted (para 61) rates of return would enable INECEL and
its subsidiaries to make an average contribution of about 9 percent to the
1981-1985 investment program, although INECEL's consolidated contribution is
expected to be 35 percent by 1985. This is reasonable in view of the magnitude
of the works involved. Both INECEL and its subsidiaries would be required,



- 19 -
under the project, to retain and reinvest earnings in power sector development
(Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, within the context of
Lhe master plan referred to in para 43, INECEL's consultants would analyze
the marginal cost of electricity generation. This and other ensuing studies
would provide a basis for future tariff structure revisions. The results of
this study would be provided to the Bank for comment not later than October
31, 1982 and its recommendations for further work would be put into effect in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
65.       The debt-equity ratio is expected to fall in the period considered,
mainly because of the large amount of Government equity contributions fore-
casted. This suggests that, with tariffs approaching reasonable levels, it
may be feasible to finance a larger proportion of INECEL's investment needs
through long-term borrowings, simultaneously reducing the sector's dependence
on Government funds. Debt service coverage is forecasted to be very poor
through 1982, but the risk this implies is lowered because of the assurances
from the Government on the amount of its contributions. Furthermore INECEL
has agreed to obtain the Bank's concurrence before incurring additional
long-term debt, if its internal cash generation is less than 1.5 times its
future maximum annual debt service requirement (Section 5.06 of draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
66.       The total project cost is estimated at US$144 million equivalent,
excluding taxes and import duties. Its foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at US$86 million equivalent, or sixty percent of project costs. Interest
during construction would add an estimated US$25 million in foreign exchange,
bringing total project financing requirements to US$169 million. The proposed
Bank loan of US$100 million would cover 90 percent of the total foreign
financing requirements. This would include US$86 million required for the
direct and indirect foreign costs of the project and about US$14 million to
cover part of the interest on the Bank's loan during construction up to
mid-1984. INECEL would finance US$58 million, corresponding to the local
costs of the project, and US$11 million to cover the balance of the interest
during construction. INECEL is exempt from import duties, and such duties
have been excluded, therefore, from project costs. Retroactive financing of
up to US$1,000,000 is proposed for payment of consultants' fees for training
and institutional development programs as well as design of the Load Dispatch
Center incurred and paid by the Borrower after June 1, 1981 (Schedule 1,
para 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       Cost estimates are based on January 1980 prices for equipment
and materials and on costs for installation and construction obtained from
contracts recently awarded by INECEL and from works recently commissioned.
These estimates were escalated to reflect January 1981 price levels. Physical
contingencies were calculated at a rate of 10 percent of direct costs on all
project components. Price contingencies were calculated using the following
escalation rates: 20 percent for 1981 and 15 percent for 1982 through 1985 for
local currency and 9 percent for 1981, 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent
for 1983 through 1985, respectively, for foreign currency.



- 20 -
Implementation, Procurement and Disbursements
68.       INECEL would be responsible for overall execution of the project.
Its engineering staff, with the assistance of consultants, as needed, will
carry out planning, supervise engineering designs and prepare specifications
for equipment, materials and works. Supervision of project implementation and
construction would be done by INECEL's own staff, assisted by consultants to
be financed under the proposed loan. INECEL's supervision team is competent
and capable of executing the project adequately as demonstrated by the success-
ful completion of another transmission project on schedule in mid-1980. To
assure completion of the final link of the overall power expansion program--the
subtransmission network--INECEL has agreed to cause its subsidiaries to execute
these works on a timely basis in accordance with its own design and specifica-
tion standards, which are satisfactory to the Bank (Section 6.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
69.       Most contracts for the supply of equipment and materials and their
installation (including civil works) to be financed with funds from the
proposed loan would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Draft bidding documents
have already been agreed on with the Bank. Competitive bidding in accordance
with other procedures satisfactory to the Bank, such as limited international
shopping, would be appropriate for a few contracts (such as laboratory and
training equipment, vehicles and computer software and hardware), each not
exceeding US$100,000 and estimated not to exceed US$1,000,000 in total. Most
of the equipment and materials to be procured for the transmission lines and
substations would be imported, as local manufacturers either do not have the
production capability to meet the quantities required (aluminum conductors)
or do not produce the specialized equipment and materials required for the
project. Preference for local manufacturers for bid evaluation purposes has
not been requested by the Government.
70.       The loan would be disbursed over a five-year period against:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported goods
and 85 percent of the expenditures for locally manufactured
materials;
(b) 14 percent of the total expenditures on the contracts for civil
works and for the installation of the corresponding equipment and
materials, representing the estimated indirect foreign exchange
costs of the goods to be provided by the contractors (construction
materials, transport, machinery, equipment, furniture);
(c) 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures for supervision of
project construction, 95 percent of total expenditures for con-
sultants for the training program and 70 percent of total costs
for consultant services for the institutional study and the
Load Dispatch Center; and
(d) interest and other charges during construction on the Bank
loan through mid-1984 up to US$13.8 million.



- 21 -
Project Benefits
71.       The least-cost solution for INECEL's 1980-85 transmission expansion
program was selected following analysis of: (i) a 1979-1990 national elec-
tricity load forecast; (ii) projected regional consumption patterns; and (iii)
comparisons of transmission versus local thermal power generation alternatives.
The recommended transmission alternative, of which the proposed project forms
part, is the optimal solution at discount rates of up to 50 percent, when net
present values of capital and operating/maintenance costs for the different
alternatives are compared. The expansion program would reach 250,000 new
electricity consumers (about 1.5 million people).
72.       Since the proposed project is an integral part of INECEL's 1980-85
investment program, its benefits cannot be singled out. Thus, the economic
rate of return on the overall investment program was computed. This was
estimated as the discount rate which equalizes the present values of the
economic net cost and benefit streams associated with the investment program.
The economic net cost streams include the associated capital investments and
operational and maintenance costs of the generation, transmission, subtrans-
mission, distribution, rural electrification and general investments programs.
The economic net benefit streams were measured by:
(a) forecast revenues from incremental sales of electricity (at
existing tariff levels); and
(b) energy substitution valued at current international fuel prices.
73.       The internal economic rate of return of the expansion program using
current tariff levels (i.e. the recently approved provision for three percent
monthly increases) is about 13 percent, which may be compared against the
opportunity cost of capital in Ecuador, currently estimated at 11 percent.
74.       This return does not include certain important but non-quantifiable
benefits which are expected to result from this project such as an institu-
tionally strengthened INECEL. Nor does it reflect the fact that the prepara-
tion and negotiation of the proposed loan afforded the Bank an excellent
vehicle for an extensive dialogue with the Government on the need for higher
domestic prices for petroleum derivatives. This dialogue would continue
during project execution.
Environmental Aspects
75.       The proposed project does not present major environmental problems.
Transmission line routes are considerably distant from urban centers. Further-
more, substations would be located at urban centers with due regard to environ-
mental considerations and in accordance with urban regulations. INECEL would
compensate property owners as required by the national legislation. Clearing
of rights-of-way would be kept to a minimum and natural drainage patterns are
not expected to be affected.



- 22 -
Project Risks
76.       The project faces no special physical risks.  Nevertheless, to
assure dam safety and constant generation of power at the main Paute site,
INECEL would regularly inspect the dam and related structures and remedy any
deficiencies found (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Insufficient
action on financial matters could result in program and project delays. To
account for this, the Government has assured the necessary financing and
INECEL would agree under the proposed project to meet annual rate of return
targets. The institutional strengthening proposed under the project should
permit INECEL to carry out its expansion program efficiently and without undue
risk of administrative delays. The Government would also agree to facilitate
timely procurement of goods and services for the project and to facilitate
commercial borrowing by INECEL and its subsidiaries to meet short-term financ-
ing needs (Sections 3.06 and 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between INECEL and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
78.       The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for power trans-
mission loans. The main features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements
are referred to in the text of this report and are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be that INECEL: (i)
present to the Bank an interim program satisfactory to the Bank to improve
the direction and supervision of its subsidiaries; and (ii) select private
independent auditors.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 30, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUAWR5-FSOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            283.6       .                        MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      51.7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    ..       390.0   1050.0                    1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    208.3        316.9     654.1                   1324.1                   2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4413.0       6015.0   8081.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4        39.5      44.0                     64.2                     53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      14.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       15.6        21.2       28.5                    34.3                     80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     93.5       123.1     151.0                     94.5                    133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.4        45.4      44.5                     40.7                     30.1
15-64 YRS.                         52.0        50.8      51.9                     55.3                     61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         3.8       3.6                      4.0                      8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.1/c     3.3                      2.4                      1.5
URBAN                              4.8         4.5       4.5                      3.7                      3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.5         43.0      40.3                     31.4                     22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    13.7         10.6       9.6                      8.4                      9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.2       3.0                      2.3                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         9.0      32.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       6.3
FOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         104.0       101.0     100.0                    108.3                    119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   84.0        91.0      92.0                    107.6                    125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        52.0      50.0                     65.8                     92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       26.0        27.0      25.0                     34.0                     39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     22.8        15.7      10.3                      7.6                      3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0         56.2      61.0                    64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          140.0       118.0      66.0                     70.9                     25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        34.0      42.0                     65.7
URBAN                               ..        76.0      84.0                     79.7
RURAL                               ..         7.0      13.0                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        22.4      32.3                     59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      60.0                     75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      13.0                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2664.9      2891.8    1621.5                   1728.2                    973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2280.0      1620.9        ..                   1288.2                    896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            531.4       428.9    507.0                     471.2                    262.3
URBAN                               ..       305.3        ..                    558.0                    191.8
RURAL                               ..      4570.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        19.3        ..                       ..                     18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1/e       5.2       5.3
URBAN                                 -
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5/e        ..
URBAN                              2.17e        ..        ..
RURAL                              2.8;         ..        ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             32.0/e        ..      41.2
URBAN                             78.5te        ..      84.3
KUhRAL                             6 . 6.._e            11.6



- 24-                                                     ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                        Page  2  of  5
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVWRA91S
- NDST RECENT ESTINATE) -
MDST RECENT          -MIDDLE INCOME            HDDLE INCQSE
1960        1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 83.0       100.0    108.0                    101.7                    105.9
MALE                 87.0       103.0    110.0                    103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               79.0        97.0    106.0                    101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        26.0      46.0                    35.3                     66.3
MALE                 13.0        28.0      48.0                    34.9                     73.2
FEMALE               10.0        24.0      43.0                    35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 29.0         11.0      11.0/d                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      36.0                    29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         11.0        14.0      16.0                    15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       67.5/e      68.0      76.6                    80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THIOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.5       7.4                    42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        38.5       282.6        ..                   215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5        24.9      45.0                    89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        41.6      46.3                    62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         4.0       5.6                     3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1442.7      1936.2   2593.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  16.3        19.1      20.8                    22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.4        50.9      51.6                    35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.4        22.2      17.6                    23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.7        32.2      32.1                    31.8                     42.3
MALE                                55.0        52.1      50.4                    49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                              10.6        12.3      13.5                    14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.5       1.5                     1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGREST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    269.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    183.0                    187.6*
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    307.0                    513.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      77.0                   362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0
RURAL                               ..         ..       65.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populatior-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the tndicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c Intercensal growth rate is 3.2% (1962-74); /d 1975; /e 1962.
May, 1981



- 25 -                                                                                    ANN~EX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINtTIONSt OF SOCIAL INDIICATORS
Rotes:  Althrogth the data are dra   froa source. general.ly judged abs  -e  authaitata- end reliabla. it *hald aleo be notd that they eap not ha late-
gantamlloosarabe heane  tf t:Ihe lack at etadndeltd detitione and tonrepts uend by differn.            ontisI-clett  the data.  The date are,noe
rheicee  ue.ta  to deerihe oder. cf , aitude, Iindicet  treds, and taroareacttatt  ea)r dtfftetie   hewsto-                tis
etrir-oraaaffnitces(.  In the refer.... group data tie a_enege  are                    IIpeto  vtghted aithbmat tease. ftr srh indica.totend eh-egIonly nha.
ejortey at the rctr ie  I0.  aro.P hae dlet  Iur that tidilr -r  Star  the  oeaea,re a-at  thgloiuenrsdepatd  or the avatlebtltty ot date
and teoatur.itots.ceuttaocast bteneocceeainnelctioa averegee otonetediretortaenathst.  Thaaeauersgaeece onlyceetnl ttcoeyattngthotetu_cof. :I I:t
on  Idica,to  at e tic.   . emoug cO   rncry andI rs"nvt,gus
LANDp AREA (ahoned  qhp(Preio   a  H..sytie1 ted - tota, other, end rotal1  Popalenion(ort
Total - Tote  surfac  ate -raer  -n  land area aol bln    atr1                                   ihn odrrl)dvdd   by thtea n..p. -lve timbe  ad boepita1 bea
Agniultoral - tEtieta o  agricun_ra  area aend temporarily or parasol                             vial   tpbi  o   rvt   aae   n   yreis    cptladr
tar oraP, p-et-re, worker nod kitchen garden  o  t  lie ftell_o; 197Mdte                      hobilt           b dtntr.rsitteeselemo                    csntl   rfe
t __t _,kt "i_, .byat  eastOttPlaysiotat.  Etenbliskh-t  providbog paj'cioipl ly to.r.-
GNP PER CAPITA (USi) -            _6ptcpita asistese,                                              bytarenpie,  a-da  can  arFonlde. itarl.  hosIbels  hoevr  trd  healt
notated by e-  c--i-bo  osthd as World tetIk Atlas (i977-79 basie); 196D.                        anZ        -'"! d eln  etrsttpRcantt   enaffed by a  _ystiol (hot byta
1970, endy 199ln.aeia   sistn,I oe,cdie   t.   br   te   tptetets
end lgIe  perosu,  atra  tea td hydr-oula   -n attara  ae-ndralbsIcaaloadr urlhanls  n  ceia  edetent
IIciy   itkilogrs  of cot- qIvaen  ParcaI;19              1971, and 1979                    retr.SPeccltand haspitala are incldadonyndnta.
date.                                                                              ndieeionsoeo ineitul tedI   Total.;mbar6t0edmiatro.oo  Iehra
PPPULATION AND1VITAL STATIITICS
dTotolPilat     hdYa  (th-otecda) - Aa of JulY 1; 1960. 1970, nod 1)79                      HOUSING
data.                                                                              koer~~~~~~~~~ti   f-..t  l jAgel tt hfrageud(prostrAoeod-cal.ubnalrrl-
diffeent lfinicora  f uran uraa gy affct cmperebility of dat                          o   barci  aas       badro  lodge   a   rsynth  nldd
natl topia-o   yoradann   hrrnracyadfr   crytene.                                         atelios,  espctiely A  laslfgd        nld  to -paa Iae bt enrutara  end
Frojerci-on. pcrer.e.  tuhcnalr  rtahopra                                                            ..t.e eel   hsc.1aculd cat.,ti,jIP
an   eriit -rel  tonynjectoipoptog                                                  ndfaaltrai       en                   b_tiod
Steiunrv  opnattn-Iasttcnot   poulatonnhre iooganneincePriaryenbai   toal,sal  en  fmal  -  ros  toal,gal  enlfeal
nba  lin  rac  Iaaqalicothr Ont  ae   n   lote  g   tutr   e                             nolen   falagetth   rmr   ee                   Ispronae   traae
terpaetilio f-  unt  etP     prdatantes,ate nY   generaion                           yars b t djitd far lit fere la le h  a-t pgayenate o
sen  level.                                                                                   education r5aqaPtiasatleatfo   er   faaavdpiayIsrcin
els.be  beetteehed                                                                           usually of 12. cc 17 years1                a"i-St ege  tntopdec  noaea  ar -gerol
Pa"oCh.-ttdya  pouaInpef_-akcaee   10   ecrs  ofvctinleno                                                         dn I     drsr lit S of stnadrtl- Vnthnliataaia
totalarea  191, 1970 enId 197  lanah.                                                       inlue  eco-al  idutia,  r  tje  rareechthfpraaitdrc
Pe te.  a  anlYlnrllad- I..dIt.aoe  o  agriclturEleadATINtyoasdpretefecueytanataa
aut; 161,190 al 176  at.                                                        Ptiltaahe rtto    nrhen. nd einda---Toal s-tategitlls  I
taueit a   tutuePe- et              hlIaIlIcyan.nokn-gI(5                                     rmayedsctdr`evl   iiedh   sar   ftahasi   b
64yar)  anP emd(IyasaloerM                 apretgea   i-er  aa                               orsodn   ees
llo;1h. 17,  sal 197   daa                                                             nntdierc rt  (acet  -Lteae  die   abat  esadm ee   ni
Poraatcc uroth lce (errat) -IuIe  - Acoa  grnhcnsc   oalseprerg   of. tota  adul porlea 1                                                     .lnaegd t5ysre anfter
papolnico  191, 190, al 199 daa.                                    elitay veIcpples.            -1        -th    flil               S
poultin  1960,1971  and1679  ata.broeobst tr gt.epal pubicfpr teaett  ofpoat e;eg Inan-
Gros  artlotin  ttn-y_ e5   nubra  duhes.ncnilha  inhcns   eevr   ncatismdi   ea   ie   aildraia  odf&radi
hernoca  rerdcieptu i,fsbepeinspretag-paic  ts-esewe  oefet;dtafr                                                       teet    -er  ma non-. be d-esobl  s
rtttah sueal                                  f y-ya   va fa enIgtn IFb 1970  end 1979.: meacutIes             I bIteIb ..l  fieea..IY:.fC.l     Ib-
aoaen of -1 chl-eaigeg   1-40  ter- Tho y             hsa b Irt-otro   avcstonmece GtIlaltn(e   haadonnin      hwstee                                              ete
h.d. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pa_llatta  den.1pecrl  ta rcding.  gtePra- naa   S  s  osts
fO-I MiT nI   ... ITO                                                                             t.. be Y "daIly  if it appear  at leas  fnurP. time -s fa aaah
Indn c  fto  Pnduy... ret Incite. Pi9h I-7         ..... IrdIoI  a   aiaanul                 Cnm   oalAtednartCta   e  Tlardhed_ onth  rembn 1of
natioal aerag  crdor prc19g781915,17,ad  99dt.Ttl ao   tc   thuad)-daomclyata.eroa    nlle
Pe64   ia  ncro  calrir  le0re                    14o ne Y-emtn)- itmatd  ro                  arn   ocaeduemlydbteordlbgT   Ttaa las  etadengta,et
pe  dy IAalnl  nupld           uate d1stcprdcIo,79on  las                                ta .p""ba; 191,190ed99daa
quantit_.iest utdlo fool-)  p      -calg  an1 er   olerbto.lqt                               Adricult ....re lertn(     - lea  farce . tn farin,.. foetr. hottd   ned-i.
s-aP., tor.,aI.. e   yfObado   bellgrlteefrtr    aoni-                                        f  Isiga percentageof totaltehot fnn;161   90ed 1               979..  .    data
fcsaol  level;0 1961-cl, 1970  en   97dt.                   19707andP 1979 dat.   I
ouceene  u  al cutre               ethli-e bylh PIt       h-A provide fa   elnma.pecetees  of:. toa.slanfelepuatnofllgsrsecvly
alP nnc I   6   rm   ittlcornprdysd2   rn   feie   n                                          90  1970, sod191979 date.  Ths   r   ne   nfn'-atcptn   ae
pus   rtl,t   hihI  rc   hudheaia   rnt.maacn-rfetn   aesnsrruec  th  paprosdSo. arMlong. tin  tren. A.
C erdIe-toeP larPha tha..of 75 A- trace ut tota  .r.cri ed.  27 grci        ftad-,-tsaefontoalsuc
Worl  Pau96rv0; 19701-hd    90ad 1977at.                                                  o   hetoa  lehr frce
Pe Occ uacrteicnRt  Auol .a.. animal, ed-ghulec                                                                               t.rc   upl   fto   e
rived foca nntaela atd pulees lo grace tar day; 1961-61, 1970 and 1977 late.  19009t IIITVInITIO6~~~~~~~~~. f   TI ~ '  I
trire1 Pena Itrivedfrnlt  tabls;  960  190       197D 97dat,M                                  of.  .   _tuhlie..   ,  .:   f.. 
f       tihT6P0VSafTcR-p                                                                                    oup
c _ag   erthuat  lv  hNta                                                                   aaaue  ovry  occ  level,l  (.Ith. Is tan  nc,   :ev_, baI  flh     i
her- of pevyleP (t pa      - Cra,arrul)ec  resoa_   acnse noilsofa
eater       f supl  flcclde  traedufaentr   rutetdbnucnelse                                   fodbe
-1--d-I Y.., b..i.. C-diti..   li-layistad aletva y-dnt Incmegivet g55  er rntaI-duran ed n,rah 
Ireec   sta    o  protecte l. dil hunhone - ntrinat.       sntr   el)n                    tara  relaivet.. yicm   evli   tntidnfoeonprcpt
f..d          - C-P.t.d fl-                             f     IC~td  ota  -Perwo  nf papetr(ubnadaalaast"hccs
oft fI reetrtcv     P1 coculanlune.  t    -ttet  dir t ma  irtud
the  cllctlc aO Ieyral-PaP  I o -  tci outdt-eateent                                                                I o  hcea- De
and nests~ner by naerhovI                       Ietaea  ce  saa  yt p -ve  an                                                    - tcnnml  ac  cIalnt  Ov
qar totoll        IIns    fIcoI-;.tosuc cuelyete.hi   16,  97   .   ,7  f                                                                         and   .  ....cton   Depeun
oe Iana  a   h rn      ouain dale  by tonbac of precticinf phys1
-an   qualiied      b f FAa t medca  d Phftl etRuoiereny level
Iuuata pe  .u.t..Pn.n.PpIafocdiidd  ytohedo pacIr
miteandfehalegtdunuuee   p                hyiaaosea d           -_isauvose.~cj                    "~ (                   I-   ..   If_I,f -l,h.i,.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
ECTIADOR -  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                          Page 4 of 5
Population:           8.068 -(mid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,050 -(1979)
Amount                  Average Annual Increase (X)              Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$                (at constant 1979 prices)                      (at current prices)
Indicator                                    at current prices)             -------------------------
1979 (a)                1960-70   1970-75   1975-R0              1960      1970      1Q79 (b)  1980 (b)
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                               9924                         5.R       11.1        7.0           100.0    1OO.n    IO1.0    0(O.0)
Agriculture                                        1456                        4.0        5.4        1.8             33.3      27.6      17.q      14.1
Industry and Mining                                3476                        7.3       20.7         7.7           l1.3       23.0      33.0      35.0
Services                                           4577                        6.3        8.0        9.1             47.4      49.4      43.6      46.7
Consumption                                          7210                         5.n        9.8        7.5            R4.6      A2.n      90.3      9o.0
Gross investment                                     2901                        18.7       12.2        7.9            14.0      22.5      26.7      77.4
Export of goods and NFS                              2339                         2.7      15.8         2.q            17.2      14.0      26.2      20.1
Imports of goods and NFS                             2534                       10.9       12.6         5.7            15.7      T0.4      32.7      27.5
Cross national savings                               2310                          -          -                        12.9      16.?      1R.9      16.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (x)
(at currenc prices)
1975        1976        1977        1978        1979
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                              100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0
Primary                                                         86.9        85.5        77.5        69.4        71.5
Crude Petroleum                                              62.4         56.7        50.2        36.5        48.1
Other                                                        24.5        28.9         27.3        32.9        23.4
Manufactures                                                    13.1        14.4        22.5        30.6        28.5
Petroleum Derivatives                                         --          --           1.3         6.0         6.8
Processed Cocoa                                               2.8          2.5        14.3        13.6        10.9
Fish and Seafood                                              3.6         4.1          5.6         5.9         5.6
Others                                                        6.7          7.8         1.3         5.1         5.2
NERCHANDISE IMPORTS                                              100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Consumer Goods                                               13.1        11.2         11.1        11.0        10.7
Intermediate Goods                                           43.8        43.7        40.6         38.1        41.6
Capital Goods                                                42.6        42.8         48.0        50.7        47.6
Other                                                         0.5         2.3          0.3         0.2         0.1
PRICES ANn TERMS OF TRADF                                             1975       1976       1977        1978       1979
GDP deflator                                                        71.7       80.7       92.2      100.0      123.1
Exchange rate                                                       25.0       25.0       25.n       25.0       25.0
Export price index                                                  76.7       86.9      102.6      100.0      140.8
Import price index                                                  81.8       84.6       89.5      100.0      118.4
Terms of trade index                                                93.8      102.7      114.6      100.0       118.9
As 7 GDP
(at current prices)
1q75     1979
PUBLIC FINANCE (c)
Current revenue                                                                           11.4      12.0
Current expenditure                                                                        6.6       9.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                                 4.8        2.1
Capital expenditure                                                                         2.5      4.8
Foreign financing                                                                            -        1.7
1960-70   1970-75   1975-RD   190R-85
OTHER INDICATORS
rDp growth rate (7)                                         5.R       11.1        7.0       5.0
nDp per capita growth rate (%)                             2.4        7.5         3.6       1.5
Energy consumption growth rate (1)                          -           -        11.7        6.5
ICOR                                                       0.7        2.7        4.0        9.1
Marginal savings rate                                     -0.4       -0.4        0.4         - -
Import elasticity                                          1.0        1.3        0.R        0.0
(a) Updated 1979 and 1980 figures were received recently and will appear in future President's Reports.
(b) For 1975 and 1980, components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
(c) Central Government only.
June 24, 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX I
ECUADOR  - BALANCF OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                              Page 5 of 5
(million US$ at current prices)
Population         8,068 - (mid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita   US$1,050- (1979)
Actual                                         Projected
1470    1Q75    1976    1977    197R         1979         1980 (a) 198I     1082    19R3    1984
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                                 -130    -252       -34    -378    -742       -625       -616    -761   -1135    -1448   -1382
Exports of goods 6 services                                    25a    1127    1435    1628        1741    2410       2937    3090    3246         3416    4275
Imports of goods & services                                    380    1379    1460    2006    2493    3035           3553    3851    4381        4864    5657
Net transfers                                                     17       32       31       36       44       40         40       45       50        56       63
Current account balance                                         -113    -220        -3    -341    -698    -585         -576    -716   -1085    -1392   -1319
Direct private investment                                         94       95      -20       34       40       50         80      118      131       147      165
MLT loans (net)                                                   26      133      161      506      425      595        709      591    1037       1309    1290
Official                                                         R       51       72       53       77       67        85      194      256       297      295
Private                                                         17       82       R8      453      34R      528       624      397      781      1012      995
Other capital                                                      9      -93       62      -42      267      -25         35       40       50        56       63
Change in reserves  (- - increase)                               -10       85    -2nn    -157        -34      -35      -248       -33    -133      -120    -199
International reserves                                           R8       257      457      613      647      682        929     962    1095        1215    1414
Reserves as sonths of imports                                      3        2        4        4        3        3          3        3        3         3        3
Actual
1970    1975    1476    1q77        1978    1974
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                                  42      166      217      578      533    1142
Concessional                                                    12       40       45       31       21       la
Bilateral                                                        9       15       25       12        9        7
IDA                                                              2        7        3        5        1        0
Other multilateral                                               1       1R       17       14       11       12
Non-concessional                                                  in      125      173      547      512    1122
Official export credits                                          2        9       19       25       49       12
IBRD                                                             2       10        4        8       22       31
Other multilateral                                               0        4       18       10        8       29
Private                                                         26      102      132      505      433    1051
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                   213      457      61Q    1139    15R7    2207
Official                                                       152      259      332      394      485      567
IBPD                                                         34       43       42       44       60       85
IDA                                                           6       2R       31       36       36       36
Other                                                       112       188     259      314      3R8      445
Private                                                         61      19R      287      746    1102    1640
Undisbursed Debt                                                 139      322      440      646      710      903
DEBT SERVICE'
Total debt service payments                                       24       50       82      117      206      713
Interest                                                         7       17       25       45       98      161
Payments as T exports                                            q.1      4.5      5.7      7.2    11.8    24.6
Average interest rate on new loans (7)                           6.2      7.4      7.9      7.9      R.2    11.0
Official                                                       4.2      6.6      7.7      7.0      3.0      8.6
Private                                                        7.4      8.2      8.0      8.1      9.3    11.4
Average maturity of new loans (years)                          l1.7    10.8    11.2    10.1    11.6    10.4
Official                                                      36.1    15.9    19.3    18.7    29.5    15.1
Private                                                        9.8      6.2      7.3      7.7      7.2      0.6
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (7)
IBRD TOD/total DOD                                              15.P      0.4      6.8      3.R      3.8      3.9
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements                     4.9      5.9      l.9      1.3      4.2      2.7
IBRD debt service/total debt service                            17.9    12.6    10.1        8.2      4.8      1.8
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                2.7      6.2      5.0      3.1      2.3      1.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements                      5.1      4.3      1.7      0.8      0.2      0.0
TDA debt service/total debt service                              0.0      0.6      0.4      0.3      0.2      0.0
(a)  Estimate                                                                                                                   May 28, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  (as of April 30, 1981) 1/
-------US$ million---------
Loan or                                                         (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                              Amount
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose             Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
4
11 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                      89.3       37.6          -
1030      1974         Guayaquil
Water Co.       Water Supply        23.2          -        1.3
1157     1975          Ecuador          Education            4.0           -       3.8
1229     1976          Ecuador          Seeds                3.0          -        1.8
1230     1976          Ecuador          Technical            4.0          -        3.6
Assistance
1231     1976          Ecuador          Highways            10.5          -        1.5
1255     1976          Guayaquil
Port Authority Ports                33.5          -        2.5
1359     1977          Ecuador          DFC                 26.0          -        3.0
1429     1977         Ecuador           Highways            17.5          -        9.4
1459     1977          Ecuador          Agriculture         15.5           -      11.3
S006      1978         Ecuador          Technical           11.0           -      10.6
Assistance
1644      1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0            -       17.8
1731     1979          Ecuador          DFC                 40.0           -      31.0
1776     1980          Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0           -      30.7
1879     1980          Ecuador          Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit      20.0           -      20.0
1882     1980          Ecuador          Highways            55.0          -       55.0
Total                                         401.5       37.6      203.3
of which has been repaid                     76.5        0.8
Total now outstanding                         325.0       36.8
Amount sold                           4.1
of which has been repaid            2.9       1.2          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                323.8       36.8
Total undisbursed                             203.3         -       203.3
1/   A US$20 million loan for the Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project
was approved May 12, 1981 by the Executive Directors.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1981)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                          Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.                 Textiles    3.7         0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIEC)                        DFC             -       0.4       0.4
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0               -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978           Cemento Nacional (CEM)                Cement       12.0       1.0      13.0
1980           Adamas Andina S.A.                    Pulp and
Paper       3.3       1.0       4.3
1981           Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.          Mining        1.0        .3       1.3
Total gross commitments                           25.0       2.9      27.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                          4.7        0.4       5.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                 20.3       2.5      22.8
Total undisbursed                                  4.3       1.4       5.7



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about five years behind schedule. Recently, project
execution has improved and construction is now underway on 95 percent of the
project components. Because of the delays, however, the project faces severe
cost over-runs and a serious problem of counterpart funds. More specifically,
the Guayaquil Water Company requires about US$27 million through 1982 from the
Government or from increased water tariffs to complete the project. In March
1980, the new Government provided a US$17 million loan to the Water Company
and the public development bank has programmed a second loan for 1981. A recent
tariff reform is expected to provide the Water Company some of the revenues
needed to finish the project. The Bank is now considering a Government
request to extend the Closing Date by ten months.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
After initial delays, project implementation has accelerated.
Bidding for equipment purchase and construction of the training centers is
now underway and the centers are expected to be completed by the end of this
calendar year. The present Government has shown strong support for this
project, naming a dynamic director and providing needed additional funds.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date:  October 20, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Project execution has accelerated during the past year and it
appears probable that the project can be completed by the amended closing
date, June 30, 1982. The implementing institutions (Project Unit, Department
of Seed Certification, National Seeds Council and the Seeds Company, EMSemillas)
are staffed and in operation. Because of the earlier delays, EMSemillas is not
yet operating at full capacity and thus is unable to amortize its portion of
the loan. However, procurement of works and equipment is now underway for all
of the major facilities and the National Development Bank is providing interim
financial support. Staff training has also accelerated in recent months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution-.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; IJS$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date:  October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural devel-
opment project in Tungurahua Province and will support hydrological studies for
the Guayas River Basin, on the basis of which topographic and prefeasibility
studies can be done for agricultural development in the region. These studies
would absorb over half of the loan resources. To help to accelerate this
long-delayed project, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement at the Government's
request to provide for reimbursement of local consultants services. The
Closing Date was extended to permit completion of the Guayas Basin studies.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
After an initial delay of twelve months in the contracting process,
all civil works and technical assistance elements under the project are in
execution and advancing satisfactorily, although civil works are about six
months behind schedule. The technical assistance programs are already having
positive effects on highway planning, engineering and maintenance.
The project's Closing Date has been extended to permit completion of civil
works. The feasibility studies for the recently approved Puerto Ila-Chone
rural development project were financed under this loan.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Civil works proceeded rapidly on this project following initial
delays related to design and price disputes. By April 1981, works were
essentially completed and 93 percent of the loan was disbursed. Remaining
minor works, such as paving, and tests of structures are in final stages.
The entire project is expected to be completed by mid-1981.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This project is fully committed and 90 percent disbursed. Final
disbursements are expected to coincide with the Closing Date.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about
60 percent of total project costs, is proceeding on schedule. Design changes
on this road have, however, generated an increase in costs. Construction of



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
the Puerto Ila-Doblones road is a year behind schedule and the lateral feeder
roads to this road have not yet begun; they are now about two years behind
schedule. The study of regional secondary and feeder roads in three provinces
has, on the other hand, been completed satisfactorily, and served as the basis
for the Sixth Highway Project.
*Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addition, there are applied research and technical assistance components
as well. Eleven banks and financieras are participating in lending operations.
Eighty percent of the lending program has been committed for on-farm develop-
ment, but disbursements have moved more slowly because the investment plans
extend over three years generally. Also, local counterpart funds have not
always been allocated on time.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978;
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
This project has moved ahead at a slow pace and more than three
years after effectiveness, only about US$400,000 has been disbursed. Contracts
have been signed for seven of ten selected studies and work is progressing on
drafting satisfactory terms of reference and on bidding and contracting for
most of the others. The project list has undergone revision and a final list
has been prepared. Four of the five experts to be hired under the project are
on board. The new management of FONAPRE, the executing agency is seeking to
accelerate project execution.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This integrated rural development project is progressing satisfac-
torily after about a year's delay in signing of subsidiary agreements between
the Central Bank and participating agencies. A project unit has been estab-
lished, experts have been recruited, and infrastructure planning begun. The
project unit has been working with farmers and community groups for the past
year.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Finance Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date: September 23, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is disbursing
quickly as participating DFCs had a backlog of industrial subprojects under
review. Tt was almost fully committed within four months of the effectiveness
date.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan
of May 9, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This project is the Bank's first integrated urban development
project in Ecuador. Project Units in the National Housing Bank and Munici-
pality are established and proceeding with the first steps of project execution.
Subsidiary agreements have been signed between the Central Bank and participat-
ing agencies.
Loan 1879-EC - Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project; US$20 million Loan
of October 31, 1980; Effective Date: April 1, 1981;
Closing Date December 31, 1984.
This project recently became effective. CFN, the executing agency,
began accepting applications for subloan rediscounts in March 1981.
Loan 1882-EC - Sixth Highways Project; US$55 million Loan of October 31, 1980;
Effective Date: May 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project recently became effective. The Feeder Roads project Unit
was established in January 1981 and agreements with the three participating
provinces have been signed.
Loan 1991-EC Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Develop&nent Project; US$20 million Loan
Of                       ; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1981
and is expected to be signed shortly.



- 34 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:    18 months
(b)  Project prepared by:    INECEL with the assistance of
individual consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank and First Bank mission to
consider project:        October 1979
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 1980
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:         June 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:    November 1981
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) INECEL to consolidate existing power companies into ten regional
bodies (excluding EMELEC) by December 1984 (para.40).
(b) INECEL to engage consultants by December 31, 1981 to study
efficiency of subsidiaries' distribution systems (para.42).
(c) INECEL to provide the Bank with a satisfactory interim program
to improve its supervision of its subsidiaries and its partici-
pation in their management (condition of effectiveness, para.52).
(d) Consultants to be engaged no later than December 31, 1981 to
study training programs and institutional problems of INECEL and
recommendations of the studies to be discussed with Bank and then
carried out (para.53).
(e) INECEL to take measures to submit, by 1983, consolidated financial
statements with interim 1981 and 1982 targets; to engage consul-
tants to inventory fixed assets and assess their replacement value
and then to incorporate these new replacement values in financial
statements; to select independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank (condition of loan effectiveness) and to contract these
auditors by March 31, 1982, and to cause subsidiaries to do the
same according to a timetable acceptable to the Bank (paras.56-58).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) INECEL to continue to enforce the new tariff policy so as to achieve
4 percent rate of return in 1982, 8 percent in 1983 and 8.5 percent
by 1984 and thereafter (both for INECEL and on a consolidated basis
for INECEL and its subsidiaries); to reflect in its tariffs cost
increases in excess of those forecast; to design a mechanism by
September 30, 1981 to permit all subsidiaries to meet targetted
rates of return despite different cost structures; and INECEL to
initiate a system of late payment surcharges (para.61).
(g) INECEL to obtain Bank concurrence before it or its subsidiaries
undertake additional major capital investments and to present to
Bank by December 31, 1981 a long-term borrowing strategy and proposal
to encourage long-term borrowing by subsidiaries (para.63).
(h) INECEL to study marginal cost of electricity generation and furnish
findings to the Bank no later than October 31, 1982 (para.64).
(i) INECEL to agree to accept full responsibility for supervision and
timely execution of the subtransmission program by its subsidiaries
(para.68).
(j) Government to establish prices of fuels used in electricity genera-
tion to assure rational use of hydrocarbon resources, including
achieving prices equal to 50 percent of the then prevailing world
market levels for such fuels by 1983-84 (para.39).
(k) Government to provide INECEL with equity funds of approximately
US$850 million between 1981 and 1985 (para.62).






IBRD 15486
i'r                           il. -                         e681'  80'                     7eF                           78-           JANUARY 1981
ECUADOR                                                                                                CO0LO0M BI A
INECEL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
1. NATIONAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM (SNI)                                                                                                                    I,
ESMERALDA5
PROJECT
230kv transmissicn lines
130 kv transmission lines
UNDER CO, TRUCTION
230 kv transmission lines
--   k301  tronsmission lines
EXISTING
-         230kv transmission lines
-         138kv transmission lines
*    Hydro power plants
*     Thermol power plants                           f                                       Colorc
*    Substations                                                                                               NGOPOLO
Main roods                                de
C     Rivers
Internationol boundries                  |
Mant                            S-                            Latocuo\9                                        1
r                              (      ~~~~~~~~~ ~      ~ ~~P&I-oiel.  /Ibor                                      YAMBOdo  - 
\          °So~05nt. A-c \     / e                         Arrb.ttv    PUCPA"
KtaLoeTEs  ,0   Wo 20  s   0  18             X )o  S u~cre /Ss
MILESO       20      4i>      6'0                                                                                 A       Y
1  \                             \      ^^bohoyo    -               ~~~~~~~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri6orbomo.
Sali           G  yaquil~~~N.ja
~ ato Elena                                <                            ~<                        0          °
~ te otntee Azofre.sgue o                                    CAftaAN SEA
Gotf o                           /Cue-o 3e                                                             AriAN7cC
boandafe, sie  tn 6w                                                   p              OCEANn
Gu6ayquil                                                                             ECU tJ  /tE ADOR
Posoje V _ 1 ¢°) \ ~~~~~~~~S                                 O U    T     1-1
/r~~~/  (m             /                N°g            X     ~~~~~~~A  M  E R I CAj
jc4netc.m te tegf /to o                                                          CEAN
dt*h =pWW     npWW Of II -0*                                                                   \         /
her teeitoq o,.or                                                                Lo oV\Wn/
b, sondsnd  /0                                                                                                                                     OCE  )ANZAl
tac'e no o wtcb h beooed
8    e     r           o     o     ^    t           )         *          m        a s 9



