Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13713-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT
MAY 23, 1995
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh.)
Official Rate: US$1.00 = Tsh. 530
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BOT            Bank of Tanzania
BSD            Bank Supervision Directorate
CMSA           Capital Markets Security Authority
CRDB           Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DJIT           Diamond Jubilee Investment Trust
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
FMID           Financial Markets Directorate
FSAC           Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GOT            Government of Tanzania
LART           Loans and Advances Recovery Trust
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NBAA           National Board of Accountants and Auditors
NBC            National Bank of Commerce
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NIC            National Insurance Corporation
NPF            National Provident Fund
PBZ            People's Bank of Zanzibar
PC             Planning Commission
PPRP           Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project
PSRC           Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
PTF            Privatization Trust Fund
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This report is prepared by IDA in collaboration with Government of Tanzania. The IDA team
consisted of Mr. Gerard Byam (Task Manager), Redha Behbehani, Dong He, Nancy McInemey-
Lacombe and Paul Murgatroyd. The team also included consultants Wendy Abt, Ray Astin, Robin
Marriott. Eric Postel, Qamar Siddiqi and Paul Vonckx. The Government team consisted of Dr. I.
Rashidi (Governor, BOT), Mr. G. Mgonja and Mr. A. Myinyimvua (BOT) and Mr. G. Mbowe
(Chairman, PSRC). The mission was assisted in preparation of this document by Ellen Martin and
Mariel Fiat. The Lead Advisor is Mr. R. Pardy and Peer Reviewers are Luigi Passamonti (IFC), and
Charles Enoch (IMF). The Sector Division Chief and the Acting Country Director are R. E. Hindle
and Micahel Carter, respectively.



TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
SECTION   I - BACKGROUND   ................................................I
SECTION   n  - THE  FINANCIAL  SECTOR                                        ................................................2
A.  Overview   .................................................2
B.  Macro-economic Framework  ..................................................4
C.  Bank  Supervision ................................................6
D.  Competition .................................................8
E.  Bank Restructuring  ........8.........................................8
F.  IDA's Previous Role and Lessons Learned ................................................                                 14
G.  Rationale for IDA's Involvement ................................................ 15
SECTION               - THE  PROJECT .................................................                                            16
A. Project Objectives ................................................                                                      16
B.  Summary Project Description ................................................ 16
C.  Detailed Project Description ................................................. 18
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan ................................................                                        29
SECTION IV - IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .                                                            .................................... 30
A.  Implementation  Arrangements ................................................. 30
B. Procurement ................................................                                                             31
C. Disbursements  .               ................................................ 33
D.  Auditing  and Reporting Requirements ................................................                                   33
E.  The Role of Technical Assistance ................................................ 34
F.  Supervision ................................................                                                            34
G.  Environmental Impact ................................................                                                   35
SECTION   V  -  BENEFITS  &   RISKS  ................................................ 35
SECTION VI- AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION.. ............................. 36



Tables in the Main Text
1. Project Components
2. Project Cost Summary
3. Project Financing Plan
4. Procurement Arrangements
5. Disbursement Schedule
ANNEXES
ANNEX1        LETTER OF FINANCIAL POLICY
ANNEX 2       DIVESTITURE STRATEGY SCHEDULE
ANNEX 3       NBC FINANCIAL DATA
ANNEX 4       BANK SUPERVISION IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ANNEX 5       BANK SUPERVISION TRAINING PROGRAM
ANNEX 6       PRIVATIZATION TRUST FUND
ANNEX 7       TERMS OF REFERENCE
ANNEX 8       PROJECT COST
ANNEX9        PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP
ANNEX10       PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
ANNEX11       MONITORABLE INDICATORS
ANNEX 12       DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES



REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Tanzania
Implementing Agency:    Bank of Tanzania
Beneficiaries:            Bank of Tanzania, National Bank of Commerce, People's
Bank of Zanzibar, Capital Markets and Securities Authority,
Private Financial Institutions.
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Amount:                   SDR 7.5 million (US$10.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:           0. 50% on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:           See Section III D, Table 3
Net Present Value:        Not applicable
Project Identification No.: TZ PA 35620






I. BACKGROUND
1. 1.  In 1991, the Government of Tanzania initiated its financial sector reform program
with the support from an IDA credit for financial sector adjustment (FSAC). The aim of
the program was to create a financial system that operates on the basis of market-
oriented principles, is efficient in mobilizing and allocating resources, and effective in
fostering long-term economic growth. Conceptually, the program was intended to: (i)
support a stable, market-oriented macro-economic framework; (ii) strengthen the
financial infrastructure, including banking and associated legislation; (iii) create a
competitive environment and introduce private participation in the banking sector; and
(iv) strengthen the existing banks. It was recognized, however, that the reforms needed
to achieve these objectives could not be speedily implemented, given the precarious
situation of the financial institutions. The short to medium-term objective was, therefore,
to create an appropriate policy and regulatory environment conducive to private sector
entry of both domestic and foreign banks while increasing private sector participation in
existing financial institutions. Specifically, the program included passage of new banking
laws and prudential regulations, restructuring of the three Government-owned
commercial banks, legislation to promote private sector participation in the insurance
industry, and initial steps to promote the emergence of a capital market in Tanzania
through the enactment of the Capital Markets and Securities Act.
1.2.  The reform program proceeded much slower than planned. Despite a number of
advances, the portfolios of the government-owned banks - of which a large share
consisted of loans to parastatals - were in more serious shape than foreseen and the
reforms in the parastatal sector were slow to materialize.  In August 1993, the
Government released its Master Plan for Parastatal Privatization and Reform. The Plan
entails the privatization, closure and liquidation of parastatals and the restructuring of
remaining parastatals to enhance their financial and operating performance. Technical
assistance is financed by an IDA credit for Parastatal and Public Sector Reform (PPRP)
and the policy reforms will be supported by a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC), which will also support the continuation of policy reforms in the financial sector.
1.3.   The proposed Financial Institutions Development Project would build upon FSAC
and would complement the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). Specifically,
FIDP would finance the technical assistance required to assist with the implementation of
reforms in the financial sector supported by SAC. Total financing of about $13.4 million
equivalent, including $8.4 million in foreign exchange, would be required for the project.
The proposed IDA credit of $10.9 million equivalent would support the following
components: (a) the restructuring and privatization of the National Bank of Commerce
(NBC) and the People's Bank of Zanzibar (PBZ); (b) continued strengthening of the
Bank Supervision Directorate (BSD) at the Bank of Tanzania; (c) studies to upgrade the
payments system and a business plan for a private credit information bureau; and (d)
support for the development of the insurance industry and capital markets.



2
1.4.  The proposed project is one of a series which aim to support the medium- to
long-term development of Tanzania's financial sector. The restructuring of Tanzania's
major financial institutions will lead, perforce, to a substantial reduction in basic financial
services in some of Tanzania's remotest areas. The next financial sector credit, which
would support a proposed Rural Finance project, would attempt to build upon the
achievements of this project and sustain the expansion of financial services into rural
areas.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.    Overview
2.1.   Since the Arusha Declaration of 1967, the Tanzanian financial sector was mainly
Government-owned and comprised of (i) The Bank of Tanzania (BOT), the Central
Bank, (ii) three commercial banks--the National Bank of Commerce (NBC), the
Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB) and the People's Bank of Zanzibar
(PBZ), (iii) two development banks--the Tanzania Investment Bank and the Tanzania
Development Finance Limited, (iv) an assortment of smaller special-purpose non-bank
financial institutions--the Tanzania Post Office Savings Bank, the Tanzania Housing
Bank, the National Insurance Corporation, the National Provident Fund, the Parastatal
Pension Fund and a hire purchase company; and (v) the Diamond Jubilee Investment
Trust. Tanzania also had roughly 400 savings and credit societies, mainly located in
urban areas and over 200 cooperatives involved in financial intermediation in rural areas.
There were no capital or money markets, other than Government bonds and Treasury
Bills issued primarily to the insurance company, pension funds and savings bank.
However, the informal financial markets were active in foreign exchange dealings, fund
transfers and debt financing.
2.2.  By 1988, the financial sector was in a state of crisis, due mainly to the pervasive
interference of the Government in the financial system. Credit was directed on the basis
of Government priorities without regard to creditworthiness, and banks were convenient
agents of fiscal policy. The lack of separation between fiscal and financial activities,
combined with an unfavorable economic environment and an inadequate regulatory
framework, led to a significant misallocation of credit to banking system clientele who
were bankrupt and mostly in arrears; an ineffective monetary policy and an unstable
macro-economic framework characterized by the unchecked growth in the money supply;
and a lack of competition. Weak bank supervision further contributed to the crisis in the
sector.
2.3.  In August 1988, a Commission of Enquiry into the Monetary and Banking system
was established by the Government. Its mission was to examine the sector and make



3
recommendations on how to improve its overall performance and support economic
growth. The Commission presented its recommendations to the President in July 1990.
These recommendations mainly focused on: (i) stimulating competition by encouraging
private banks and joint ventures; (ii) strengthening the existing financial institutions; (iii)
developing management accountability; and (iv) the recovery of non-performing loans.
2.4.  Building on the findings of the Banking Commission, the Government
implemented a series of measures in 1991. The Government issued a Policy Statement
on financial sector reform which acknowledged the perverse impact on the sector caused
by a lack of competition and Government interference. In an important reversal of
policy, the Banking and Financial Institutions Act was enacted. The Act permitted the
entry of private banks into the market and vested BOT with supervisory and regulatory
controls. Also, interest rates were liberalized and banks were allowed to set lending rates
below an announced maximum and to set deposit rates freely, subject to the twelve-
month deposit rate being positive in real terms. The Government also enacted the Loans
and Advances Realization Trust Act to create an expeditious machinery for the recovery
of overdue debts. Finally, banking supervision in BOT was expanded and strengthened.
2.5.  The reform  program, which was supported by FSAC, consisted of four
components. The first component aimed to support a stable macro-economic framework,
including the development of a money market and indirect methods of monetary policy
control, within which financial institutions would be able to operate autonomously. The
second component of the program supported the strengthening of the regulatory
environment including a revision and streamlining of banking and associated legislation,
the introduction of banking supervision and regulation functions at the Bank of Tanzania
and a review of the accounting and auditing framework. The third component supported
the creation of a competitive environment and the introduction of private participation in
the banking sector. The fourth component addressed institutional strengthening of the
existing banks, including financial, organizational and managerial restructuring,
recapitalization based upon both public and private participation; and the establishment of
a mechanism for removing some non-performing assets from the banking system and for
facilitating collection and liquidation where necessary.
2.6.  Measured against the expected achievements of each of these four components of
the reform  strategy, FSAC enjoyed only minimal success.  The program's major
accomplishment was to deregulate and liberalize the banking system. However, a
competitive banking industry is yet to emerge in Tanzania and a large reform agenda
remains in each of the four areas of the strategy.  The performance of FSAC's four
components are discussed below.



4
B. Macro-economic Framework and Money Market Development
2.7.  Economic Performance. Macro-economic performance has deteriorated since
1992/93 (i.e FY93). A fiscal surplus (including grants) which amounted to 2.3% of GDP
in FY92 was reduced to a deficit of 8.1% in FY93 primarily due to a sharp decline in
indirect tax revenues. Partly as a result of an accommodating monetary policy, the
money supply increased by 40%, and inflation remained over 20% in FY93. In an effort
to improve the fiscal situation, the Government passed a supplementary finance bill in
January 1993 which increased tax rates and user charges, reduced tax exemptions,
strengthened tax enforcement, and aimed to reduce expenditures. BOT also took steps
to contain the growth of the money supply; these included the introduction of a treasury
bill auction as part of BOT's efforts to use indirect methods of monetary control. These
measures were augmented by the 1993/94 budget which called for substantial tax
increases, including increases in customs sales taxes, introduction of a real estate tax,
increases in various fees and user charges for Government services, inclusion of excise
taxes on imports in the base used to calculate sales taxes, and further strengthening of tax
administration. The budget also limited increases in recurrent expenditure.
2.8.  Despite the introduction of these measures, macro economic performance
declined further in FY94. Government borrowing from domestic sources amounted to
approximately 5% of GDP in the second quarter of the fiscal year, indicating a serious
loss of monetary control. This was largely due to very high levels of expenditure,
particularly wage increases granted to the defense and security establishment and a large
check float from the previous year. On the revenue side, collections of taxes on imports
equaled less than half of assessed values due, in part, to a new policy of granting tax
exemptions to a number of industries for their imported inputs. In addition, there were
substantial leakages through the financial system as NBC extended credit to agricultural
cooperatives.
2.9.  In January 1994, the Government reached agreement with the IMF on a Fund
staff monitored program. The program included the introduction of a comprehensive
package of fiscal measures including the effective rescinding of the customs duty
exemptions order and a review of tax exemptions with a view to decreasing their number.
The program also included measures to improve the performance of NBC, including the
reconstitution of the Board and steps toward the privatization of the bank (see below).
2.10. Money Market Development.  In July 1993, the Government removed the
remaining control on interest rates - the ceiling on lending rates of 31 percent per annum.
Commercial banks were allowed to set their own interest rates on loans, subject to the
rate being greater than the inflation rate. During that month, the Government also held
its first foreign exchange auction and, in August, the Government introduced regular
auctions of short-term treasury bills. The former was an important tool in unifying the



5
official and parallel currency exchange rates, while the latter was to establish a reference
point for interest rates. Both auctions are important in soaking up excess liquidity and
putting downward pressure on inflation and inflationary expectations.  Since the
introduction of the foreign exchange auction, the exchange rate has moved within a
narrow band of between Tsh 515 to Tsh 544 to the dollar. On the other hand, T bill rates
have varied sharply moving from 28 percent in September 1993 to over 90 percent and
then to 47 percent at the end of 1994". However, the full impact of the T bill auction on
reducing excess liquidity was offset by NBC which continued to inject liquidity into the
economy by operating on minimal spreads and incurring operational losses.
2.11. One of the most important changes that the T-bill auction heralds is the
establishment of a market-driven benchmark for other interest rates. Also, the T-bill
auction can reduce liquidity in the system, and thereby reduce the historically high
inflation rates in Tanzania. However, there are potential risks. First, the government
may see the process as a new financing mechanism for future deficits. Second, the theory
of market-driven interest rates is based on competition in the marketplace so that no
single party can substantially influence the behavior of others. NBC dominates the
financial sector and its behavior affects T-bill pricing. Participation in the market is very
thin. Hence, improvements to the operations of the market will require: (i) stricter
control of the deficit, coupled with better coordination between the Treasury and BOT
on the former's cash flow requirements; (ii) a substantial reduction of NBC's dominance
in the financial sector; and (iii) the creation of a secondary market for T bills.
2.12. More fundamentally, the development of a money market will require significant
improvements to Tanzania's payments system. The system is based mainly on cash with
checks used primarily by government ministries. The creation of the Dar es Salaam
Clearing House in July 1993 was an important improvement to the payments system.
However, the system is still at a very early stage of development and there are still long
check clearing delays as a result of deficiencies in communications and transportation
infrastructure. The time for a collecting bank to credit cleared funds to payee accounts is
six working days in Dar es Salaam and up to 28 days for branches in the rest of Tanzania.
This is one reason the Tanzanian public is very reluctant to use checks as a system of
domestic payments. This is reflected in the unusually high ratio of currency in circulation
to money supply (.36). The slowness and inefficiencies of the clearing system also pose
serious problems for monetary policy management since large payment system floats
make liquidity levels very difficult to manage.
11 The Government introduced a tax on T bills in July 1994.



6
C.    Bank Supervision.
2.13. The Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1991 strengthened BOT's bank
supervision authority and, in November 1992, banking supervision was elevated to the
status of a Directorate and staffing levels were increased. The directorate has evolved
quite strongly as a result of a new series of banking laws and prudential regulations. It
has begun to develop most of the basic skills necessary to conduct banking examinations
and has conducted a series of on-site examinations. The initial design of examination
methodologies for both on and off-site supervision has been undertaken and the
development of regulations to support the legislative framework, including policy and
procedural guidelines for the licensing of new banks and other financial institutions, has
been issued.
2.14.  A significant portion of the necessary upgrading of staff technical skills is being
adequately addressed. The major weakness remains in the delays in implementing an
effective off-site monitoring system.  A number of standardized forms have been
developed. However, implementation and compliance by the financial institutions have
not been consistent. Also, a major constraint to effective bank supervision is the lack of
integrity overall of the financial data. Accounting standards are very weak and disclosure
poor; although a significant effort has been made to establish an off-site surveillance
system, the struggle to ensure integrity in the data has been onerous.  This difficulty is
amplified in attempts to determine bank solvency through loan portfolio reviews.
Consequently, a measure of the non-performing assets in the system is rudimentary, at
best. The analytical skills and acumen of examiners need to be above average when
dealing with such poor quality of information in order to glean from it some level of
reliable analysis.
2.15. The directorate has a set of enforcement regulations which allow for issuance of
"cease and desist" orders and/or monetary penalties to be imposed on the banks for non-
submission of periodic reports. They can also take punitive action in the case of non-
compliance of required liquidity or capital adequacy ratios. Hence, the BOT, upon the
recommendation of the Directorate of Bank Supervision, has imposed penalty interest
charges for failure to maintain the required levels of liquidity reserves. Until this year, the
payments were simply debited from the banks' accounts with BOT, and the penalties were
not sufficiently onerous to modify the behavior of the banks.
2.16. The Directorate is divided into three units (banks, non-bank institutions, and
foreign exchange bureaus), each of which has an on-site examination section and a central
financial analysis section which is mandated to undertake off-site surveillance activities.
Unfortunately, the current staffing of these sections is heavily skewed towards the
examination groups.  The financial analysis sections are understaffed, and off-site
supervision activities have suffered as a result. This understaffing only compounds the



7
basic problem as the financial institutions themselves do not take the reporting
requirements seriously and have not complied with the basic financial reporting
regulations on a timely basis.
2.17. The efforts of Bank Supervision to date can best be described as limited in scope
but expanding on an ambitious scale. The Directorate's work has concentrated mainly on
examinations of the larger NBC branches and protracted exams of both CRDB and the
Tanzania Investment Bank in anticipation of the implementation of their scheduled
restructuring programs. The examination sections have conducted on-site examinations
at each of the five Government banks and have reported on the virtual insolvency of each
of these institutions. Their examinations have revealed that over 70% of all loans in these
banks are non-performing and that all are operating in an unsafe and unsound manner.
2.18. The severe problems within the financial institutions make the role of the
Directorate all the more critical and complex. Gross errors in basic loan approval
systems and accounting techniques continue despite many warnings by Bank Supervision.
The capital requirements necessary to rectify the situation as found in these examinations
and restore the financial system to solvency are massive. Over the next few months, the
Directorate will have to devote even more attention to the problem banks, even as new
banks enter the market. This will severely strain the Directorate's capacity, test the skills
of its staff, and curtail its ability to conduct new on-site examinations.
2.19.  The Directorate also must make greater use of its enforcement powers, including
the ability to impose monetary penalties and issue cease and desist orders as well as the
ability to remove bank management when it continues to ignore directives. The office
must increase its staffing levels with particular emphasis on off-site surveillance analysts
in order to strengthen its off-site monitoring capabilities.
2.20. The complex and difficult restructuring programs which will require substantial
oversight by Directorate personnel will severely test the technical abilities and staffing
levels of Bank Supervision. The Directorate needs to expand substantially if it is to
properly perform its functions as one of the architects of the future financial system, as
well as conduct the number of in-depth on-site examinations it must be able to undertake
annually. While the expansion of staff levels is clearly needed, the ability to effect this
growth while simultaneously training the new staff is critical. Placing inexperienced and
untrained bank examiners in the field too early can be counterproductive. The ongoing
series of staff training programs must be continued in order for Bank Supervision to
reach its potential as an effective regulatory unit. The programs also must be augmented
to expand its focus on the internal control environment and the corporate governance
processes required to mitigate risk. This is of particular importance as the financial
system expands and diversifies.



8
2.21.  These issues must be addressed and resolved if the Directorate is to carry out its
role to protect the interests of depositors, implement BOT policies and maintain the
safety and soundness of the financial system.
D.   Competition
2.22. The reform program encouraged the emergence of a competitive environment
through the introduction of private sector participation in the banking sector.
Participation was envisaged through the entry of new banks and the restructuring and
privatization of existing banks. Two new banks began operations in late 1993 and four
other banks have been licensed2. Understandably, the new banks have been very cautious
and have been limiting their activities in terms of deposit mobilization and lending. Their
behavior, to some extent, is dictated by the overall economic environment, but also to the
disappointingly slow pace of restructuring of the National Bank of Commerce.
E.    Bank Restructurinz
2.23. FSAC supported the strengthening of the existing banks, including restructuring
and recapitalization. Progress in this area was disappointing. Although the Government-
owned financial institutions were to be recapitalized with significant portions of their non-
performing assets transferred to the specially created Loans and Advances Recovery
Trust (LART), the banks are still insolvent and incurring substantial losses.
2.24. Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART). LART was created in June 1991
and became fully operational in early 1993 following the appointments of the
Administrator, Board and Tribunal members in June 1992; and the signing of Memoranda
of Understanding (MOU) specifying the responsibilities and obligations of the banks and
the Government pertaining to the transfers of non-performing assets. Following the
completion of portfolio reviews and loans classification by BOT, approximately Tsh 36
billion of the non-performing assets of NBC, CRDB and TIB were transferred to LART
in 1993.  These assets represented 91 separate corporate customers, including 24
parastatals and incorporated 104 actual credit facilities. As of January 1995, eighty (80)
firms have been placed under receivership including 22 parastatals; 8 firms were sold,
including 2 parastatals, and of these 8, 4 firms have completed the dissolution process.
Loan recoveries by LART to year end 1994 amounted to Tsh 1.6 billion or 23% of the
total estimated recoveries of Tsh 7 billion. The legislation which created LART requires
that it be wound up by the end of 1995.
2.25. Restructuring the National Bank of Commerce. Given NBC's doininance in the
financial sector, the pace of its restructuring essentially determines the pace of financial
2/ One of the new banks was closed in March, 1995 and subsequently taken over by another foreign
private bank.



9
sector reform in Tanzania. The largest and oldest commercial bank in Tanzania, NBC
has, for the past 28 years, enjoyed a virtual monopoly in terms of branch network,
savings mobilization and extension of credit and other commercial banking services.
Faced with rising costs, high levels of non-performing assets and declining efficiency, the
bank is undergoing financial and organizational restructuring, and at the same time
redefining its market niche as private commercial banks enter the market. In 1992, the
Government began implementation of a plan to restructure the bank. The plan called for
the gradual restructuring of the loan portfolio using guidelines for classifying risk assets
and provisioning, the downsizing of NBC's branch network and staffing, and a structural
reorganization aimed at separating business development functions from credit
management while placing new emphasis upon account and portfolio management.
2.26. NBC was recapitalized by the Government in a two-part transaction in November
1992 and in October 1993. The recapitalization required the issuance of Tsh5O billion in
treasury bonds at an annual expense to the Government of Tsh 8.6 billion.  The
transaction was relatively complicated: subsequent to a loan portfolio review as of
December 1991 that was completed in December 1992, some Tsh 28 billion loans were
turned over to LART for collection; Tsh47 billion of outstandings were effectively
charged-off but NBC continued to manage collections for the benefit of Government
under a fee arrangement; at least Tsh8.8 billion were guaranteed by the Government and,
thus, were retained as loans to Central Government; and some Tsh4.3 billion loans were
characterized as long-term loans.  In addition, as part of the overall restructuring
program, 23 loss making branches were closed and 2,000 staff were retrenched.
2.27. In the second half of 1993, there were a number of setbacks to the restructuring
program especially in terms of branch closings, staff retrenchment, and credit policies.
Also, with the introduction of the T bills auction system, NBC was slow to raise deposit
rates to face the competition from the auction, and was equally slow in adjusting its
lending rates in an increasingly illiquid environment. These factors, plus a substantial
increase in the minimum reserve requirements from 4 percent to 10 percent, placed the
bank in a precarious financial position by January 1994.
2.28. A short term action plan to curtail losses and to begin preparations for a more
radical restructuring of NBC was adopted in February 1994. A ceiling on outstanding
loans was imposed at the level of January 31, 1994. Data through March 1995 indicate
that NBC is complying with the ceiling, which will continue until a new and professional
management team in NBC has prepared and begun implementation of a new business
plan. NBC also was directed to cease lending to non-performing borrowers. The Board
of Directors was reconstituted at the end of March 1994, and they, with the senior
management, quickly undertook to institute a number of measures to redress the
situation, examples of which included: (a) suspension of new credit facilities and scaling
down of existing facilities by 20% to all but the most liquid and performing borrowers,



10
(b) intensification of loan management and recovery efforts including foreclosure of
securities pledged on past due accounts, (c) credit training, and (d) instituting disciplinary
action against dishonest employees as well as retrenching 800 additional staff by April
1994. The NBC Act was amended in August 1994 to provide for private shareholding.
A detailed portfolio review was completed in September, 1994 as part of a diagnostic
evaluation of the bank. The evaluation will firm up the details of the Government's
privatization strategy for NBC.
2.29. NBC's loan portfolio grew by 10% per annum during the three year period from
June 1991 to June 1994. This represents a significant reduction in real terms. The
distribution of the most seriously classified loans (doubtful and loss) across sectors,
according to both NBC and a diagnostic evaluation, is not proportionate to loans
outstanding. The private portfolio grew from 41% of gross loans outstanding in June
1993 to 50% in June 1994, but constituted only approximately 30% of the doubtful and
loss loans. The proportion of NBC's portfolio that is cooperative and marketing boards
has decreased by 9% since June 1993, but it still represents around 34% of the losses.
The percentage of NBC's portfolio devoted to parastatals has declined by 5%, from 26%
to 21% and represents approximately 23% of the loss and doubtful loan portfolio.
Updated numbers to December 1994, show the portfolio continues to deteriorate with
only 9% of the portfolio unclassified as at that date.
2.30. The three portfolio reviews completed in 1994 indicate that the portfolio has
continued to deteriorate over the year. The last review in December 1994 confirmed that
non-performing loans i.e. classified sub-standard or worse had reached a level of 77% of
the total portfolio, as compared to previous estimates of 50% to 70%. The varying
estimates reflect previous major uncertainties about the bank's current financial condition
stemming in particular from the integrity of Tsh 58 billion of reported interest income,
and the appropriateness of characterizing Tsh 21 billion of liabilities as equity. Hence,
despite the implementation of the action plan in February 1994, it is now apparent that
the bank again is seriously insolvent and requires a very dramatic downsizing and
restructuring if it is to stem current losses and successfully reach self-sustainability (see
Annex 3 for a summary of NBC's unaudited balance sheet and income statement as of
June, 1994).
2.31. The gap between NBC's third posting of June, 1994 numbers as provided in
Annex 3 and financials reflecting the adjustments that have been recommended as a result
of the diagnostic review are vast. NBC's numbers showed a Tsh 20 billion profit for the
year, despite current year provision expenses of Tsh 38.6 billion. With the financial
adjustments made to the June 1993/1994 statements, NBC will record a loss of over Tsh
50 billion. The magnitude of the loss is due to a number of items. Operationally, NBC
has been accruing interest income on non-performing loans and Tsh 10 to 14 billion is to
be added to the losses, as accrued interest income is correctly reversed for loans which



11
were past due 90 days or more. Even if only 50% of the loan portfolio had been non-
performing throughout the year, Tsh58 billion of interest income equates to a stunning
62% yield on the remaining accruing loans. Interest income increased by 60% or Tsh22
billion over FY93. While the yield on gross loans reached 33%, the cost of deposits
declined to 7%.
2.32. In addition to the questionable net interest margin, other sources of NBC's FY94
income seem unsustainable, at best. Exchange gains reached Tsh22.4 billion, a 167%
increase supposedly reflecting successful trading activities of NBC. Much of this gain has
had to be reversed as NBC's auditors have disallowed the income. Meanwhile, non-
interest expenses have increased by 40% from Tshl8.6 billion to Tsh26.1 billion. The
biggest increases were in retrenchment costs, depreciation, and maintenance. If exchange
equalization gains and revaluation of real estate are excluded from equity and all of the
currently most conservative estimates of provisions, reserves and interest income
reversals are used, then equity could fall to between a negative Tsh 55 and 75 billion.
2.33. The sizable adjustments to NBC's financial statements was caused by:
.considerable difficulties in clearing interbranch transactions including uncleared
checks, money transfers and other risk assets (for example, mishandled funds).
The extent of the problem was reflected in the large and unreconciled balances
in the Head Office Suspense and Interbranch Clearing accounts. These are the
result of NBC's cumbersome interbranch clearing system and the absence of
proper internal controls to prevent loss or funds manipulation. As a result of a
major effort by NBC to clean up this problem, the previous 80 troublesome
branches have been reduced to 8 to 10, with the unreconciled balances reduced
to a small fraction (10%) of their former level, however, still recording a large
unreconciled position requiring a reserve of Tsh 17 billion.
. previous substantial unreconciled balances in the House account. This account
is the repository of other transactions which have not been settled, i.e
suspended items other than normal checks and money transfers. Examples of
such items include forged checks. Although the Board set a date of September
30, 1994 to clear all long-standing items in this account, this was not achieved
and the diagnostic review identified a required reserve of Tsh 12 billion.
. the lack of internal controls and inadequate reconciliation and audit procedures
over a number of other internal accounts.  Consequently, a number of
additional adjustments relating to nostro balances, bills negotiated, contingent
liabilities, among others were required. The discrepancy for these accounts
alone amounted to over Tsh 25 billion.



12
. NBC's staff lack of experience with, and understanding of, the loan
classification process. The Credit Department charged with responsibility for
credit analysis and loan review has been unable to reconcile the quarterly
provision reports, which enumerate and classify the branch's loans, with either
the loan balances reported on the general ledger or the balances removed
and/or guaranteed by the Government as part of the recapitalizations;
. the accounting associated with the transfer of loans to LART and the
recapitalizations in FY1993 and FY1994 has neither been timely nor well
understood. As a result, NBC's management has not been able to track trends
in the quality of its loan portfolio given their inability to segregate non-
performing loans from those of subsequent periods. As well, the 11% coupon
to service the bonds which replaced the assets moved to LART, has never been
paid by the Government, severely hampering NBC's ability to operate on a
commercial basis.
2.34. NBC's management and staff are making substantial efforts to deal with its
significant non-performing loan portfolio, as well as institute proper control procedures
across the bank. Measurement of loan collection results has been introduced bankwide.
Staff are fully aware of the new priority and their success in collection is being strictly
monitored and will impact the personnel appraisal system. A new loan recovery unit has
been established to deal with the largest and toughest credits. A detailed loan recovery
plan for the largest 50 credits has been finalized and is under implementation and this
coupled with evidence of tangible collection results is a precondition for appraisal of the
proposed SAC. However, despite these diligent efforts to restructure and strengthen its
operations, the bank again appears to be on the brink of insolvency and is imposing an
increasing burden on Tanzania's real sectors. It is urgent and essential that NBC is far
more fundamentally restructured than what has been envisaged to date.
2.35. Restructuring the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank. After a delay due
to problems in securing funding for technical assistance, a detailed restructuring plan for
CRDB was finalized. The problems stemmed from donor requests in 1992 for a change
in CRDB's senior management and for the appointment of a private external auditor.
From July 1992 through June 1993 CRDB's net worth deficit deteriorated substantially.
Company prepared financial statements for 1993 contained gross accounting errors
which overstated collected interest income which had actually been capitalized, under
provided for non-performing assets, and erroneously recorded the bond received.
Hence, it is difficult to provide the exact extent of the deterioration in the bank's net
worth. However, estimates range from a deficit of Tsh. 27.3 billion to a deficit of Tsh 35
billion as of June 30, 1993, particularly if the in-house suspense items are reconciled and
the loss position is recognized. In either case, this is a significant increase over the Tsh



13
21.5 billion deficit reported in the June 30, 1992 audited financial statements and
illustrated the continuing deterioration of the institution.
2.36. There has been an improvement in performance as the management moved
aggressively to implement the restructuring plan. The plan calls for the privatization of
CRDB through the sale of shares to cooperatives and private individuals, with up to 30
per cent of the shares retained by a Trust, capitalized by DANIDA, pending their sale to
the public. A new organizational structure for headquarters, zonal and branch offices
was prepared and, as a result, a total of 600 staff members were retrenched. However,
CRDB's losses continued to grow and the bank's viability remained questionable.
Furthermore, in recapitalizing CRDB, some donor financed lines of credits were
erroneously omitted from the bank's balance sheet. The result was that CRDB remained
undercapitalized even after the last capital injection by the Government in October 1993.
2.37. The BOT has imposed a freeze on lending until completion of the recapitalization
program. To date, CRDB has made some progress:
C Capital. CRDB completed its privatization program in January. Sale of
shares to the public has been much stronger than anticipated with 9,962
individuals holding 41% of the approx. 200,000 offered. Danida's shares
represent 29%, cooperatives 16%, and corporations 14%. Notwithstanding
this success, the capital adequacy of the bank remains in question until the
external audit of its books is completed and the level of recovery, provisioning
and write-off of impaired assets is finalized and the statements are approved by
BOT.
* Management.  Senior management are very committed, although their
experience in restructuring a troubled commercial bank is very thin.
Retrenchment to date has been sizeable with total staff decreasing from 1,600
to 1,000 to date. Further staff reductions may be undertaken. The impact of
the retrenchment has allowed CRDB to reduce its operating expense from over
60 per cent to 54 per cent of financial income by June 1994. The targeted level
is 33 per cent. The annual statements, once finalized, will indicate annual
performance against target.
* Earnings. Due to accounting problems, it is difficult to determine if CRDB is
profitable. By CRDB's rough calculation, it has had loan recoveries of Tsh
10.5 billion, although the booking of these recoveries has been credited, in
error, to the wrong general ledger accounts. Consequently, both income and
asset accounts need to be reconstructed to enable CRDB to audit its books and
issue its financial statements.



14
Liquidity.  Despite a strong deposit mobilization effort, CRDB's liquidity
position was very weak during 1994 causing, at times, their expulsion from the
clearing house and fines by the BOT for non-compliance with the cash reserve
ratio. Its large non-performing portfolio has been the main reason for its tight
liquidity. The BOT has worked with CRDB to manage its liquidity position and
the Bank Supervision Directorate monitors the position weekly. By the third
and fourth quarters, loan recoveries coupled with some deposit mobilization
enabled CRDB to comply with the liquidity regulations. Strong management
of this position, however, continues to be required.
2.38. Despite the bank's reported successes in loan recovery and equity mobilization,
the overall financial position remains in question until the significant accounting problems
are resolved and the audit finalized. Only following resolution of these issues and
demonstrated compliance with all prudential guidelines, will the BOT allow a change in
licensing status. Until then, a freeze on further lending will remain in place.
2.39. Restructuring of Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB). Prior to FSAC, TIB mainly
lent to industrial parastatals and over 90 per cent of its portfolio was in arrears of one
year or more. The bank also was illiquid. An advisory team was appointed in October
1992 and a restructuring plan was finalized and agreed with IDA. Major elements of the
plan included a redefinition of TIB's role and its transformation into a merchant bank;
and its privatization through sale of a majority of its shares to a foreign partner. TIB has
ceased all lending, pending its transformation and privatization.
2.40. Restructuring of Other Banks. A restructuring plan for TDFL was finalized in
1992 and the institution was recapitalized by its shareholders. A restructuring plan for
the Tanzania Housing Bank was finalized in April 1994. The People's Bank of Zanzibar
remained undercapitalized for most of the program  period.  Although PBZ's non-
performing assets were transferred to LART in November 1993 and the bank was
recapitalized, a restructuring plan was not finalized. Preparation of the restructuring plan
did not begin until February 1994 and the plan is yet to be finalized although a draft is
now available.
F.    IDA's Previous Role and Lessons Learned
2.41. IDA supported the Government's policy reforms in the financial sector through
FSAC. The program legally deregulated and liberalized the banking system. However, it
failed to accomplish the intended restructuring of NBC, and consequently, although
private banks have opened, the major problem in the sector remains the absence of
meaningful competition.



15
2.42. There are three major reasons why FSAC failed to accomplish the significant
restructuring of the banking system which was envisaged. These factors would all be
addressed by the proposed Financial Institutions Development Project.  First, the
program assumed that the emergence of competitive private banks would gradually erode
NBC's market share. Although there has been some loss of market share, future
expansion by the private banks will be constrained by their limited Dar es Salaam branch
networks and, more importantly, their strategic targeting of relatively narrow niches. As
a result, NBC remains dominant and will continue to dominate. A more aggressive
strategy, which is supported by the proposed project, is required to reduce NBC's market
share. Second, FSAC financed advisers to NBC's management. However there was no
incentive for NBC's management to change and no incentive for the experts to perform.
Until recently, there had been no discernible change in NBC's banking culture. The
proposed project would finance a management team for NBC who would be evaluated, in
part, on the basis of NBC's financial performance.  Third, FSAC did not include
timebound performance targets against which NBC's performance could be judged. The
proposed project includes dated monitorable targets.
G.   Rationale for IDA's Involvement
2.43. Country Strategy. The Bank's lending strategy is to assist the Government to
reduce poverty through an acceleration in the pace of structural reform and the provision
of infrastructure and social services (especially targeted to the poor), while ensuring an
environmentally sustainable development path. The strategy articulates specific criteria
for determining Tanzania's eligibility for substantial IDA support, including adjustment
loans. The criteria include improvements in the operation of public sector banks,
including stemming losses, increases in the quality of their portfolios, the introduction of
private management, and eventual divestiture.  The proposed Financial Institutions
Development project seeks to strengthen the banking sector and, more broadly, improve
the access of the private sector to the banking system in general and to capital markets.
IDA also is assisting the Government with the formulation of a strategy for the
development of rural banking.
2.44. The development of a market-oriented financial system is a complex process
which will require sustained efforts over many years and will need to be supported by a
series of IDA operations. The Government's reform program, which was supported by
FSAC, enjoyed some success in creating a regulatory environment conducive to the entry
of both domestic and foreign private banks.  The proposed Financial Institutions
Development Project would address the major remaining impediments by: (a) increasing
efficiency and competition in the sector; (b) strengthening the financial infrastructure; and
(c) putting in place an appropriate regulatory environment for the orderly evolution of a
capital market. The project would complement the proposed Structural Adjustment



16
Credit which supports the Government's parastatal reform program as well as policy
reforms in the financial sector.
lIl. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
3.1.  Obiectives.  The progress of the Financial Sector Adjustment program  was
reviewed above. The review revealed that the sector is still very weak and that the
reform agenda is far from complete. Furthermore, in 1993 there was a reversal in some
major elements of the program. Although the Government has implemented a short term
program to stem the losses in the sector, it wishes to regain the momentum for financial
sector reform by implementing a strategy which would address the fundamental
weaknesses in the sector while building the foundation for the diversification of financial
instruments. The main elements of the strategy are (by order of priority): (i) encouraging
competition in the commercial banking sector; (ii) strengthening banking regulation and
supervision; (iii) improving the payments mechanism especially in rural areas; iv)
promoting and supporting comprehensive parastatal reforms, including privatization, of
state owned enterprises; (v) developing a market for Government securities; (vi)
establishing a regulatory structure for securities and insurance markets; and (vii)
developing a corporate securities market. In this context, the primary objectives of the
project, which are articulated in the Government's Letter of Financial Policy (see Annex
1), are to develop a market-oriented financial system and to ensure the orderly and
gradual evolution of capital markets in Tanzania while supporting the privatization
process.
B.    Summary Project Descrivtion
3.2.  The scope of the project, which would be supported by a $10.9 million credit, is
described in detail below.  The proposed project would include the following
components: (i) restructuring and privatization of NBC and PBZ within an agreed
timetable; (ii) strengthening of BOT's Bank Supervision Directorate; (iii) developing a
mechanism for regulating the insurance industry; (iv) studies on possible improvements
to the payments system and the feasibility of a private credit information bureau; and (v)
technical assistance to develop an appropriate mechanism for regulating and overseeing
the evolution of a capital market, as well as appropriate vehicles for facilitating broad
based participation in the privatization program.



17
3.3.   The project would consist of three components:
(1)  The Banks Restructuring  Component would  support a strategy  for
aggressively downsizing NBC and restructuring PBZ. Support would be
provided for: (a) implementing the divestiture of at least one of NBC's urban
branch networks and establishing a joint venture subsidiary to focus on
corporate and international finance; (b) a management team for the
remaining NBC; (c) a management team for PBZ; and (d) non-resident
banking advisors to the Ministries of Finance (as the sole shareholders of
NBC, THB, TIEB and PBZ).
(2)  Financial Infrastructure Strengthening Component would support: (a) an
intensive program aimed at rapidly developing Bank Supervision in BOT;
(b) establishment of an Insurance Commission; and (c) a technical assistance
fund to finance a series of studies on improvements to the payments system
and the possible creation of a Credit Information Bureau.
(3)  The Capital Markets Development Component would support the
establishment of a Capital Markets and Securities Authority and the first
three years of operations of a Privatization Investment Fund.
Table 1: Project Components Summary
(US$ million)
Item                    Technical                  Computer &            Office
Assistance Training Studies Office Equip. Vehicles & Res. Accom. Other  Total
BANK RESTRUCTURING            4.3      0.0    0.0           0.3     0.0           1.1    0.0         5.7
NBC                           2.7      0.0    0.0           0.3     0.0           0.6    0.0         3.6
PBZ                            1.0     0.0    0.0           0.0    0.0            0.4    0.0         1.4
MOF                           0.6      0.0    0.0           0.0    0.0            0.1    0.0         0.7
FINANCIAL                     2.0      0.7    1.7           0.0    0.0            0.6    0.0         5.1
INFRASTRUCTURE
STRENGTHENING
BOT                           0.0      0.0     1.7          0.0    0.0            0.0    0.0         1.7
Bank Supervision               1.7     0.6    0.0           0.0    0.0            0.5    0.0         2.8
Insurance Commission          0.3      0.0    0.0           0.0    0.0           0.1    0.0          0.5
CAPITAL MARKETS                1.5     0.0    0.0           0.1     0.0           0.5    0.0        2.1
CapitalMarketsand             0.6      0.0    0.0           0.1     0.0           0.3    0.0        1.1
Security Authority
Privatization Trust Fund      0.8      0.0    0.0           0.0    0.0            0.2    0.0         1.0
PROJECT                       0.0      0.0    0.0           0.0     0.0           0.0    0.5         0.5
MANAGEMENTl
TOTAL                         7.8      0.7    1.7           0.4    0.1            2.3    0.5        13.4
Note: Includes contingencies. Also, totals may not add due to rounding.



18
C.    Detailed Proiect Description
Banks Restructuring ($5.6 million)
3.4   NBC  ($3.6 million).   The project would support implementation  of a
restructuring and privatization strategy for NBC.  In normal circumstances, the
appropriate prudential response to NBC's current financial position would be to stop it
from lending or taking new deposits, pending rapid action to recapitalize the bank or
liquidate it. Given the dominance of NBC in the financial sector, and the consequent
macro-economic effects of its demise, liquidation is not practical at this time. The
strategy therefore is to constrain NBC's activities as much as possible, to avoid macro-
economic instability while allowing the bank to meet the legitimate needs of the
productive sectors. NBC would be downsized, until such time as it can meet prudential
requirements and be fully privatized (or liquidated, if it is unable to compete).
Meanwhile new banks are encouraged to enter the market.
3.5.  Details of the strategy will be defined by an ongoing diagnostic evaluation of
NBC. However, the strategy's broad elements entail: (a) carving out from NBC one or
two profitable urban branch networks (each network consisting of 8 to 10 branches) for
divestiture while retaining within a partially privatized NBC a national presence in urban
areas and a strong rural branch network; (b) the possible creation of a joint venture
subsidiary of NBC (in partnership with a strong private bank with an international
network) to focus on corporate and international transactions; (c) the restructuring of the
retained NBC under new and professional management.
3.6.  A schedule of activities which constitutes the broad elements of the strategy is
attached as Annex 2. First, the diagnostic evaluation, including an updated portfolio
review, would define the strategy for restructuring NBC including recommendations for
divestiture and the disposition of the impaired assets. The Government also has recruited
three senior, experienced commercial bankers as Deputy Managing Director\Chief
Operating Officer, Director of Finance and Credit Manager in NBC. Second, a review of
the features of the strategy would occur during the diagnostic evaluation so that the
remainder of the diagnostic evaluation could concentrate on: (a) analyses of the
implementation implications for NBC; (b) rapidly outlining a strategy that will maximize
the value of the branch network(s) sale and maximize the benefit of NBC's downsizing
on the financial sector overall; and (c) getting the joint venture underway. Third, the pro
formas for the entities and/or facilities to be offered for sale would be finalized and
agreed by the Government and NBC. This would likely include the removal of some
portion of the non-performing loans to a recovery unit that would be moved to a
subsidiary for collection. The residual NBC, after charging off the loans, would be a
smaller organization and would add some urgency to the tasks of reducing head office



19
administrative costs and rationalizing the rural branch network. Fourth. terms and
conditions for the sale of urban branch network(s) and the joint venture
international/corporate subsidiary would be prepared. Sales memoranda, authority to
disclose terms and contact particular buyers would be agreed. The schedule calls for the
opening of the urban network(s) under new ownership and for the joint venture to begin
operations by October, 1995. Conditions of the credit's effectiveness include the
completion of the diagnostic evaluation with a time-bound business plan,
satisfactory to IDA, for the implementation of the downsizing and restructuring of
NBC and the appointment of a consulting firm or an investment bank to
implement the divestiture strategy.
3.7.  Implementation of the strategy required a clearer understanding of NBC's current
financial position.  The uncertainties surrounding NBC's financial situation were
described in Section II and reflect three major problems: (a) inappropriate accrual of
interest income on non-performing loans; (b) substantially higher provision requirements
for loans, other assets, and contingent liabilities; and (c) mischaracterization of certain
asset and liability accounts. Adjustments required by external auditors were made to
NBC's FY 1993/94 accounts prior to their finalization. The adjustments included
the write-off of all loans classified as loss. During negotiations, IDA received
assurances that, beginning with 1994\95, NBC will submit to IDA, annual audited
accounts within six months of the end of NBC's financial year and appropriate
adjustments will be made and all loans classified as loss will be written-off prior to
the finalization of the accounts.
3.8.  The project will finance a senior management tean in NBC for three years. The
team, which consists of a Chief Operating Officer, a Director of Finance, and a Credit
Manager, will prepare a business plan acceptable to IDA. The plan will: (i) provide for
continued credit restraint as NBC is restructured; (ii) address the significant portfolio of
non-performing assets; and (iii) aim to restructure the remaining bank into a self
sustaining and viable going concern. The plan will include time-bound performance
targets e.g. reductions in the ratio of operating costs to average total assets, increases on
the return on average total assets, reductions in the percentage of non-performing loans
in the portfolio, establishment of an appropriate loan to deposit ratio, increases on the
ratio of loan collections to scheduled collections and the adequate diversification of
credit risk. These ratios will be defined to ensure that aggregate lending could only
increase if there is a substantial strengthening of profitability and the quality of the asset
portfolio. The plan also will serve as a yardstick for prudential supervision until such
time as NBC meets prudential requirements. The management team has been
appointed with terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
3.9.  During negotiations, IDA obtained the Government's assurance that the
NBC interim business plan, including a recovery plan for the non-performing



20
loans, would be sent to IDA for approval and that NBC would be required to
adhere to the plan's performance targets. Also, assurances were obtained on the
continuation of the ceiling on NBC's overall lending as well as on lending to
parastatals until the business plan is prepared and under implementation. In
order to monitor lending to non-performing borrowers, IDA also received the
Government's assurance that NBC will submit monthly reports to BOT on
outstanding loans to large borrowers. The finalized business plan would be
furnished to IDA no later than October 31, 1995.
3.10. PBZ ($1.4 million). PBZ is the principal commercial banking institution in
Zanzibar. The recent examination of PBZ in December 1994 revealed that the bank was
insolvent and that roughly 70 per cent of its portfolio were rated substandard, doubtful or
loss. The main reasons for its poor financial status include a very weak loan portfolio
resulting from poor credit policies, a failure to previously recognize non-performing
assets (including continued interest accrual on such assets), and previous failure to
establish sufficient provisions for uncollectible loans.
3.11. Part of the difficulty experienced by the PBZ is that prior to December 1993 the
bank performed functions on behalf of the Government of Zanzibar which were not
traditionally associated with commercial banking. These included the maintenance of
substantial foreign exchange reserves on behalf of its parastatal clients who eam foreign
exchange for their exports.  Presumably, this arrangement was meant to ensure the
availability of foreign exchange when needed to cover imports. However, this hoarding
of foreign exchange resulted in unnecessary interest being paid on foreign borrowings and
a funding cost to PBZ, which had to borrow from the BOT to compensate for the non-
receipt of the T shillings counterpart. Additionally, the bank had subsidized the import of
basic food items by financing imports for sale in the local market below cost; this would
normally have been a treasury function.
3.12. The Government of Tanzania recognizes that the development of the financial
system in Zanzibar will depend critically on the restructuring of PBZ. The objective is to
convert the bank into a viable commercial bank and to transfer all non-commercial
banking activities to BOT and the Ministry of Finance in Zanzibar. Furthermore, all
services rendered to the Government would be fully paid for and priced at market rates.
The immediate aim would be to restructure PBZ and place it under private management.
The credit would finance the remuneration of two experts as General Manager and
Financial Controller for two years. Their main responsibilities will be to oversee the
restructuring of the bank. Specifically, this will include the preparation of a business
plan, the formulation of appropriate policies and operating procedures, installation of
effective internal control, the design of a marketing strategy, and the introduction of new
financial services.  During negotiations, IDA received the commitment of the
Government that: (a) a General Manager and Financial Controller, acceptable to



21
the Borrower and IDA, would be appointed to manage PBZ by October 31, 1995;
and (b) a restructuring plan would be adopted for PBZ. In addition, beginning
with 1994/1995, PBZ will submit to IDA, annual audited accounts within six
months of the end of its financial year and appropriate adjustments will be made
and all loans classified as loss will be written-off prior to the finalization of the
accounts.
3.13. Ministry of Finance. ($0.6 million) The credit would also finance the services
of up to two advisers to the Ministries of Finance on the mainland and in Zanzibar and to
the Boards of NBC, THB, TIB and PBZ within the respective ministries. The
appointment of Banking Advisors under terms of reference acceptable to IDA is a
condition of effectiveness.
Financial Infrastructure Strengthening ($4.9 million)
3.14. Bank Supervision ($2.7 million). A Bank Supervision Advisor has been
provided to BOT as part of the IM's program of technical assistance. This component
would complement the IM's technical assistance by providing focused technical
assistance to the Bank Supervision Directorate for the supervision of problem
institutions, on site examinations, methodology development, and training.
3.15. Problem Institution Supervision (US$ 0.9 million). A major role of Banking
Supervision will be to closely monitor the restructuring or liquidation of the state-owned
financial institutions. This regulatory role is a critical one to ensure these institutions are
returned to viability or liquidated in a manner which would not be disruptive to the
financial system.  While the regulator should not interfere with the commercial
transaction relating to a sale or purchase of a problem institution, its approval of the
transaction is a prerequisite to its conclusion. Also, Banking Supervision's credibility will
be greatly enhanced if it is widely viewed as integral to the resolution of problem
institutions. Hence, the project would finance consultancies to: (1) monitor the
restructuring of the five state-owned banks; (2) advise on the progress of the respective
restructuring plans; (3) assist with problem institution supervision of NBFIs and foreign
exchange bureaus; and (4) direct the design and delivery of the Problem Institution
Management (PIM) training course for all the examination staff of Banking Supervision.
3.16. On-Site Examination (US$ 0.4 million). Specialist support is required for roughly
up to one year to bring the skills of the Bank SLLpervision Directorate up to an adequate
level in all high risk areas. The main focus will be on the development of the on-site
methodology pertaining to the internal control environment. Emphasis will be placed on
the role of the Board, as well as the treasury and systems areas, including wire payments
and money laundering. The consultant(s) wouldi report directly to the Director, Banking
Supervision but will be supervised by the IMF Advisor. However, when on-site, this



22
specialist would work in a line examination role and report to the Manager, Examination
or the Examiner-in-Charge.
3.17. This expert(s) would work with the examiners to support them in risk
identification and risk mitigation. In addition, the specialist would be required to assess
risk management systems in each financial institution and provide feedback to these
institutions on their ranking relative to their peers. One output of such an exercise would
be the development of a best practices/minimum standards paper on key risk areas which
would be provided to existing institutions and to new financial institutions as a
requirement of the licensing process. In addition, this consultant(s) would be called upon
to: (1) develop the treasury and systems examination modules under the direction and
guidance of the IMF Advisor; (2) assist with the design and delivery of internal control
training programs in the high risk areas including but not limited to treasury and systems;
and (3) revisit the existing guidelines and regulations in the key risk areas, especially
relating to liquidity, interest rate risk, open market operations, as well as off-balance
sheet and off-shore operations.
3.18. Methodology ($0.8 million). The IMF Advisor is to provide technical assistance
for the development and completion of the methodology efforts of the Banking
Supervision Directorate. There are three key areas where methodology needs to be
designed, articulated and documented for use in the field. These include:
o     Off-site examination - A rudimentary system of off-site surveillance has been
developed and is in operation.  However, the reporting requirements are
incomplete, onerous and not well integrated with other information requirements
of the BOT. The banks have responded either by not reporting or by reporting
too late to have the information serve any useful purpose. Also, the information
reported is of questionable accuracy. As well the existing system does not include
early warning triggers to warn of the development of negative trends in the
industry such that corrective regulatory action can be taken.
In order to resolve the problem, the project would finance both short and long
term consultancies required for the implementation of the following three stage
program.
First, Banking Supervision with the assistance of legal and technical expertise
under the direction and coordination-ordination of the IMF Advisor, needs to
review the current laws, regulations and guidelines in order to ensure all major
areas of risk are well addressed by the regulatory framework.
Second, once this review has been completed, the regulatory reporting
requirements can be amended, updated and refined, as necessary. Also, the



23
National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA), will be commissioned to
upgrade the accounting and disclosure requirements for financial institutions. It is
well recognized by BOT that consultation with the industry during this process
will be critical to improving the level, quality and timeliness of the revised
regulatory reporting. The IMF Advisor will be responsible for coordinating the
NBAA project, the results of the regulatory review exercise and the results of the
interface between Banking Supervision, the industry and NBAA.  Banking
Supervision will devote the part-time assistance of at least one member from each
of its Financial Analysis and On-site Examination teams to promote the
consultative role with the industry and to ensure the IMF Advisor, specialists, and
the NBAA project team have adequate practical feedback from the actual users of
the data.
Third, following the regulatory reporting refinement exercise,   Banking
Supervision needs to develop a data base to store the data from the regulatory
filings, to display and compute the necessary financial data and ratios for use by
its examiners and analysts in their examination and surveillance roles, as well as
provide an early warning system for the Director of Banking Supervision and the
BOT of the trends developing in the industry and/or a specific peer group. The
development of the data base for the, weekly, monthly and quarterly monitoring
activities of the Banking Supervision Department is to be funded outside of the
scope of this project.
o     On-site examination - Some of this work has already been developed, albeit in a
piecemeal fashion. It now needs to be brought together in a usable modular form
for the examiners to apply during their annual examinations. Funding for this
component was to have been provided by USAID. The timing of this USAID
support is now uncertain, and in the event it does not materialize, the
consultant(s), under the guidance of the IMF Advisor, will undertake this on-site
methodology role, in addition to the off-site and legal framework components
with the assistance of the specialists noted above, who will be charged with
reviewing and developing adequate methodology and modules in their areas of
expertise.
o     Ladders of Compliance - The Banking Act, Regulations and Guidelines gives
Banking Supervision enforcement powers necessary to protect depositors' funds
and cement their role in guarding the safety and soundness of the financial system.
The project will finance the completion of guidelines on the application of these
powers, the circumstances, and the legal, accounting or other constraints. It is
envisaged that this work would be spearheaded by the IMF Advisor Specialist and
enlist the expertise of consultants, including the Restructuring and Internal



24
Control Consultants in designing practical, transparent and consistent responses
to areas of non-compliance with the Act and/or Regulations/Guidelines.
3.19. Training ($0.6 million). Much of the required training will be on-the-job. In
addition, it is proposed that as the new methodology is developed, the resulting
examination modules would be introduced in an internal training session, following which
these would be utilized in the on-site examination process. On-the-job training will be
supplemented by courses in the major risk areas. Annex 4 details the types of courses,
the skills to be developed, the duration and estimated cost. The majority of the training
will be in Tanzania and will be provided by local consultants, with expatriate assistance
only if local consultants cannot be found. In addition, the majority of the foreign training
relates to short term assignments in other regulatory agencies to broaden the exposure of
the on and off-site examiners to other complimentary regulatory jurisdictions.  All
training courses are designed for Banking Supervision personnel but will be promoted to
the financial system at large to encourage widespread participation of bankers and
financial institution personnel and management.
3.20. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms of reference and
work program for the consultants required for this component. Additionally, the
Government has agreed to provide for IDA's review and comment by October 31,
1995 and thereafter by September 30 in each year commencing 1996, annual
reports on the status of all financial institutions with action plans for the problem
institutions. The action plans will include a timetable for reaching regulatory
targets.
3.21. Insurance Regulations. ($0.5 million) The insurance sector consists of the
government owned National Insurance Corporation (NIC) and Zanzibar Investment
Corporation (ZIC).  The distribution system  includes 26 NIC  branches located
throughout the country, approximately 400 privately owned agents of which 260 are
active, one broker which is wholly owned by NIC, and various privately owned loss
adjuster services, etc. There is no domestic reinsurance market. NIC cedes directly to
the international market via one foreign broker. Reinsurance as a percent of gross
written premium, has decreased each year since its high of almost 35 per cent in 1981.
In 1991, it was approximately 21 per cent.
3.22. A new insurance act was recently drafted. The Act provides the framework for
the entry of private participants into the Tanzanian insurance market, based on objective,
minimal but prudent requirements. In addition, for the first time, the legislation provides
for prudent regulation of the industry to promote on-going confidence in the system.
The Govemment intends to establish a supervisory authority (an Insurance Commission).
The Commission would develop a supervisory methodology and policy framework,
including the drafting of regulatory guidelines and the supporting accounting principles



25
and standards to be adopted by the industry to meet the legislative requirements. In
addition, and concurrent with this activity, the Government intends to address the dearth
of actuarial expertise in Tanzania which is required to support the development of the
sector.
3.23. This component will finance a technical advisor for a period of up to two
years. The advisor will be required to:
*   draft  prudential regulations  for  licensing, regulating  and
supervising insurance companies. The regulations would establish
prudential controls and limits, such as exposure limits, capital
adequacy guidelines, and controls on related parties and enforce
corrective measures with specific guidance on dealing with
troubled institutions.
*  develop an implementation plan for the prudential regulations with
specific targets and time parameters to ensure that compliance is
achieved within the phase-in period,
*  develop a plan for the establishment of the Commission,
addressing staffing and training requirements;
*  review and recommend changes to other legislation affecting the
insurance industry to ensure harmony among the various acts.
Such acts include but are not limited to the Companies Ordinance
Act and the Tax Act.
3.24. The Advisor would reside in Tanzania and assist the Commissioner with the
design and implementation of supervisory functions.  During negotiations, the
Government agreed to submit to IDA by December 31, 1995 for review and
comments, the work plan for the establishment of the Commission, including
details of the resource requirements (e.g., size, scope, staffing, technology, etc.)
3.25. Studies Fund.($1.7 million).   The project will finance studies for the
development of a national payments system and a Credit Information Bureau.
3.26. Payments and Clearing System ($1.5 million). The effective functioning of a
financial system depends on the efficiency with which financial transactions are carried
out. An inefficient payments system hinders economic growth and is a binding constraint
to domestic and foreign trade.  Specifically, a well-functioning payment system  is
essential to the development of interbank money markets and securities markets.



26
3.27. The present system of clearing payments in Tanzania is essentially a document
clearing system which depends upon physical transport of documents and therefore on
existing mail and transport systems. As such, while marginal improvements to the
system can be made, substantial improvements are unlikely. An alternative clearing
system would be one where the information content of the document is exchanged,
rather than the physical document, and would be based on telecommunications.
Although this alternative requires high-quality telecommunications to function efficiently,
it is possible to begin to develop such a system even with the relatively lower quality of
telecommunications currently available in Tanzania.
3.28. The study will be conducted in two phases. The first phase would collect and
analyze data about the payment traffic in Tanzania, assess the related institutional, legal
and financial infrastructure, estimate the costs of transactions, and generate realistic
projections of the transacting environment 5 years hence. The second phase would be
the design of improvements to the national payments system including an assessment of
the feasibility of the electronic exchange of data. The study's TORs would emphasize
common guiding principles including: (a) universality of access; (b) cost efficiency and
self financing through cost recovery; (c) integrity and reliability; (d) the minimization of
payment system risk; and (e) the involvement of major participants in the design of the
system. The master design study would make recommendations on the appropriate
division of labor between BOT and commercial banks with respect to the operations of
the system, and the extent to which operational resiliency needs to be built into the
payment system.
3.29. Credit Information Bureau ($0.2 million). There is no formal mechanism in
Tanzania for the sharing of credit information. Prior to the financial reform program,
when the market was dominated by Government-owned banks and when there were few
private borrowers, there was no demand nor need for it. The opening of the financial
sector to private banks will increase the demand for reliable financial and credit data over
time. Conversely, the lack of reliable financial information is a major deterrent to new
banks and to the development of the financial sector and capital markets.
3.30. This component will finance a feasibility study to determine: (i) if there is a
potential market for a credit information bureau in Tanzania; and (ii) if so, whether it
could become self-sustaining within a three year time frame. Specifically, the study will
be undertaken in two phases. The first phase would:
o     assess the readiness of private and state-owned companies and financial
institutions to participate in such an agency on a structured fee basis;
o     assess whether there is enough capacity in the market to support such an agency.



27
o     review potential ownership/membership structures;
o     review the legal framework and identify impediments and required changes;
o     cost justify (or not) the establishment of an agency; and
o     identify technical and other assistance requirements, including educating
participants, both banks and borrowers, on the value and use of such a vehicle.
3.31. The second phase would be contingent upon the outcome of the feasibility study
and would entail the preparation of a detailed five year business plan including a
recommendation for the ownership structure.
3.32. Agreement on the terms of reference for the studies were reached during
negotiations.
Capital Market ($2.1 million)
3.33. The impetus for capital market development stems from the financing needs of the
private sector and the Government's objective of broad-based ownership of privatized
enterprises. The recorded pipeline of private investment projects has grown steadily on
the strength of Tanzania's economic reform program. Loan applications to the local and
external DFIs have grown substantially. However, disbursements have been modest
partly because of the inability of local investors to satisfy the related equity requirements.
The limited supply of medium-term credit and outside equity financing is a widely-
perceived constraint to the further growth of the private sector. The Government's
perception also is that the privatization program has been hampered by the absence of a
developed capital market which would enable broad participation in the program. The
Government has retained shares (ranging from 20 per cent to 50 per cent) in many of the
parastatals which have been privatized; the aim is to divest these shares to the public
when appropriate mechanisms for doing so have been developed.
3.34. Capital Markets and Securities Authority ($1.1 million). The Government
recognizes that a capital market requires certain pre-conditions for its successful
operation. These include Macro-economic stability, low inflation, public confidence in
the economic and political environment, a sound banking system, and adequate
accounting standards. Many of these conditions do not exist in Tanzania, and their
attainment will not be quick. Consequently, the Government has elected to adopt a
gradual approach to the development of capital markets. To this end, in January 1994
the Parliament approved a Capital Markets and Securities Act to promote the gradual
development of an efficient and fair capital market in Tanzania. The Act envisages the



28
creation of an Authority to oversee the securities market. Initially, the focus will be on
the development of a simple over-the-counter (OTC) dealer market in securities.
3.35. The project will provide technical assistance to promote the development of a
capital market keeping in mind the Government's preference for a simple and
evolutionary approach. Specifically, assistance would be provided for:
the drafting and completion of a core set of enabling regulations;
an external advisor to provide regular assistance over the course of two years to
the Authority on a wide variety of regulatory and market development matters;
basic training of would-be stock brokers;
basic publicity and educational program  for the general public, including
nationwide distribution of information;
technical assistance to complete the first public issue including design of
distribution procedures, determination of offer prices, determination of
allotment procedures; provision of short 1-2 hour training sessions for
personnel nationwide on how to handle the public issue, supervision of the
allotment processing and so forth);
the preparation of a stock exchange blueprint and item-by-item action plan
together with donor funding requests for start-up costs.
3.36. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Borrower would
furnish to IDA an annual work program and budget for the Authority by October
31, 1995 and thereafter by September 30 in each year commencing in 1996. IDA
also received assurance of the Government that they would retain a Chief
Executive Officer, with qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to
IDA, during the term of the project.
3.37. Privatization Trust Fund ($1.0 million) This component would also provide
funding for the establishment, on a pilot basis, and management of the first three years of
the Privatization Trust Fund (PTF). The Government intends to establish the PTF
mainly to broaden local participation in the privatization program. The Government
would transfer retained shares of privatized parastatals to the Trust in exchange for a
deferred payment and, upon successful disposition of an asset, the Government would be
paid. Blocks of shares could be broad'y distributed to the public through coUlective
instruments ( Unit Trust/Mutual Fund) or Stock Exchange.



29
3.38. The PTF would be established for a period of five years by a Trust Deed. Its day
to day operations will be carried out by a private management company with access to
merchant banking expertise. The company's remuneration would be a combination of
fixed and performance related fees.
3.39. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the draft management
contract for the managers of the PTF and that the Borrower would ensure selection
of a management team by December 31, 1995.
D.    Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
3.40. Costs. Table 2 provides estimates of the project total costs. The estimates are
based on the costs of recruiting consultants for similar activities in Tanzania. These costs
include price contingencies of US$0.3 million (2 per cent of base costs) which were based
on projected international inflation rates of 2.0 per cent for 1995, 2.5 per cent for 1996,
2.7 per cent for 1997 and 2.5 per cent for 1998. Base costs have been estimated as of
August 31, 1994. It is assumed that the exchange rate will vary during the period to
adjust for the difference between local and foreign inflation. Estimates are based on
projected exchange rates (per US$) of Tsh 538 in 1995, Tsh 558 in 1996, Tsh 568 in
1997 and Tsh 571 in 1998. The first project year is assumed to run from July 1, 1995 to
June 30, 1996, and the completion date is expected to be September 30, 1998. The
costs exclude taxes and duties.
TABLE 2: ESTIMATED TOTAL PROJECT COST
Millions of TSh            Millions of US$   Foreign as
Local    Foreign    Total     Local  Foreign   Total   % of Total
Bank Restructurina                    876.0   2.219.6   3,095.6    1.6       4.0    5.6         72%
NBC                                   612.7    1,350.2   1,962.9    1.1      2.4    3.6         69%
PBZ                                   218.6     556.4    775.0    0.4        1.0    1.4         72%
MOF                                    44.7     313.0    357.7    0.1        0.6    0.6         88%
Financial Infrastructure Strengthening  1037.3   1,693.1   2,730.4    1.9    3.1    4.9         62%
Bank Supervision                      386.4    1,130.6   1,517.1    0.7      2.0    2.7         75%
Insurance                              71.2     203.7     274.9    0.1       0.4    0.5         74%
Studies Fund                          579.6     358.8     938.4    1.1       0.7    1.7         38%
Capital Markets                       284.8     874.3   1,159.1    0.5       1.6    2.1         75%
Capital Markets Securities Authority  174.4     432.7    607.1    0.3        0.8    1.1         71%
PTF                                   110.4     441.6    552.0    0.2        0.8     1.0        80%
Proiect Management                    245.6       0.0    245.6    0.4        0.0    0.4          0%
Base Cost                           2,443.8   4,787.0   7,230.8    4.4       8.7   13.1         66%
Contingencies                          58.0 1   110.8     168.8    0.1       0.2    0.3         66%
Total                                2,501.7   4,897.8   7,399.5    4.5      8.9   13.4         66%
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



30
3.41. Financing. The proposed financing plan for the project is summarized in Table 3.
Govemment financing would pay for incremental costs including the costs of providing
facilities for training and a proportion of the costs of goods purchased locally. All project
financing would be passed on to beneficiary project institutions as grants from the
Government of Tanzania.
TABLE 3: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign    Total    % of Cost
IDA          1.9       8.9      10.9        81%
Government      2.6       0.0       2.6        19%
Total        4.5       8.9      13.4        100%
Note: Includes contingencies. Also, totals may not add due to rounding.
3.42. Government Counterpart Funds. The proposed IDA credit of $10.9 million
would finance 90 per cent of the project's costs net of taxes and duties.  The
Government's contribution will be provided partly by the Ministry of Finance and partly
by BOT. The proposed project has been designated a core investment project and
finding for the Government's share will be budgeted annually.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Implementation Arraneeements
4.1.   The United Republic of Tanzania would be the Borrower (represented by the
Ministry of Finance) and the project executing agency would be the Bank of Tanzania.
The Bank of Tanzania would manage the program, coordinate its implementation, and
monitor its progress. The Director of the Financial Markets Directorate in the Bank of
Tanzania would be responsible for: (i) administering project funding and procurement
processing (including the employment of consultants) and managing the Project Accounts
and the Special Account; (ii) overseeing project implementation activities by various
institutions and coordinating activities; (iii) following up on the agreed conditionalities
and financial provisions and proposing any necessary adjustments and amendments to
implementation: (iv) providing periodic project progress reports; and (v) acting as the
focal point of contacts between the Government of Tanzania and IDA during the project
implementation period. The Financial Markets Directorate managed adequately the
technical assistance component of FSAC. However, its performance will be reviewed on
an on-going basis and adjustments, in terms of personnel, will be made by BOT if
necessary.



31
4.2.   Although BOT would assume day-to-day responsibility for implementation, the
Ministries of Finance, as the shareholders of NBC/TIB/THB and PBZ respectively, will
bear ultimate responsibility for the restructuring of these institutions.  Given the
complexity of the issues involved, an experienced commercial banker will be recruited to
advise both Ministries on the overall progress of the program. On the mainland, the
Advisors would report to the Ministry of Finance and work closely with the Parastatal
Sector Reform Commission. Issues raised by the Advisors would then be discussed by
the respective ministries during meetings of the Boards of Directors. The Advisors
would not be expected to reside in Tanzania but would be contracted to visit three times
per year. This arrangement will be reviewed as the project is supervised and will be
amended, if necessary. The terms of reference for the advisors were agreed during
negotiations.
4.3.   BOT  will organize a project launch workshop shortly after the Board
presentation. The workshop would be intended to acquaint the project's beneficiaries
with the implementation arrangements.
B.    Procurement
4.4.  Procurement of goods and services would be implemented in accordance with
relevant World Bank Guidelines. For all contracts under Intemational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and internationally recruited consultants the Bank's standard bidding and
contract documents will be used.  Goods would include vehicles, computers, and
computer software, office furniture and equipment for a total value of $0.4 million
equivalent including contingencies. Goods amounting to roughly $0.2 million, mainly
consisting of personal computers for some of NBC's rural branches, would be grouped
into minimum packages of roughly US$100,000 each to be procured through ICB.
Where ICB procedures are used, a preferential margin of 15 per cent, or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f prices of competing goods would be given
to domestic manufacturers in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.  Vehicles,
amounting to roughly $0.1 million, would be purchased in accordance with local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Items or groups of items for goods which cannot
be packaged in contracts larger than $50,000 (mainly office equipment and supplies)
would be purchased on the basis of prudent international and \or local shopping based on
price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers. The total value of goods
to be procured through prudent shopping procedures would not exceed an aggregate
amount of $100,000.
4.5.  Consultants, financed by IDA, totaling $10 million equivalent would be
contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants issued in
August 1981.  Consultancy services would include experts in commercial bank



32
management and restructuring - two highly specialized fields. Other consultants would
be recruited for training activities and the preparation of manuals.
4.6.   Procurement Review. All contracts for goods procured under ICB would be
subject to IDA prior review procedures. All other contracts less than $100,000 each
would be subject to IDA post review procedures. All consultancy contracts, with firms,
valued at the equivalent of $50,000 or more will be subject to IDA prior review
procedures. Prior review procedures would apply regardless of the value of the contracts
with respect to terms of reference, single source contracts, critical assignments, and
contract amendments valued at more than $50,000 or that raise total contract value
above $50,000 equivalent. In addition, an understanding was reached that before the first
contract below $50,000 is awarded, IDA would still review all stages of the consultants'
contract. For individual consultants, all contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review.
GOT would promptly report on contract awards and furnish to IDA quarterly reports
giving updated information on bidding packages and contracting. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the borrower would apply the procurement
procedures outlined  above.  Also, during  negotiations standard  procurement
processing time was agreed with the borrower and incorporated in the
implementation schedule. Finalization of Standard Bidding Documents for critical
contracts was a condition of Board Presentation. Table 4 summarizes the proposed
procurement arrangements.
Table 4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Total
ICB     LCB    Other   Cost
Goods
Vehicles                       0.1             0.1
(0.1)          (0.1)
Computers & Office Equip. 0.2          0.2     0.4
(0.2)          (0.2)   (0.4)
Consultancies
Technical Assistance                   10.1    10.1
(8.3)   (8.3)
Studies                                1.7     1.7
(1.5)   (1.5)
Trainin                                0.7     0.7
(0.7)   (0.7).
Incremental Operating                  0.5     0.5
Costs                                  (0.0)   (0. 0)
Total Costs            0.2     0.1    13.2    13.4
|IDA Financed          (0.2)   (0.1)   (10.7)  (10.9)
Note: Totals do not add due to rounding.



33
C.    Disbursements
4.7.   The proposed project is expected to be implemented in four years and to be
completed by December 1998.  The official closing date will be June 30, 1999.
Disbursements of IDA funds would be made against major categories as shown in Table
5. To facilitate timely project implementation, it is proposed that the borrower establish,
maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA a Special Account
in US dollars with an authorized allocation of US$250,000 in a bank acceptable to IDA.
This allocation represents four months of projected expenditures. The Special Account
will be replenished on a timely basis either when the balance of the Special Account is
half of the initial deposit or on a one to three month basis, whichever occurs earlier. All
IDA disbursements should be channeled through the Special Account except for large
payments (10% of the value of the initial deposit) which would cause it to be significantly
depleted and would be submitted directly for processing outside of the Special Account.
Table 5: Disbursement Categories
US$ Million  Proposed Disbursement
Equipment, vehicles and     0.5    100% foreign and 75% local
computers.
Training                    0.7    100%
Technical Assistance        7.0     80%
Studies                     1.5     80%
Refund of PPF               0.8
Unallocated                 0.4
TOTAL                      10.9
4.8.   Disbursements for all IDA financed expenditures under the project would be
made against full documentation except as outlined below. Reimbursement of eligible
expenditures in both local and foreign currency would be made solely on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs) in respect of contracts for goods valued for less than
$100,000 equivalent, consulting services for firms valued for less than $50,000 and all
local training and study programs. All documentation related to such expenditures would
be retained by the Borrower for IDA review during project supervision.
D.    Auditing and Reporting Requirements
4.9.   BOT will maintain records of all transactions under the Credit in accordance with
sound accounting practices. No later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, all
accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable IDA and submitted to the
Association. Audit reports will include a separate opinion with regard to the claims
submitted to IDA on the basis of SOEs and would state whether the claims were made in
accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Government would document



34
local cost contributions within the Credit's financial control procedures for appropriate
auditing.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the borrower would
implement the provisions described above with regard to project accounting and
auditing. The borrower also is required to submit annually the audited accounts of
NBC and PBZ within six months of the end of each bank's financial year.
E.    The Role of Technical Assistance
4.10  Attempts would be made to recruit resident and non-resident Tanzanians as well
as nationals of other African countries for the consultancies financed under the proposed
credit.  Nevertheless, the TORs for all consultants would require consultants to
progressively transfer their knowledge, know how and responsibilities to their local
counterparts. Because of the highly specialized and complex nature of the tasks involved,
the majority of the technical assistance will be long term. In some cases, a two year
resident contract would be followed by a one year non-resident contract. All contracts
would be performance based and the incumbents would be evaluated against identified
monitorable indicators. A part of the remuneration under the management contracts for
NBC and the PTF would be related to the financial performance of both institutions.
Draft TORs for all consultancies are included in Annex 7.
4.11  The bulk of the training program will be targeted to Bank Supervision in BOT,
however, financial sector personnel and management will be encouraged to attend. A
detailed program is included in Annex 3. All training would be in country although it is
envisaged that foreign trainers would be brought in to deliver and/or assist the resident
consultants with the courses. This is necessary because of the lack of bank restructuring
experts in Tanzania. There is also a small provision in the training budget to fund
exposure for select supervision personnel in other compatible regulatory agencies e.g.
USA and South Africa.
F.    Supervision
4.12. IDA supervision missions would be staffed to facilitate a transfer of know-how in
the complex areas addressed by the project. Consequently, the supervision requirements
would be higher than normal technical assistance projects and it is envisaged that IDA
would field three supervision missions per year. In addition, the Resident Mission, which
would play a lead role in assisting the Government with the formulation of a rural
banking strategy, would be expected to play a major role in supervision. A joint IDA-
Government mid-term review of the project would be conducted about 20 months into
the project (approximately March, 1997) as a basis for determining implementation
progress and mid-course adjustments, if necessary.



35
G.   Environmental ImDact
4.13 Category C. The project would have no adverse impact on the environment.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits.
5.1. The project will address a major market imperfection by supporting a strategy for
aggressively reducing the market share of the Government owned banks, thereby placing
the issue of privatization within the context of an appropriate competition policy for the
sector. Increased competition would improve the quality of banking services. This,
coupled with improvements to the financial infrastructure, should lower the costs of
financial intermediation while facilitating overall economic management. Also, stronger
bank supervision will help build public confidence and mobilize savings. The financial
sector would thus stimulate, as opposed to retard, economic growth. The project also
would address a Government concern about the need for broad based participation in the
privatization effort by creating the appropriate regulatory environment for capital market
instruments.
B.    Risks.
5.2.  The project is designed to mitigate the major risk to NBC's successful
restructuring: a reversal of Government's stated commitment to the bank's
commercialization. Consequently, the actions required for the significant downsizing of
NBC are all either up front or very early in the project's implementation. In addition,
NBC's management would be required to adhere to strict performance targets.
Conversely, the aggressive downsizing of NBC could result in the rapid entry of new
banks to fill the void and could stretch the limited capacity of Bank Supervision. The
extensive amount of technical assistance provided under the credit to Bank Supervision is
meant to reduce this risk.
5.3.  Another risk addressed by the project stems from the rapid opening up of
Tanzania's capital market in the absence of an appropriate regulatory framework. The
project would support the gradual evolution of the capital market while putting in place
an appropriate regulatory framework.
5.4.  Finally, despite  the  technical assistance  provided  under the  project,
implementation could suffer from a lack of capacity within Tanzania to address the
project's complex issues. In addition to regular supervision visits, IDA staff, including
staff at the Resident Mission, will liaise closely with Government officials during the
project's implementation.



36
VI. AGREEMENTS AND ASSURANCES
6.1   The conditions of effectiveness would be:
a.    Completion of the diagnostic evaluation of NBC and a time-bound action
plan (including an interim business plan and a recovery plan for NBC's top
50 non-performing loans), satisfactory to IDA for the downsizing and
restructuring of NBC (para 3.6);
b.    Appointment of consultants to implement the fourth element of the
divestiture strategy on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to IDA
(para 3.6);
c.    Contracting of the Banking Advisors under terms of reference acceptable
to IDA (para 3.13).
6.2   The following assurances also were received during negotiations:
a.    Government will implement the program  described in the Letter of
Financial Policy (para 3.1);
b.    NBC. The NBC divestiture strategy, including the divestiture of at least
one urban branch network and the identification of a joint venture partner
for the coporate subsidiary, will be completed by October 31, 1995 (para
3.6);
c.    Beginning with 1994\1995, NBC will submit annual audited accounts
within six months of the end of NBC's financial year and appropriate
adjustments will be made and all loans classified as loss will be written-off
prior to the finalization of the accounts (para 3.7);
d.    A final business plan would be furnished to IDA, no later than October 31,
1995 and thereafter NBC would abide by the business plan's performance
targets; and the ceiling on NBC's overall lending as well as on lending to
parastatals would remain until the plan is finalized (para 3.9);
e.    NBC will submit monthly reports to BOT on outstanding loans to large
borrowers (para 3.9);
f.    PBZ.  A General Manager and Financial Controller, with terms of
reference and with qualifications acceptable to the Borrower and IDA,



37
would be appointed by October 31, 1995 and the Borrower would ensure
that the restructuring plan would be implemented (para 3.12);
g.    Beginning with 1994/1995, PBZ will submit annual audited accounts
within six months of the end of its financial year and appropriate
adjustments will be made and all loans classified as loss will be written-off
prior to the finalization of the accounts (para 3.12);
h.    Bank Supervision. The annual work program for 1995/1996 for the
Bank Supervision Directorate, including terms of reference and work
program for the consultants required for this component, would be
submitted for IDA's review and comments by October 31, 1995; the
annual work programs for the following years (beginning with 1996) will
be submitted for IDA's review and comments by March 31 in each year
(para 3.20);
i.    The submission by October 31, 1995, for IDA's review and comments, of
a report on the status of all financial institutions with action plans for the
problem institutions; and an annual report on the status of all financial
institutions by September 30 in each year commencing. The action plans
would include a timetable for reaching regulatory targets (para 3.20);
Insurance.   The submission for IDA's review  and comments, by
December 31, 1995 of the work plan for the establishment of the
Commission, including details of the resource requirements (e.g., size,
scope, staffing, technology, etc.) (para 3.24);
k.    Capital Markets. Agreement is to be reached on the 1996 annual work
program and budget for the Authority by October 31, 1995. The annual
work programs for the following years (beginning with 1996) will be
submitted for IDA's review and comments by September 30 for the year
next following each such year. A CEO with qualifications and under
TORs acceptable to IDA is to be maintained during the term of the
project. (para 3.36);
1.    PTF. Draft management contract and the selection of a management
team acceptable to IDA is to be completed by December 31, 1995 (para
3.39);
6.3   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR7.5 million (US$10.9 million) on standard IDA
terms.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
TE TAsv-Y,
P.O. Box 9111.
u Ls SA.LA.-
THE UNIIED RPUBLIC O? TA-LZAA
THE MINSTSU FOR FLs,VsCS
Ref No: TYC,C.'380 30                            23th Februar. 1995
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street. N.W.
Washinaton. D.C. 20433
United States of Amenica
Dear Mr. Preston.
RE:- FINA _NCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMEUNT PROJECT
LETTER OF FIN-kNCLAL POLICY
Recognizing the vital importance of ensuring the effective mobilization
and allocation of capital through the use of efficient financial svstems. the
Government of Tanzania initiated the financial sector reform program in
1991 with the support of an IDA credit for financial sector adjustment
(FSAC). The program included the development of a money mark-et and
indirect methods of monetary policv controL passage of new banking laws
and prudential rezulations. the creation of a competitive environment and the
introduction of private participation in the banking sector. restructuring of
the three government-owned commercial banks. and initial steps to promote
the emergence of a capital market in Tanzania through the enactment of the
Capital Markets and Securities Act. The Government is satisfied that the
prooram has been successful in deregulating and liberalizing the banking
system. We now have a financial svstem in which the basic legislation and
regulations necessarv for a market-oriented financial infrastructure are in
place. and monev and foreign exchange markets are emer2ins where both
interest rates and exchange rates are deter-mined by market forces. However.
we realize that the financial sector is still verv weak and the reform agenda is
far from complete. Although the reforrn prosram has opened Tanzania s



39
Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
financial sector to private participaits. the government-owned banlks still
domiiinate the sector. Furthermiiore. the pace of their restruLICtUring lhas been
slower than expected and the banks remaini undercapitalized and illiquid.
T'he payments system remiiainis very rudimienitary and inefficieit, and there
are no financial instruments and mlarkets to satisfN thle demianid lor term
financing. On the regulatory side, althougl thiere has been improvements in
Bank Supervisioni. this functioni remainis weak andincapable of overseeing
the complex banlk restructuring programs as well as the expansioni of the
sector.
The Government realizes that the development of a market oriented
financial system is a complex process wvhich will require sustained efforts
over many years and it wishes to reaffirm its commitmenit to the attainmenit
of an efficient financial system whiciI is competitive and which operates on
sound commercial principles. To achieve this objective and to regain the
momentum for financial sector reform. the Govenimenit is implementinga a
strategy which would address the renainiin v weaknesses in thie sector while
building the foundation for the diversification of financial instruments. Tlhe
main elements of the strategy are: 1) encouraging competition in the
commercial banking sector. 2) strengtlheniitng banking rezulation and
supervision; 3) improving the payments mechaniismii in the country; 4)
implementing comprehensive parastatal reforms. including privatization. of
state owned enterprises; 5) developing a market for Government securiLies 6)
establishing a regulatorv structure for securities and insuranice markets, and
7) developing a corporate securities market.
ENCOURAGING BANKING COMPETITION
_ -  The Government is committed to allowing banking institutons to
operate free from governmient intervention witlhin the norms of prudenitial
regulation. The Government intends to foster competition and improve
efficiency in the banking sector by continuing to encourage the entry of
private and foreign financial institutions. and by reducinig the size and
diversifving the ownership of government owned banks. This
encouragement to new entranits. however. will be based on a rigorouls and
transparenit licensing process which complemenits the Government's vision
for a safe and sound financial sector.



40
Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
Our aim is to ensure that the financial sector is capable of meeting the
credit and investment needs of a broad range of customers. New banks have
tended to remain in Dar Es Salaam and have been very selective both in
terms of the breadth of their client base and their product lines.
Consequently. the eXisting concentration in the banking sector is undesirable
and is not conducive to the development of the sector.
We, therefore. wish to reafiirm our commitment to increased
competition in the banking sector through the down sizing of National Bank
of Commerce (NBC). We have explored many options and our preferred
course of action includes a staged approach to reduce NBC's domination of
the sector. This would include implementation of a divestiture strategy for
NBC, including: (a) the divestiture of at least one urban branch network
based on the diagnostic evaluation; (b) the strengthening and reorganization
of NBC and its operations under professional management (c) the
establishment of a joint venture corporate subsidiary between NBC and a
major international banking partner to enable NBC to compete with its
counterparts in the market, and (d) developing a plan for addressing NCB's
impaired loan portfolio.
A number of organizational and operational changes have been
implemented within NBC. The Bank was recapitalized in 1993 by a
government bond. The Board of Directors was reconstituted at the end of
March 1994. A total of 23 loss-making branches have been closed and
roughly 2,800 staff have been retrenched. Lending to non-performing
borrowers has stopped and an overall ceiling has been imposed. This ceiling
will continue until NBC's Restructuring Plan is complete and measurable
rcontrol targets are instituted. The NBC Act has been amended to clear the
way for the bank's privatization. With the support of the proposed Financial
Institutions Development Project (FIDP), a privatization strategy will be
adopted and following completion of the diagnostic study., a detailed
timetable will be drawn up by the Board to implement the divestiture
strategy. However, the Government intends to complete this aspect of
NBC s divestiture by September 1995. In the meantime. a number of
qualified commercial bankers will be recruited for. at a minimum. the kev
line management positions of Chief Operating Officer. Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer. and the senior credit risk management role at NBC.
It is the intention that these newly-recruited managers will bring about a
change in the culture of NBC and improve its operational efficiencv. Once



41
Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
installed, this management team will be mandated with the development of
the Restructuring Plan, includina a recovery for the non performing loans, to
ensure that NBC attains self-sustainabilitv. Should NBC fail to improve its
operational efficiency and continue to make losses, however, the
Government is no longer prepared to recapitalize it. In order to meet capital
adequacy requirements, the bank will have to eithet reduce its asset base
through sales or look for additional equity capital from other sources. A
restructured NBC will operate solely on a commercial basis.
While addressing the future strategy of NBC, the Government is very
cognizant of the importance of rural finance to the economic and social
development of Tanzania. Consequently, the Government is committed to
maintaining a banking presence in the rural areas, and will strive to develop
mechanisms to ensure financial services are supplied on a national basis.
The Government would also like to restate its commitment to the
privatization of CRDB, and to the objective of CRDB meeting prudential
standards. The CRDB management is working closely with DANIDA and
committing significant effort to its restructuring program and loan recovery.
It is understood, however, that the restructuring process cannot go on forever
and consequently, we have established May 1995 as the date by which
CRDB will complete its restructuring program and meet the capital
adequacy standards. Until such time as its recapitalization prozram is
complete, CRDB will freeze all lending. Should the bank's eventual viability
prove to be unsustainable by June 1995 and the bank is unable to statisfy
the normal prudential requirements by this time, the authorities will revoke
CRDB's provisional bank-ing license.
The complex and difficult restructuring programs will require a highly
competent and capable banking supervision function. The Banking and
Financial Institutions Act of 1991 strengthened BOT's supervision authority
and. in November 1992, banking supervision was elevated to the status of
Directorate and staffing levels were increased. However, the technical
abilities and staffing levels of the Directorate of Bank Supervision (DBS) at
BOT. at present. are insufficient to meet the requirements of a market
oriented financial system. The Directorate needs to improve substantially if
it is to perform its functions properly as one of the architects of the emerging
financial svstem. The Government, therefore, assigns a high priority to the
strengthening of the capacitv of BOT to supervise the financial systern. The



42
Annex 1
Page S of 7
govemment would also like to restate its full support to DBS in its effort to
make greater use of its enforcement powers. including the ability to impose
penalties and issue cease and desist orders as well as the abilit; to remove
bank management as necessary.
DEVELOPING CAPITAL MARKETS
In order to address the financing needs of the private sector and to
promote broad-based ownership of privatized enterprises, the Government
intends to facilitate the development of capital markets in Tanzania.
Although the recorded pipeline of private investment projects has grown
steadilv since the start of the economic reform program, there has been only
modest disbursement by local and external DFIs and foreign investors. The
limited supply of medium-term credit and outside equity financing is a
widelv-perceived constraint to the further growth of the private sector.
Furthermore, the Government wishes to make use of the capital markets to
promote broad participation in the parastatals privatization program. In the
absence of a formal capital markets, the Government has retained shares
(ranging from 20% to 50%) in many of the parastatals which have been
privatized. But the Government intends to divest these shares to the public
when appropriate mechanisms for doing so have been developed.
The Government recognizes that capital market development requires
certain pre-conditions. These include macroeconomic stability, low inflation,
public confidence in the economy and political environment, a sound
banking systern, an efficient pavments system. adequate accounting
standards and investor sophistication. Many of these conditions are not met
in Tanzania at the current time. Achieving these conditions will iot be
quick, and in fact, only some of these issues are within the government's
direct power to deliver. What the government can do is to provide an
adequate regulatory environment which is conducive to the emergence of a
capital market. On the one hand. the Government is committed to
maintaining macroeconomic stability throuzh stringent fiscal discipline and
prudent monetarv policy, and on the other hand, the Government will
facilitate the co-operation between the relevant parties to create the
necessary market infrastructure and enactment of legislation and re2ulations.
For instance. Bank of Tanzania will take the lead and co-ordinate between
commercial banks to improve our payments system. In terms of building up
an approprinate legal environment. a "Capital Markets and Securities Industry



43
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
Act" has been enacted and a Capital Mark-ets and Securities Authority has
been created. Both these vehicles seek to promote the development of an
efficient, orderly. transparent and safe capital mark-et and securities industrv
in Tanzania.
The securities market will operate initiallv as-a dealer market on an
over-the-counter basis. The Government also recognizes that the lack of
market intermedianres (brokers and dealers) is the missing link between
suppliers of and investors in securities. To promote the development of
mark-et intermediaries, the treasury bill mark-et seems to be the logical
starting point. At present, participation in the treasury bill auction is open to
all institutions, companies and individuals, and therefore, the incentive for
the development of a secondary market in which dealers maintain and trade
inventories of securities is weak. To facilitate the formation of a secondary
market and to promote the development of dealers, Bank of Tanzania is
considering limiting participation in the treasury bill auction to "approved
dealers". Dealing in other fixed-income, and eventually, in equity securities
will develop as these dealers gain experience, capital and customers. In the
mean time, should the private sector seek to establish a stock exchange, the
CMSA should ensure that its membership, organization, trading and
settlement mechanism are in the public interests. The Authoritv should also
make public education and promotion programs connected with securities
markets a basic market responsibility of the stock exchange until conditions
have been met to commence listing and trading.
The government wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the continuation
of the parastatal sector reform process. The Parastatal Sector Reform
-commission (PSRC) is implementing an action plan under which'about 227
parastatals will be privatizatized dunrng the period from 1993 through 1997.
It is hoped that some companies will be suitable for public flotation and such
initial public offerings will provide an impetus to the development of a
securities market in Tanzania. The Government wishes to see that a large
section of the population will become shareholders in these companies and
the achievement of this objective will be facilitated by the creation of
collective investment schemes such as unit trusts. Since the establishment of
unit trusts is likely to take time before they become operational. the
Government intends to establish a Privatization Trust Fund to -warehouse"
minority Government share-holdings of privatized parastatals while
conditions for proper unit trusts mature.



44
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
CONCLUSION
In view of the financial sector reform measures that have already been
initiated and those that are expected to be implemented in the near future. as
discussed above, the Government requests your favourable consideration of
the proposed Financial Institutions Development Project. I am sure that this
project will significantly contribute to the improvement of our financial
system and we are committed to the implementation of the project with the
utmost efficiency and quality.
Very truly yours
Lt.   ER FRya  FiNkwete
}NlBISER FOR FINANCE



1994-95 NBC DIVESTITURE STRATEGY SCHEDULE
Task                        Sep   Oct   Nov    Dec    Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr   May    Jun    Jul   Aug    Sep    Oct
1. Complete Preliminary Portfolio Review      _  i                 _           _ _                     _ _
2. Agree Privatization Strategy Schedule                v           _                 _          ____                  _
3. Begin Diagnostic Evaluation                                                4                      = _             =      =
4. Begin Recruitment of 3 Experienced Bank Line                        4
Managers                                                       _           _                  _                   _
5. Update Portfolio Review, including Disposition                             4_
6. Review Privatization Options with NBC and BOT       =                             4              =                  .   =
7. Finalize Pro Formas and/or Identify Branches To                                                                   4
Be Sold                __  _____                                                                                             ____
8. Board Approval logistical Plan Associated with
Privatization Option, including systems, rural                                                                    4
branch rationalization etc.                _            _                      .__                                _                     _
9. Approve Terms and Conditions for                                                                          4
Bidders/Investors                                       _              _                          ___ __
10. Select New Experienced Bank Line Management                                                      4
Team at NBC
11. Board approval of Restructuring Plan of retained                                                                 4
NBC           _                                                                                    _        __
12. Implement Rural Branch Reconfiguration and                                                                       4
"Bad"Bank Subsidiary
13. Negotiate Sale/lnvestment/Joint Venture             =                                                            4      4      4       4
14. NBC NV InternationaLUCorporate Subsidiary                                                                                                     4
opens                                             ____                                         ______    _
15. Begin Operations of Branches Under New                                                                                                        4
Management                                                                _



46
Page 1 of 2
,Ivaaandi Bank of Commerce                      30-Jun-r91      30-Jun-92     30-Jun-93      30-Jun-94    CAGR
Summary Balanca Sheet                                                  (Tsh  Billion)
Cash                                                     3.1             3.9           5.8           6.7  28%
BOT: Statuatory Minimum                                         0.0             0.0          10.9          20.0   NA
BOT: Current Account                                            2.0             5.1           7.8           0.0   NA
Other Due From Banks                                             iS du                       7,           1o4 2   43%
Due From Eanks                                          35.4            60.3          77.9         104.2  43%
Gross Loans                                                    29.9            30.2          29.0          28.8  -1e
Gross Overdrafts                                              114 0                                       147 4   12%
Gross Loans & Overdrafts                               134.0           123.9         172.9         176.1  10%
Less: Loans to 3 Crop Authorities Guranteed by Treasury        10.2            15.2          13.1           0.0   NA
Lass: Removea from BS to Memo                                  Q-Q             0            4.             Q-   NA
Adjusted Gross Loans and Overdrafts                    123.8           108.7         113.3         176.1  12%
Less: !nterest in Suspense on Doubttul Loans                    0.9             1.2          11.4           0.0   NA
Less: Provision for Bad and Doubttul Debt                         i            aid           2_ 3                 874%
Net Loans and Overdrafts                               113.5           83.4           79.8         117.2   1 %
NA
Bills Receivable                                        10.0            12.1          16.7          20.3  27%
Net Balance ot Suspense Accounts                         2.7           77.0           35.2          39.6  146%
Less: Provision for Probable Losses                             Qa             1,                           :i    NA
Net Balance ot Suspense Accounts Atter Provision         2.4           63.2           24.5          30.1  133%
Housa Accounts and Other                                         58 9                                      40. 1  4 1   -9%'
Total Other Assets                                      61.3          103.3           86.7          79.7   9%,e
Special Government Bonds                                        0.0            19.2          34.8          78.4   NA
Cther :nvestments                      13.a.                                     9.Ld                       2.Z  -36%
Total Investments                                       13.9           38.0           56.6          82.1  81%,
Fixed Assets                                            11.      5      a            21            2=  47%
Total Assets                                           248.6          317.2          351.3         446.4  22%
NA
NA
Due To Banks                                            38.3           70.9            0.5          14.5  -28%
NA
Currents Accounts                                              52.7            68.4          95.9         121.7  32%
Time Deposits                                                  31.4           44.7           59.4          51.1  18%,
Savings Accounts                                               19.7           29.3           41.5          56.7  42%
Foreign Currency Accounts                                       Li             Lf            2.2            6 .4 108%1.
Total Deposits                                         109.0          151.0         226.7          275.8  36%
Cther Liabilities                                       86.2          109.4           98.7          62.7  -10%
Recainec Earnings                                               0.0           -36.9          -8.9          11.6 4066%
Share Capital. General Resarves. Other Contributions           I5             221                          a.L:  75%
Total Equity                                            I5             . 14           2Q            22 933 3%
Tctal Liaoilties                                       248.6          317.0         345.9          446.3  22%,'



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Natonal Bank of Commerce                      30-Jun -91     30-Jun-92     30-Jun-93     30-Jun-94    CAGR
(Tsh Billion)                          NA
Summary Income Statement                                                                               NA
NA
Estimated Gross Interest Income on Loans              30.9           20.4         36.1          57.8  20%
Less: Suspended Interest Income                            0.9             1.2         11.4           0.0  35Y%
Net Interest Income on Loans                          30.0           19.2          24.7         57.8  21%
Interest Income on Investments                                       2-2           3.1           4.8  154%
Foreign Interest Income                                Q.QZA Qa    -1%
Total lnterest Income                                 33.2           24.7          30.2         66.0  22%
Interest Expense                                     2L:             2=            197          Za    -7Y.
Net Intefest Income                                  6.8           -4.6          10.5         46.0  80Y.
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts                   12            U2             :2          U    114%
Net Interest Margin                                  2.9          -32.8          15.6         12.6  -20%,
NA
Oiscounts                                              0.3            0.3           0.2          0.4  6%
Commisssions                                           4.7            6.2           6.3          8.4  21%
Exchange Gains                                         5.9            1.6           8.4         22.4  50%Y
Bad & Doubtdul Debts Recovery                          0.0            0.0           1.6          3.0 1678%
Other Non-interest Income                              QQ.Q                         QQl         QLI  44%
Total Non-interest Income                           11.0            8.2          16.6         34.3  38%
Provision for Probable Losses                         0.0             0.0           0.0          3.2
Provision for Contingent Liabilities                   0.0            0.0           0.0          2.3  NA
Bad and Doubtful Oebt Wntten Olt                      0.0             2.6          0.0           1.3  NA
Sundry Expenses                                         Q                          QQ                 273%
Non-Operating Expenses                              0.0            2.6           0.0           0.5  846%re
Office Expenses                                        4.2            9.1          10.2         13.9  29%
Staff Costs                                            _4             l            112. 43%
Operating Costs                                        -           IAI 4 91S.  36%
Total Expense                                        7.6           17.5          18.7         26.6  36%
NA
Net-Pretax Income                                    6.2          -36.9          16.2         20.2  21%
Extraordinary Gain                       Q,Q Q,Q                                        Q,   NA
Net Income Atter Extraordinary Gain                  6.2          -36.9          28.0         20.2  21-%
Taxes                                                 3 1.Q                        Q             QQ   NA
Net Income After Taxes                               3.1          -36.9          28.0         20.2  52%



PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
BANKING SUPERVISION DEPARTMENT
PERIOD Q2 1995 THROUGH Q4 1997
1995   T                       1996          -                                       1997                           l
Q4           QI           Q2          Q3          Q4          QI            Q2           Q3             Q4
lRS Hired       MFI          PIM         ICC       Trade         ICC           PIM          ICC       CRM Course
Course      Course      Course     Finance      Course        Course       Course
Course
MS Hired        ICC         Comp        TRM         MFI       Data Base   TRM Course
OffSite       Course       Train      Course      Course      Course
Comp        Review/        ICS                    Comp        Other       Computer
Traim       MS Hired      Short                   Train     Regulatory     Training
ShortTerm      Term                              Exposure
Other                                         Computer                                                            >
Regulatory                                       Training
Exposure
Computer
l ________     Training
Work Plan                                          OffSite                                             Methodology
Final                                          Complete                                               Complete
RS       - Restructuring Specialist
ICS      - Internal Control Specialist
MS       - Methodology Specialist
PIM      - Problem Institution Management Course
ICC      - Internal Control Course
Trade    - Trade Finance Course
CRM2    - Credit Risk Management Course 2
TRM      - Treasury Risk Management Course
N



49
Annex 5
Banking Supervision Directorate-Proposed Training Program
PERIOD Q2 1995 THROUGH Q4 1997
Course         Knowledge/Skill       Timing         Duration    1    Target             Cost
Development                                     I J    Group    I
Problem          Problem               Q2 1996       10 days           Examiners &    $ 108,200
Institutions     identification and    Q2 1997                        Bankers
Management       techniques of risk
(PIM)            mitigation                  _
Managing         The financial reform    Ql 1996     5 to 7 days       Examiners &    $ 38,805
Financial        process exposes FIs    Q4 1996                        Bankers
Institutions     to risk that were not
(MFI)            there before. The
course is intended to
sensitize the CEOs
and members of the
Board of Directors to
the risks and the
need to mitigate
those risks.
Trade Finance    The risks of trade    Q4 1996       5 days            Examiners &    $ 44,875
(Trade)          finance, problem                                      Bankers
identification and
resolution
Credit Risk      Credit analysis, risk    Q4 1997    5 days            Examiners &    $ 32,275
Management       management                                            Bankers
(CRM)            techniques and
process assessment
skills
Intemal Control  Intemal Control       Q1 1996       5 or 6 days       Examiners &    $ 127,000
Environment      assessment and        Q3 1996                         Bankers
(ICC)            weakness              Ql 1997
identification       Q3 1997
Treasury Risk    Treasury control      Q3 1996       6 or 7 days       Examiners &    $ 120,500
Management       environment           Q2 1997                         Bankers
(TR              techniques and
process assessment
skills
Computer Skills  To train examiners in   Q4 1995     Varied            Examiners       $ 93, 635
word processing,     Ql 1996
spreadsheets and the   Q2 1996
off-site data base   Q4 1996
Ql 1997
Q2 1997
Exposure to      To expose examiners   Q3 1995       Varied            Examiners       $ 63,000
Other            to other regulatory   Ql 1996
Regulatory       systems               Ql 1997
Functions in
Other Countries
Totals                                                                                 $ 628,290



Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
50
TANZANIA
Privatization Trust Fund
Rationale
1.    The rationale for the Privatization Trust Fund (PTF) is to enhance broad based
participation in the privatization program. The warehousing role of the PTF is intended to
eliminate the requirement for ongoing government involvement with (or potential interference in)
the disposition of remainder interests, and to increase the comfort of potential buyers of partially
liquidated parastatals. The latter would be attained because local "partner" (i.e. the PTF) in the
venture will be guided by legally grounded fiduciary (rather than political) motivations. The
irrevocable trust vehicle which is assumed to underpin this Trust further enhances its
independence from incidental influence or considerations of temporary expediency.
2.    The rationale for the PTF is that it preserves the availability of shares for acquisition by
citizens of the host country at a time in the future when such acquisition becomes possible. This
can be achieved without inhibiting the privatization process. Also, an advantage of the PTF is its
facility allows the development of the divestment methods best suited to achieve its objectives and
its ability to adapt to circumstances as they may develop from time to time. More importantly it
avoids the needs to predetermine strategies for application in years to come which could prove to
be inappropriate and therefore unlikely to succeed.
Description
3.           The Privatization Trust Fund would be set up as a non-capitalized trust vehicle to
receive shares, from Government ownership, in newly privatized enterprises (NPEs) and to hold
such shares for sale at a later stage as the Trustees of PTF may decide in order to achieve as wide
a distribution as is possible among Tanzanians. The proposed initiative would establish a non-
capitalized but technically supported local, independent PTF.  The Trust is meant to be a
temporary repository for the orientation of non-liquidated interests in privatized parastatal
companies for future sale. The initiative has the following long-term goals:
(i)    broad ownership of productive enterprises;
(ii)   to assist shifting ownership of productive enterprises from the public to the private
sector;
(iii)  to provide an incentive to attract qualified private owner/managers capable of
augmenting the value of privatized assets;



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
51
(iv)   to maximize, when possible, the financial value realized via the sale of privatized
assets, and distribute the proceeds for the benefit of the public;
(v)   to encourage or facilitate establishment or development of institutional investors
which in turn will foster the development of a capital market; and
(vi)  to facilitate the establishment of collective financial instruments (unit trust and
mutual fund).
Objective:
4.    The PTF will have the following objectives:
(i)   enable the widest number of Tanzanian citizens to participate in the privatization
process;
(ii)   ensure transparency;
(iii)  ensure the divestiture program  are in conformity with other shareholder's
objectives;
The following related benefits are expected as the result of achieving PTF objectives:
(i)   facilitation of the creation and development of a deeper capital and securities
market;
(ii)   facilitation of the privatization process.
5.    The PTF will be established in accordance with the Privatization Trust Act 1995. The
PTF will be managed by a private management company (the Management Company) of relevant
financial/merchant banking experience in accordance with a Trust Deed and a Management
Contract entered into with the Trustees. The responsibility for supervising the Management
Company and, in particular, for ensuring that its decisions are in conformity with the Trust Deed,
the Management Contract and the Divestment Policy will rest with the Board of Trustees of the
PTF.
The Trust Deed
6.           The PTF will be established by a Trust Deed (under PTF Act) between the
Government (PSRC) and the Trustees. The Trust will exist for a period of 5 years. If all the
shares are sold within that period, the PTF will be liquidated. If some shares remain unsold, the
PTF will be converted into a unit trust/mutual fund and floated to the public.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
52
7.          Once shares of the privatized companies have been transferred to the PTF, the
Government has no remaining control over these shares. The Government will however receive
any dividends paid on the shares and the ultimate sale proceeds minus the operation costs of the
PTF.
The Board of Trustees
8.          It is vital characteristic of the PTF that it is seen as being autonomous, objective,
and of the highest integrity. Accordingly the Trustees might be seen to have these characteristics
for the PTF to be perceived in the same way.
9.          The Board of Trustees will be comprised of five Trustees appointed by the
Minister of Finance from the private sector or professional association. The Trustees shall be of
good standing in the community so as to establish the PTF as an independent entity of the highest
integrity and professionalism. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman will be elected by the Board of
Trustees from among its members. The chairman and vice-chairman position will rotate among
board members. The trustees have security of tenure except in cases of bankruptcy or serious
misconduct.
10.        The function and responsibilities of the Trustees will be to:
(i)  supervise the operation of the Management Company;
(ii)   ensure that the Management Company performs in conformity to the Management
Contract (Annex 5), the Trust Deed, the PTF objectives and the Divestment Policy at all times;
(iii)  evaluate the performance of the Management Company in relation to the
Divestment Program;
(iv)   prepare annual financial statements of the PTF; and
(vi)  appoint independent auditors to audit the accounts of PTF. The auditors will
submit an independent opinion on the results of their review to the Board of Trustees. The audit
report will also be publicly released.
Selection Criteria for Purchase of Shares
11.         At the time of negotiations with the potential buyers of NPEs, PSRC will offer to
the PTF tninority shares of NPEs which are thought to be suitable candidates for a public offering.
The PTF will reject an offer of shares of a NPE if the Trustees consider that it does not meet the
PTF Objectives and selection criteria. The percentage of the shares of the NPE which will be



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
53
allotted for such purpose will be determined by PSRC, but never resulting in the operational
control of the NPE by the PTF.
12.         The PTF may accept the shares only if 51% of the shares of the NPE have been
sold to a majority shareholder or to several shareholders, then the PTF may accept the offer only
if those shareholders have entered into a shareholders agreement whereby the responsibility for
managing the NPE will rest with one of them.
13.         The PTF may not accept may offer of shares of a NPE if accepting this would
result in acquiring an effective controlling interest. The shares of the NPE must be, in the opinion
of the Trustees, well suited for a public floatation or a sale to suitable financial intermediaries.
Exercise of the Ownership Rights by the PTF
14.   Since the PTF will only accept ownership interests in NPEs which have either adequate
management in place or as the result of partial acquisition by a qualified investor/manager,
management of the PTF's interests in its portfolio companies should be restricted to the board
level interventions and involvement. The PTF will have the normal rights of a shareholder in the
NPE as set out in the Companies Act and the Articles of Association of the NPE concerned. It
will have the right to vote at the annual ordinary shareholders' meetings and at the extraordinary
shareholders' meetings. The PTF will receive dividend payments on its shares if and when
distributed by NPE. Such dividend payments will be made to an account specifically established
for that purpose in the name of the PTF.
The Management Company
15.   While the oversight of the PTF will be provided by a locally led Board of Trustees, the
Trust's day-to-day operations will be carried out by the management company with or access to
merchant banking expertise, preferably recruited locally. Outside technical assistance would be
made available to the PTF from time to time, as its needs dictated. For example, significant initial
TA will be required at the commencement of operations, and additional inputs must be available
to support each major asset "acquisition" or disposal.
16.   The Management Contract will be for the same period as the Trust Deed. It will set out
the functions and the responsibilities of the Management Company which will be to:
(i)   manage the PTF in accordance with the Trust Deed;
(ii)   evaluate the offers of shares made by the PSRC and advise and recommend to the
Trustees concerning the selection and acquisition of shares offered to the PTF and advise the
Trustees on policy matters;
(iii) manage the PTF share portfolio and monitor the progress of the portfolio;



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
54
(iv)   advise and recommend to the Trustees on the divestment of shares in accordance
with the PTF Objectives and the divestment policy;
(v)   submit to the Board of Trustees quarterly activity reports and financial statement
of the PTF. The report will present the results of the various divestment actions undertaken by
the Management Company, including the types of buyers, the capital gains achieved, and the
progress accomplished to date relative to an agreed upon divestment program; and
(vi)  ensure that the Trustees comply with their continuing obligations under the laws
and regulations of the PTF.
Management Fee
17.         The Management Company's remuneration will be a combination of a fixed fee and
performance related fee. The fixed monthly fee would be to cover management overhead,
operating and administrative costs of the manager. A weighted performance related variable fee
would be to provide incentives for successfully achieving the agreed objectives of PTF. In
Tanzania where adequate resources are not directly available, technical assistance funding for the
PTF will be sought from IDA and local resources. .
18.         The management fee will cover all management, overhead, operating and
administrative costs, including the costs of the technical advisor, if any. However, it will not
cover the transfer costs of the shares, including the transfer taxes, stamp duties and registration
fees. Such transfer costs will be borne by the Government.
Divestment Program and Outline of the Divestment Policy
19.         The divestment program will include a time-table for the divestment of all shares
held in PTF. The time-table will set forth the approximate dates and the methods of divestment
shares.      The priority will be given to the small individual Tanzanians investor through
public offerings ensuring appropriate level of geographical coverage within Tanzania. However,
if capital market conditions are unfavorable, shares will be sold to the financial intermediaries
investing on behalf of Tanzanian citizens via collective financial instruments (such as unit trust or
mutual fund). This priority should be reflected in the determination of the selling price of the
shares and the ceiling for the number of shares which may be purchased by each individual or
institutional investor. Maximum transparency of the sales will be achieved through publicity and
promotional campaigns.
20.   The sales of shares of a NPE to a financial intermediary will not permitted if such a sale
would create new or reinforce existing dominant positions in specific markets in accordance with
the competitive environment envisioned for open market economy of Tanzania. The timing of the
divestment should take into account other public or private placement in order to avoid putting
excessive strain on the absorptive capacity of the stock market.  Therefore it is imperative, that



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
55
maximum coordination is maintained with the governing body of the stock exchange, the PSRC,
and institutional investors in order to achieve this objective. The sale of shares of a NPE should
not result into creation of dominant position in specific markets and reduce competition. The
Trustees may decide to sell the shares of a NPE in one or several tranches based on the agreed
upon divestiture plan for each NPE recommended by the PTF management company.
Action Plan
21.   The PTF should be operational in time for receiving the minority shares of the NPEs
which are already in set aside. In order to achieve this goal, a draft Trust Deed, including PTF
objectives and divestment policy, and a draft Management Contract have been prepared. The
immediate potential outlook for PTF's portfolio appears to be in order of about 30 companies
with the face value of about $50mn at the time of share transfer to the Trust. The establishment
of the PTF and the appointment of Trustees should take place by June 1995. Selection and
appointment of the Management Company, rendering the PTF operational, along with the transfer
of the first block of shares to the PTF, should then be achieved before September 1995.



56                             Annex 7.1
TANZANIA
DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE
UPDATED TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1. In 1991, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) initiated its financial sector reform
program. The aim of the program was to promote the efficient mobilization and allocation
of savings through an improved and more competitive financial system. The program
included: passage of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1991, which inter alia,
permitted the entry of private banks; strengthening of the Bank of Tanzania's monetary
policy and regulatory functions; restructuring of the three Government owned commercial
banks; and initial steps to promote the emergence of a capital market in Tanzania. As a
result, competition has been reintroduced to the sector with the opening of two
international commercial banks in the latter half of 1993, three additional expected in 1994.
2. The Government's strategy to-date has been to allow competition to gradually reduce
the market share of the largest state-owned bank, the National Bank of Commerce (NBC).
While this strategy has enjoyed some success, the success did not obviate the need to
recapitalize NBC. The recapitalization, which required the issuance of Tsh 150 billion in
treasury bonds at an annual expense to the GOT of Tsh 8.6 billion, was completed in
October, 1993 (FY 94). The Government wishes to minimize any further budgetary
infusions and therefore is aiming to accelerate the downsizing of NBC with a view to its
eventual privatization.
Objectives
3. The Government wishes to undertake a diagnostic study of NBC, with a view to
identifying the most beneficial options for privatizing the Bank. Considerations with
respect to that restructuring should be based more heavily on what is best for Tanzania's
banking system rather than what is best for NBC. These options could include (1) leaving
NBC the way it is, continuing the present efficiency reforms, and selling, say 40%, to the
general public; (2) splitting NBC into 2-4 pieces on either a regional or national basis, and
partially privatizing these pieces; (3) dividing NBC into an urban and a rural bank; and
(4) spinning off one or two attractive urban commercial networks to be sold to private,
well established commercial banks, forming a joint venture international/corporate
subsidiary and retaining within a partially privatized NBC the rural network and a national
presence in all city markets. These four options, along with their variants, broadly cover
the range of altematives to be considered. Option 4 appears to be a particularly attractive
strategy for privatizing NBC and thus it should receive priority during the diagnostic
study. An assessment of NBC's current and future financial viability is pertinent to the
evaluation of the alternatives.



57                              Annex 7.1
The Assignment
4. The consulting firm will be expected to (a) develop pro forma balance sheet and
income statements for any entities that will be either sold or spun-off as going concerns,
new NBC subsidiaries, and NBC after implementation of the selected privatization option;
(b) document the logistical implications and schedule inherent in Option 4 or other
preferable alternatives; and (c) manage a process of review and consultation for NBC, to
include management, Board of Directors, BOT and MOF.
5. To accomplish the above, adjustments to FY June 1994 financials should be made if
deemed necessary to fairly present the NBC's financial condition. Particular attention
should be paid to:
* loan related adjustments, e.g. provisions, non-accrual of interest income on non-
performing loans and overdrafts that arise from updating the 3/94 portfolio review to
6/94.
losses associated with items held in suspense, e.g. unreconciled inter branch clearing
accounts,
realized and unrealized losses/gains as a function of currency or asset/liability
mismatches, e.g. foreign exchange losses, interest rate bets
6. To support both the analysis of alternatives and implementation of the selected option,
the June 1994 actuals should be built up from the individual branch balance sheets and
income statements. Branch income statements should reflect both direct and fully
allocated head office costs, the cost of risk-adjusted equity,and funds credits/charges.
Branch balance sheets should describe the mix of loans by sector and type (private,
parastatal, other) as well as the level of non-performing, classified loans.   As a
consequence the pro formas required for Option 4 or any other will reflect the required
levels of capital, reserves, and liquidity.
8. On the basis of the analysis of actuals, recommendations should be made (and
subsequently reflected in the pro formas) that would enhance the profitability such that the
NBC, without, in the case of Option 4, the proposed joint venture subsidiary, could
operate at break-even profitability, but not at the expense of building the joint venture
subsidiary. Recommendations with respect to organizational effciency for the restructured
and downsized NBC desrcibed in the pro forma should be detailed.
Output
9. The output of the study will include: (a) disks containing clearly documented EXCEL
spreadsheets for branch balance sheet and income statements including relevant
memorandum items such as unpaid interest, headcount, number of deposits, loans data on
non-performing loans as well as all relevant aggregations/consolidations of the branches;



58                            Annex 7.1
(b) disks containing both the loan-by-loan detail and summary tables for the March 1994
and June 1994 loan portfolio reviws
(b) interm presentations, and a (c) final report.
Two interim presentations will be required. The first covering FY 94 actuals and the
results of the June 1994 loan portfolio review will be completed four weeks after the start
of the contract. The focus of the presentation is a review of the privatization options
based on preliminary branch analyses, FY1993/94 financial condition, and updated loan
portfolio review and a review of the restrucuring options. The second be done after six
weeks to present the adjusted pro formas balance sheets and income statements associated
with Option 4, as modified if it has been selected at the earlier meeting plus detailed
restructuring plans for review. The final report should incorporate the comments,
decisions of management received on the basis of the earlier presentations. The report will
be due 14 weeks after the beginning of the contract.



Annex 7.2
59
TANZANIA
PRIVATIZATION STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
THE NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1. In 1991, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) initiated its financial sector reform
program. The aim of the program was to promote the efficient mobilization and allocation
of savings through an improved and more competitive financial system. The program
included: passage of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1991, which inter alia,
permitted the entry of private banks; strengthening of the Bank of Tanzania's regulatory
functions; restructuring of the three Government owned commercial banks; and initial
steps to promote the emergence of a capital market in Tanzania. As a result, competition
has been reintroduced to the sector with the opening of two international commercial
banks in latter half of 1993, three more already in 1994 and three in the licensing process.
2. The Government's strategy to-date has been to allow competition to gradually reduce
the market share of the largest state-owned bank, the National Bank of Commerce (NBC).
While this strategy has enjoyed some success, two recapitalizations were necessitated.
One in November, 1992 (FY 93) and another in October, 1993 (FY 94). Together they
required the issuance of Tsh 150 billion in treasury bonds at an annual expense to the GOT
of Tsh 8.6 billion. The Government wishes to minimize any further budgetary infusions
and therefore is aiming to accelerate the downsizing of NBC with a view to its eventual
privatization.
3. Concern has been heightened by NBC's performance in FY 93-94. Despite the
removal, recategorization or guarantee of Tsh 78.5 billion of 1992 non-performing loans,
the portfolio review indicates that over 70% of the 3/94 loan portfolio Tshl78 billion may
be non-performing, requiring provisions of approximately Tsh 65 billion. This level of
non performing loans suggests that prudential guidelines with respect to accrual of interest
income are not being met. Adjusting FY 93 gross loans for retrospective removal of loans
swapped for bonds reveals loan growth of 41%.
4. The Government is undertaking a diagnostic study of NBC to identify the most
beneficial options for privatizing the Bank.  Considerations with respect to that
restructuring will be based more heavily on what is best for Tanzania's banking system
rather than what is best for NBC. Four options include: (1) leaving NBC the way it is,
continuing the present efficiency reforms, and selling, say 40%, to the general public; (2)
splitting NBC into 2-4 pieces on either a regional or national basis, and partially
privatizing these pieces; (3) dividing NBC into an urban a rural bank; and (4) spinning off
or two attractive urban commercial networks to be sold to foreign commercial banks,



60                               Annex 7.2
forming a joint venture international/corporate subsidiary and retaining within a partially
privatized NBC the rural network and a national presence in all city markets. These four
options, along with their variants, appear to broadly cover the range of alternatives to be
considered. Option 4 appears to be a particularly attractive strategy for privatizing NBC
and thus it will receive priority during the diagnostic study. An assessment of NBC's
current and future financial viability is pertinent to the evaluation of the alternatives.
Objectives
5. The Government wishes to engage an investment bank or consulting firm to: (a)
recommend terms and conditions associated with the privatization strategy that emerges
from the diagnostic study, (b) implement the sale of portions of NBC's urban network,
and (c) seek a joint venture managing partner for an NBC international corporate
subsidiary.
The Assignment
6. The branch analyses, loan portfolio review, December 1994 actuals, and pro formnas
developed in the diagnostic review will be made available to the investment banking firm
for its own due diligence. The privatization strategy that emerges should be modified if
necessary to enhance its successful implementation. For example, if sale of only one urban
branch network seems feasible, a second "spin-off' in the form of individual branches in
some cities could perhaps be assembled.
7. Careful consideration will need to be paid to the asset/liability structure of each branch
to be spun-off. Recommendations with respect to the guarantees that need to be provided
to buyers should be detailed. While no buyer will buy large loans or potentially hidden
liabilities, sale of only fixed assets would be a disappointment.  For example, the
attractiveness and feasibility of structures that permit a buyer to put loans back after a
period of time or a loan should be evaluated.
8. The sales memorandum and private placement documents associated with the
privatization strategy should be specific not only with respect to balance sheets but also
with respect to NBC employees and fixed assets.
9. A forecast scenario that estimates returns for potential buyers should be prepared which
will reflect both the amount of investment required and the availability of guarantees or
subsidies that reduce risk for an initial period.  A recommendation with respect to
necessity of the government remaining as to a minority shareholder should be made. All
risks and costs of the transaction to GOT should be quantified. GOT should indicate its
willingness or its accomplishment of regulatory or statutory changes that are requires by
the sales of branches and establishment of a joint venture subsidiary in NBC.
10. The schedule of sales and the negotiation process will be directed by the investment
bank for the benefit of GOT as the client.



61                              Annex 7.2
Output
11. The output will include (a) a preliminary set of terms and conditions for each element
of the strategy for review and agreement with GOT; (b) a list of potential acquirers and
investors meeting minimum requirements to be deemed acceptable, and (c) the sales
memorandum, private placement, and public offering of NBC shares documents as well as
a success criteria.
Timing
12. Preliminary terms and conditions and list of potential acquirers and investors should be
available four weeks after the start of the assignment. Preliminary drafts of the documents
should be available after three months. The sale and investments should be successfully
concluded six months after the start of the assignment.



62                                  ANNEX 7.3
NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE
MANAGEMENT TEAM
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
In 1991, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) initiated its financial sector reform program. The
aim of the program was to promote the efficient mobilization and allocation of savings through an
improved and more competitive financial system. The program included: passage of the Banking
and Financial institutions Act of 1991, which inter alia, permitted the entry of private banks;
strengthening of the Bank of Tanzania's regulatory functions; restructuring of the three
Government owned commercial banks; and initial steps to promote the emergence of a capital
market in Tanzania. As a result, competition has been reintroduced to the sector with the opening
of two international commercial banks in the later half of 1993, three more already in 1994 and
three in the licensing process.
The Government's strategy to-date has been to allow competition to gradually reduce the market
share of the largest state-owned bank, the National Bank of Commerce (NBC). While this strategy
has enjoyed some success, two recapitalizations were necessitated.  One in November, 1992
(FY93) and another in October, 1993 (FY94). Together they required the issuance of Tsh 150
billion in treasury bonds at an annual expense to the GOT of Tsh 8.6 billion. The Government
wishes to minimize any further budgetary infusions and therefore is aiming to accelerate the
downsizing of NBC with a view to its eventual privatization. The strategy for doing so entails, in
part, the recruitment of experienced commercial bankers as Chief Operating Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Credit Manager.
The mandate of the senior management team will be to draft for review and comments and then
finalize and implement the business plan for the restructuring of NBC. The two key objectives of
restructuring NBC are (1) to increase competition in the financial sector and (2) to transform NBC
from a major loss making institution to at least a break-even position within the first year of the
contract period and, thereafter, to get NBC to a profitability level such that it would be self-
sustaining.
Chief Operating Officer
1.    The National Bank of Commerce wishes to recruit an individual for a minimum of three
years as Chief Operating Officer in NBC's Head Office in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The
successful candidate should have the following qualifications:
(a)    a degree in Economics, Statistics or Business Administration plus postgraduate
qualification in project management with PC computer skills.
(b)    minimum of ten years working experience in a commercial bank with at least five
years in a senior management position. Professional experience in a developing
country, preferably Africa, is an added advantage.



63                                   ANNEX 7.3
The COO would report to the Managing Director and would attend all meetings of the
Board of Directors. The COO is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the bank
and, as appropriate, all personnel would report through the COO to the Managing Director and the
Board.
The COO would:
a.    lead the preparation, implementation and periodic review of the bank's financial
restructuring plan (i.e. the Business Plan). The plan will set specific performance
targets paying particular attention to financial performance targets and downsizing
objectives. In view of the very serious financial position of the bank, the business
plan will include but not be limited to the specific cost cutting measures to be
implemented by the bank. This will include the number of branches/Head Office
departments to be closed or streamlined and delineate a staff retrenchment program
throughout the various levels of the bank. In line with the cost cutting initiatives,
the COO will implement specific financial performance measures against which he
and his senior management team will be measured. Financial targets will include
but not be limited to (a) loan recovery and collection targets against well
established and timed targets (b) the maximum level of non-performing loans
within the portfolio by type and size of borrower, (c) profitability and efficiency
ratios to measure the impact of the restructuring initiatives on internal efficiency
and profitability, such as return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE), as
well as operating cost measures to both asset levels and profitability, (d) balance
sheet and liquidity ratios to promote and support the day-to-day management of the
bank. Regular monitoring of results, no less frequent than quarterly, will be
instituted. The COO will be held accountable for the results achieved by the senior
management team by the Board of NBC, that is, reaching the specified targets
outlined and agreed with the Board and the renewal of their management contract
will be performance based. Equally, extensions of the contract term in accordance
with Paras. 2.4 and 2.9 as well as the compensation of the COO and, as
appropriate, the members of the senior management team will be reviewed annually
in relation to results achieved pursuant to the Business Plan;
b.    supervise the production of the annual budget for the bank; review, refine and
implement the system for the strict control of and adherence to the budget, and
report monthly on the outcome of the budget to the Board through the MD;
c.     oversee and participate in the review of credit risk management and underwriting
procedures and supervise the design of a system to ensure that the monthly
recovery rate corresponds to the rate in the restructuring plan;
d.     oversee and participate in the review, refinement and implementation of returns for
monitoring operations of every branch and submit quarterly profitability reports of
all branches based on those returns;
e.    review the bank's treasury function and redesign/implement it as necessary to
ensure consistently adequate liquidity in day to day operations as well as
maintaining adequate daily balances at the Central Bank;



64
ANNEX 7.3
supervise the inspection and audit functions and ensure timely implementation of
corrections arising out of inspection and audit reports;
g.     oversee and participate in the review, design and implementation of departmental
work-plans and report quarterly on compliance with the work-plans;
h.    lead the implementation of the privatization plan;
ensure that all legally mandated reports, including the annual financial statements,
are produced on time and are of an acceptable standard;
oversee the preparation and implementation of a plan for substantially improving
customer services.
k.     oversee the preparation and implementation of a management development plan to
ensure that the management team for the residual NBC will be adequately exposed
to all facets of the restructuring exercise and that they will be in a position to
independently manage the restructured institution, once the contract is ended.
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
I1.    The National Bank of (NBC) wishes to recruit a qualified individual for a minimum of
three years as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (CFO) in NBC's Head Office in Dar es
Salaam, Tanzania. The successful candidate should have the following qualifications:
(a)    Postgraduate degree in Commerce (Finance or Accounting)/Economics/Business
Administration. Qualified chartered accountant or its equivalent has an added
advantage.
(b)    Minimum ten years working experience in Banking with at least five years in a
senior management position.
(c)    PC computer skills.
(d)    Experience in third world country environment
2.     The CFO's terms of reference will be as follows:
(a)    Develop and implement a Financial Plan including cash flow projections which will
enable the bank, while complying with all regulatory requirements (liquidity, etc.)
to maximize its balance sheet exposure, minimize exposure to risk and promote
earnings potential to achieve its corporate objectives and mission. Similar to the
COO position, the performance of the CFO will be performance based with results
to be measured against established targets, incorporated within the approved
Business Plan. Extension of the contract term in accordance with Paras. 2.4 and
2.9, as well as the compensation of the CFO will be reviewed annually in relation
to results achieved pursuant to the Business Plan.



65
ANNEX 7.3
(b)    Prepare an investment policy for the bank and spearhead the establishment of a
professional Treasury function in the Bank, providing advice and counsel as
required.
(c)    Lead the preparation of the financial statements of the bank, including annual and
quarterly financial reports and prospectuses.
(d)    Assess and implement improvements in the Bank's accounting and management
information system:
-      study the reconciliation procedures and practices and set in motion a
mechanism for timely investigation and set off of entries on suspense accounts;
-      implement a computer based reconciliation system  with a view  to
improving/expediting reconciliation of accounts and strengthening internal control
measures;
(e)    Review and implement improvements in the budgeting and planning process at the
bank.
(f)    Advise the Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer on costing of Head
Office operations and develop/establish systems for apportioning overhead costs to
the various profit/cost centers according to services rendered.
(g)    Examine the corporate expenditure structure and identify areas where expenditure
cuts can be made without affecting operations adversely.
(h)    Advise the COO  on measures to improve its earning capacity both through
traditional sources and new avenues.
(j)    Evolve proposals to ensure continuous capital adequacy without depending on new
injections from the government.
(j)    Develop and implement a management development plan to ensure that the
financial functions within the residual NBC have trained and experienced personnel
to ensure orderly succession following completion of the contract. This would
involve taking appropriate steps to ensure that such trained personnel have acquired
all requisite capabilities to sustain NBC's financial operations, once the contract is
complete. Specifically, this means the financial management skills and operational
know how to manage the treasury function, the investment operations, the financial
accounting and controllership function and any other financial management
departments concentrated within this area. Progress in reaching sustainability of
financial and all other operations is a major goal and, therefore, subject to periodic
review by the client.



66                                   ANNEX 7.3
Credit Manager
1.    The National Bank of Commerce wishes to recruit an individual for a minimum of three
years in as Credit Manager in NBC's Head Office in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The successful
candidate should have the following qualifications:
(a)    a degree in Economics, Statistics or Business Administration plus postgraduate
qualification in Project Appraisal, Monitoring, and Evaluation, with computer
literacy.
(b)    minimum of ten years working experience in a commercial bank with at least five
years in a senior management position. Professional experience in a developing
country, preferably Africa, is an added advantage.
2.     The Credit Manager's terms of reference will be as follows:
(a)    Advise and participate in the design and implementation of policies and programs
relating to Loan Origination, Underwriting, Implementation, Monitoring and
Evaluation.
(b)    Review the Bank's lending policy and procedures, identify any weaknesses in loan
processing and loan administration that may be responsible for poor portfolio
performance and: (a) develop a comprehensive credit policy to address any
weaknesses.
(c)    Conduct a special review of all classified credits and supervise the development of
appropriate restructuring plans. Set specific targets for actual loan collection.
These targets should be set by individual borrower and, as appropriate, by groups
of borrowers. Performance of the Credit Manager and the lending staff would be
measured against these set targets, at least quarterly and will be held accountable
to the Board of NBC. Renewal of the employment contract for the Credit Manager
will be performance based. Equally, the compensation of the Credit Manager will
be reviewed annually in relation to results achieved pursuant to the Business Plan.
(d)    On the basis of available sector studies and data, the national development plan and
the corporate mission, review the current exposure by sector and geographical
distribution and work out prudent criteria for funds deployment.
(e)    For various loan categories, work out appropriate disbursement and repayment
procedures in close collaboration with local counterpart staff.
(f)    Review loan accounting policies and the current reporting on loans and redesign
and organize regular flow of relevant data and information to ensure compliance
with regulatory guidelines.
(g)    Establish computer-based systems for implementing, monitoring and evaluating
loans at Head office/Region/Branch units.



67
ANNEX 7.3
(h)    Design a framework for analysis of information/data for the purpose of checking
whether individual projects are being implemented as planned, identifying
constraints and suggesting corrective action.
(h)    Study the loans currently classified as bad loans and advise management on the
most prudent measures to minimize loss and maintain confidence.
(i)    Develop and implement a management development plan to ensure that the credit
function within the residual NBC is trained and have experienced staff to manage
the credit function of the bank. This would include personnel for credit policy
setting, the credit review and approval function and all facets of the credit risk
management area. As well, the Credit Manager will be required to determine the
level of problem account management and collection expertise that is required for
the residual NBC and ensure adequate skills are developed to manage this specific
function. Also, the Credit Manager will be required to conduct on the job
training courses for credit officers and participate as Resource Personnel in courses
organized to equip staff with appropriate credit and collection techniques.



68
Annex 7.4
PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR
INTRODUCTION.
The Government of Tanzania recognizes that the development of the financial system in Zanzibar
will depend critically on the restructuring of PBZ. The objective is to convert the bank into a
viable commercial bank and to transfer all non-commercial banking activities to BOT and the
Ministry of Finance in Zanzibar. The immediate aim would be to restructure PBZ and place it
under professional management. The Government intends to recruit two professional bankers as
as General Manager and Financial Controller for two years. Their main responsibilities will be to
oversee the restructuring of the bank. Specifically, this will include the preparation of a business
plan, the formulation of appropriate policies and operating procedures, installation of effective
internal control, the design of a marketing strategy, and the introduction of new financial services.
GENERAL MANAGER
The General Manager acts as the Chief Executive Officer of the bank and reports to the Board of
Directors. He shall plan, set goals and objectives, organize, recruit or retrench staff, lead and
motivate officers and employees to enhance productivity, direct and control the operations of the
bank, and shall coordinate and supervise the activities of its various branches, departments and/or
units, in accordance with the policies and instructions of the Board of Directors. He shall ensure
safe and sound operations of the bank as well as its compliance with the banking laws,
regulations, and prudent norms prescribed by the Bank of Tanzania.
Responsibilities
1.  Study, recomnmend to the Board of Directors, and execute a yearly corporate plan that
embraces the following:
(a) Goals, objectives and corporate philosophy of the bank;
(b) Organizational structure and functions of the bank and all its departments/ units;
(c) Business plans and strategies for achieving targets and objectives;
(d) Resource mobilization strategies and financial products;
(e) Credit extension and recovery programme;
(f) Branch profitability targets;
(g) Cost reduction/retrenchment programme;
(h) Human resource development programme;
(i) Branch network expansion programme;
() Automation of banking functions and customer services;
(k) Corporate budget; and
(1) Management information, monitoring and control systems.
2.  Recommend policies to the Board and initiate the development of appropriate systems and
procedures covering the various functions and activities of the bank including the following:
(a) Delegation of authorities and limits of discretion;



69
Annex 7.4
(b) Development of human resources, recruitment and promotion, schemes of service and
compensation, performance appraisal, discipline and grievance procedures;
(c) Creation of appropriate Board committees, including an Audit Committee and an
Executive Committee.
(d)  Deposit and resource mobilization;
(e) Assets and liability/liquidity management;
(f)  Investment, credit and collection;
(g)  Risk diversification;
(h)  Branch operations, standards of performance, classificationlgrading of branches,
branch expansion, consolidation/transfer/closure of unprofitable  branches;
(i) International operations, correspondent relationship, foreign exchange dealing limits;
(j)  Trust and other fiduciary activities;
(k) Accounting and internal control;
(1)  Audit and inspection;
(m) Management information; and
(n)  Customer and public relations.
3.  Review staff placements and recruit/reduce staff as may be necessary.
4.  Direct the operations of the bank and implement the policies and decisions of the Board.
5.  Establish standards to measure the performance of the bank and its various departments and
units.
6.  Coordinate and supervise the activities/operations of all branches, departments/units and
ensure harmony of individual efforts to accomplish corporate goals.
7. Represent the bank in an official capacity as weli as in civic, social and community oriented
activities that promote goodwill for the institution.
8.   Submit to the Board of Directors an annual report on the performance, financial condition,
and general affairs of the bank.
9.  Perform such other functions as normally done by the Chief Executive Officer of a bank and
as the Board of Directors may decide.
10. The Consultant will be required to progressively transfer his/her knowledge, know-how, and
responsibilities to their local counterparts. The Consultant will be deemed accountable in
this respect, and their performance will be evaluated on, among other things, the extent to
which such transfer actually takes places.
11. The Contracts will be renewable annually.
FINANCIAL CONTROLLER
The Financial Controller is responsible to the General Manager.  He shall exercise direct
supervision and coordinate the activities of all departments and units responsible for financial



70
Annex 7.4
accounting, management accounting, budgeting, liquidity management/treasury operations, risk
exposure management, management information system and automation/computer services. He
shall assist in setting up an internal audit and inspection unit and in training its staff.
Responsibilities
1. Install appropriate accounting system and ensure its efficient functioning at all times.
2.  Develop a manual containing the accounting procedures to be observed by the bank
including the prompt and proper booking and balancing of transactions on a daily basis;
monthly reconciliation of bank balances, clearing and inter branch accounts, reconciliation of
general ledger balances against subsidiary records; revaluation of foreign exchange
accounts; accrual of interest; provisioning of losses; writing-off bank debts; booking of
recoveries of charged-off assets; monthly booking of depreciation expenses in the branches
which carry/use the fixed assets; monthly booking of interest on deposits and borrowings
and other accrued expenses; creation of central liability ledgers, etc.
3.  Prepare the annual budget and provide necessary inputs to the corporate plan as may be
required by the General Manager and/or the scope of his duties and responsibilities,
including the development of business plans, targets and objectives, and organizational
structure and staffing of all departments and/or units under his direct supervision.
4.   Approve legitimate expenditures within the limits of his authority and the approved budget.
5.  Install necessary financial control measures to ensure that all branches/units operate within
the approved budget.
6.  Make a monthly /bi-monthly/quarterly review of the budget and recommend revisions as
may be necessary to ensure that costs and expenditures of every branch/unit are within
actual income levels.
7.  Install appropriate systems and procedures for measuring the performance of the bank as a
whole, and all branches/units in relation, inter alia, to income and business targets, expenses
and budget, returns on equity/assets, accounting and internal control policies, credit and
collection procedures, management information systems and BOT reports, customer and
community relations, personnel policies, managerial competence and other objectives.
8.  Install an effective internal control system for safeguarding the assets, property and records
of the bank. This should cover the entire operations and all branches, departments and
units.
9.   Supervise treasury operations and, in this respect, manage risk exposures embracing credit,
investments, liquidity, interest rates, maturity structure of assets and liabilities, funding of
assets, deposit mobilization, utilization of surplus resources, dealing in foreign exchange,
foreign exchange position, commitments and contingent items, and capital adequacy.



71
Annex 7.4
10. Study and recommend measures to ensure judicious use of the bank's name with the view of
curtailing unauthorized commitments.
11. Study, recommend and install an appropriate management information system covering all
branches, departments, and units of the bank, which system should be conducive to the
timely and efficient flow of information and an effective decision-making process.
12. Study, recommend and supervise the automation of the various operating systems taking
into account the need to prioritize computer applications due to limitations in available
resources and technical skills.
13. Develop computer training programmes and conduct training courses, with or without
external assistance in order to upgrade the skills of the staff in the use of computers.
14. Study, recommend and initiate, with or without external assistance, the strengthening of the
bank's internal audit and inspection unit by designing the audit and inspection programmes
and procedures, recruitment, placement and training of qualified staff.
15. Recommend the appointment of the bank's external auditors.
16. Ensure the completion and submission of the bank's financial statements to the external
auditors within the period prescribed under the Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1991.
17. Ensure the submission of the audited accounts to the bank's Board of
Directors/Management and the Bank of Tanzania within the period prescribed under the
Banking and Financial Institutions Act, 1991, relevant BOT regulations and policies of the
bank.
18. Ensure the submission of all reports required by the Bank of Tanzania.
19. Perform such other functions as may be required by the General Manager and/or Board of
Directors.
20. The consultant will be required to progressively transfer his/her knowledge, know-how, and
responsibilities to their local counterparts. The consultant will be deemed accountable in this
respect, and their performance will be evaluated on, among other things, the extent to which
such transfer actually takes places.
21. The contracts will be renewable annually.



72                             Annex 7.5
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
BANKING ADVISORS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
In 1991, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) initiated its financial sector reform
program. The aim of the program was to promote the efficient mobilization and allocation
of savings through an improved and more competitive financial system. The program
included: passage of the Banking and Financial institutions Act of 1991, which inter alia,
permitted the entry of private banks; strengthening of the Bank of Tanzania's regulatory
functions; restructuring of the three Government owned commercial banks; and initial
steps to promote the emergence of a capital market in Tanzania. As a result, competition
has been reintroduced to the sector with the opening of two international commercial
banks in the later half of 1993, three more already in 1994 and three in the licensing
process.
The Government's strategy to-date has been to allow competition to gradually
reduce the market share of the largest state-owned bank, the National Bank of Commerce
(NBC). While this strategy has enjoyed some success, two recapitalizations were
necessitated. One in November, 1992 (FY93) and another in October, 1993 (FY94).
Together they required the issuance of Tsh 150 billion in treasury bonds at an annual
expense to the GOT of Tsh 8.6 billion. The Government wishes to minimize any further
budgetary infusions and therefore is aiming to accelerate the downsizing of NBC with a
view to its eventual privatization.
Objectives
1 .    The overall objective is to advise the Ministries of Finance of both Zanzibar and
the mainland regarding the restructuring programs for the Government owned financial
institutions.
Assignment
2.    The Advisors would provide guidance to the respective Ministers of Finance as
follows:
* Review the progress of the restructuring plans and provide advice as to
whether the direction is appropriate, given the operating environment. Also,
the advisor should assess the overall appropriateness of the organizational
structure and the experience and depth of the senior management to achieve
the newly established corporate goals as defined in the business/restructuring
plans.



73                              Annex 7.5
Assist the Ministries in their assessment of the role of the boards in the
corporate governance process and recommend strengthening where required.
Consideration should be given to the mandate, composition and structure of
the boards and their committees. As well, do the boards have adequate
expertise to bring to bear on the issues facing the institution and are they
independent in exercising their responsibilities?
* Assess the role and effectiveness of external and internal audit within each of
these institutions and its relationship with the Board of Directors and the Audit
Committee. Address whether the scope of the external and internal audit
function is appropriate and independent.  Is the Board kept adequately
informed of material weaknesses within each of the institutions and do they
ensure senior management respond appropriately to external and internal audit
findings. In turn, is the respective Ministry kept apprised of major weaknesses
which impact the financial system as a whole.
* Assess the risk profile and risk tolerance of the restructured institutions and
advise the Ministries regarding the appropriateness of the credit risk
management and asset/liability management policies and practices and if and
how the board is exercising adequate oversight
* Assess the adequacy and integrity of the information provided to the boards.
Determine if the Management Infornation Systems within each of the
institutions is adequately designed and maintained to provide timely and
sufficient financial data to perrnit senior management and the board to monitor
financial performance against the business/restructuring plan to enable them to
respond to problems and developing trends.
3.    The consultant will be required to progressively transfer his/her knowledge, know-
how, and responsibilities to their local counterparts. The consultant will be deemed
accountable in this respect, and their performance will be evaluated on, among other
things, the extent to which such transfer actually takes places.
4.    The contracts will be renewable annually.
Outputs
The advisor will be called upon to prepare reports on major topics for presentation to the
Ministries of Finance, the boards and senior management of the institutions and potentially
other senior Government officials.
Skills
The advisor should be an experienced senior banker, having held an executive level
position in a large financial institution for a period of at least five years. Experience in the



74                            Annex 7.5
financial sector of a developing country is mandatory. Experience in strategic planning
would be of benefit.



7 5                            Annex 7.6
BANKING SUPERVISION
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION RESTRUCTURING
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The aim of the Government of Tanzania's financial sector reform program is to
move from a concentrated inefficient government-owned financial system to a strong
privately-held competitive financial sector. The emergence of the latter is dependent on
the development of sound local and foreign financial institutions. To support the program,
many initiatives have been introduced or are underway. These include new banking
legislation passed in 1991 vesting in the central bank the powers to license, regulate and if
necessary, liquidate financial institutions.
2.    Two of three of the local banks are in the process of major restructuring efforts.
NBC, the dominant government controlled bank is currently undergoing significant
restructuring. CRDB, the main rural banking vehicle also is being restructured. Both
institutions are cited for varying degrees of privatization. The third government bank,
PBZ, is formulating its restructuring plan. A recovery trust vehicle was established to
hold and recover the non-performing portfolios of these institutions. Non-Bank Financial
Institutions (NBFIs) including, Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB), Tanzanian Housing
Bank (THB), among others, need to be assessed to determine their long term position in
the financial market in view of their competitive strengths.
Obiective
3.    The Bank Supervision Directorate of the Bank of Tanzania is receiving technical
assistance from the IMF in the form of a resident advisor. In addition, consultants are
required on a short term basis to assist the Director of Bank Supervision in directing and
managing the day-to-day regulatory role in the restructuring of the state-owned financial
institutions, and to provide training to local staff in the regulation and restructuring of
problem institutions.
The Assignment
4.    Through a series of short term visits, two consultants will:
a. develop a specific monitoring and surveillance system to capture and report
critical data to analyze the daily position of problem institutions assigned to
his/her portfolio;
b. make restructuring or liquidation recommendations to the Director, Banking
Supervision and the Governor, through the IMF Advisor, regarding specific



76                               Annex 7.6
financial institutions and designing the program to implement the recommended
course of action;
c. develop a mechanism/forum to ensure that the senior management of BOT are
fully informed of major developments relating to problem institutions;
d. spearhead the design of the regulatory response(s) to the de-stabilizing impact
of a restructuring or liquidation of any of the assigned institutions within his/her
portfolio;
e. assist the Director, Banking Supervision with the identification and resolution
of existing and/or potential problems in the overall bankdng sector and identify
strategies to deal with those problems;
f provide on-the-job training of staff in the regulation and surveillance of problem
institutions;
g. direct the design and delivery, in conjunction with other specialists, of a training
program on Problem Institution Management for all Banking Supervision staff
as well as other BOT and industry participants;
h. identify any gaps in the regulatory framework relative to the supervision of the
financial sector and assist with the design of options to address these
weaknesses;
. assist the IMF Advisor to revise and/or document adequate methodology to
address the regulation and surveillance of problem institutions;
j. assist the IMF Advisor and other experts, as required, with the development of
a regulatory framework for the practical application of the supervisory powers
vested in the banking laws, regulations and guidelines;
5.    The consultants will be required to progressively transfer his/her knowledge,
know-how, and responsibilities to their local counterparts. The consultants will be
deemed accountable in this respect, and their performance will be evaluated on, among
other things, the extent to which such transfer actually takes places.
6.    The contracts will be renewable annually.
imin8 and Output
7.    The assigmnent is for two years and, for each consultant, will entail roughly eight
visits to Tanzania (one per quarter), each visit lasting roughly one month. At the
conclusion of each visit, the consultants will submit a report which details the work
accomplished during the visit and, in their relevant areas of responsibility, an updated
work program for counterpart staff. The consultants also will be called upon on a regular



77                             Annex 7.6
basis to provide input and output, either verbally or in writing, as required by the Director,
Banking Supervision and/or the IB Advisor and/or the Governor to support the proper
functioning of the Bankdng Supervision Directorate and/or the financial system as a whole.



78                               Annex7.7
BANK SUPERVISION
INTERNAL CONTROL SPECIALIST
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The aim of the Government of Tanzania's financial sector reform program is to
move from a concentrated inefficient government-owned financial system to a strong
privately-held competitive financial sector. The emergence of the latter is dependent on
the development of sound local and foreign financial institutions. To support the program,
many initiatives have been introduced or are underway. These include new banking
legislation passed in 1991 vesting in the central bank the powers to license, regulate and if
necessary, liquidate financial institutions.
2.    The Bank Supervision Directorate since its inception in its new form in 1991 has
undertaken to develop a strong supervisory methodology designed according to the US
based system of CAMEL (capital, assets, earnings and liquidity) to address the risk in the
financial system. As would be expected in a market seized with a significant level of non-
performing assets, the main focus of the work to date has been in the area of assessing and
quantifying the level of credit/asset risk, the adequacy of capital with some work being
completed to address corporate governance of the Board of Directors, as well as the role
and effectiveness of the internal and extemal auditors.
3.    As a result of the initial focus on asset risk as noted above, little work has been
completed to address the areas of position (treasury) or operations (systems) risk. In
order to move the development of the methodology forward and to keep pace with the
liberalization of the financial system reinforced by the development of open market
operations (OMO) in Tanzania, the Directorate of Banking Supervision now needs to
address these major risk areas to keep pace with the development of the financial system.
Objective
4.    The Bank Supervision Directorate of the Bank of Tanzania is receiving technical
assistance from the IMF in the form of a resident advisor. In addition, consultants are
required on a short term basis to: (1) complete, within the CAMEL framework, an
assessment of the overall internal control environment of the local financial institutions
with specific emphasis placed on the role of the Board, the treasury and systems areas
including wire payments and money laundering detection practices within these
institutions, (2) develop, with the assistance of the IMF Advisor, the methodology to
address all the major areas relating to the intemal control environment, (3) provide on-the-
job training to the examination staff to support their risk identification and risk mitigation
skills in these high risk areas, (4) direct and oversee the completion of a cross system
comparison of the internal control environments of the local financial institutions
specifically relating to treasury, systems, wire payments and money laundering and from
which to develop a best practices paper(s) on these key risk areas to provide to existing



79                               Annex7.7
institutions and to new entrants as a requirement of the licensing process, (5) assist in the
design and delivery of training programs for examination staff in these high risk areas,
including but not limited to treasury and systems and (6) revisit the existing regulations
and guidelines to address gaps or weaknesses, specifically relating to all areas of asset
liability management.
The Assignment
5.    The consultant will report to the Director, Banking Supervision but will be
supervised by the IMF Advisor. The incumbent, when on-site, will work in a line
examiner role and report to the Manager, Examinations or the Examiner-in-Charge and
will be specifically responsible for:
a)    the examination of the major financial institutions, including banks, non-
banks and bureaus, to assess the adequacy of the internal control
environment with specific emphasis on the role and control of the Board of
Directors, the management of the treasury operations, the systems and wire
payment controls as well as the procedures to detect, report and prevent
money laundering.
b)    revising and/or developing and documenting, in conjunction with the IMF
Advisor, adequate methodology to address the regulation and surveillance
of these high risk areas.
c)    on-the-job training of local staff in the examination of these high risk areas.
d)    developing a cross system comparison of the internal control environments
of these major financial institutions in these high risk areas, culminating in
the development of a best practices paper for dissemination across the
financial sector as well as being used as an assessment tool in the licensing
process for new entrants to the financial system.
e)    assisting the Director, Banking Supervision and the Governor through the
IMF Advisor, in delivering the results of the cross system review to the
senior management and the Board of Directors of the institutions surveyed
identifying their standing against their peer group and/or the industry as a
whole and identifying where corrective action is required and by when.
h)    directing the design and delivery, in conjunction with other specialists, of a
training program(s) regarding the assessment of the internal control
environment and the management and control of treasury operations and
systems for all Banking Supervision staff as well as select BOT and
industry participants.



80                               Annex7.7
i)    identifying any gaps in the regulatory framework overall and with specific
emphasis on the asset liability management operations of the major
financial institutions including, very broadly, liquidity management, interest
rate risk management, off-balance sheet and off-shore operations and
designing, in conjunction with the IMF Advisor possible options to address
these weaknesses.
j)     assisting the IMF Advisor and other experts, as required, with the
development of a regulatory framework for the practical application of the
supervisory powers vested in the banking laws, regulations and guidelines.
6.    The consultant will be required to progressively transfer his/her knowledge, know-
how, and responsibilities to their local counterparts. The consultant will be deemed
accountable in this respect, and their performance will be evaluated on, among other
things, the extent to which such transfer actually takes places.
7.    The contracts will be renewable annually.
Timing and Output
8.    The assignment is for two years and will entail roughly eight visits to Tanzania
(one per quarter), each visit lasting roughly one month. At the conclusion of each visit,
the consultant will submit a report which details the work accomplished during the visit
and, in its relevant areas of responsibility, an updated work program for counterpart staff.
The consultant also will be called upon on a regular basis to provide input and output,
either verbally or in writing, as required by the Director, Banking Supervision and/or the
Governor to support the proper functioning of the Banking Supervision Directorate and/or
the financial system as a whole.



81
ANNEX 7.8
TANZANIA
BANKING SUPERVISION DIVISION
METHODOLOGY DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The Government of Tanzania's is in the process of financial sector reforn. The aim is to move
from a concentrated inefficient government-owned financial system to a strong privately-held
competitive financial sector. The emergence of the latter is dependent on the development of sound
local and foreign financial institutions and, concurrently, to promote the development of a viable capital
market sector. To support these initiatives many programs have been introduced or are underway.
These include new banking legislation passed in 1991 vesting in the central bank the powers to license,
regulate and if necessary, liquidate financial institutions, as well as the establishment of a Capital
Markets Authority to promote the development of the stock market (including an OTC) and to ensure it
is designed with the appropriate regulations and control framework in place.
2.    In conjunction with the macro financial framework, the Banking Supervision Directorate since
inception in its new form in 1991, has undertaken to develop a strong supervisory methodology
designed according to the US based CAMEL system (capital, assets, eamings and liquidity). As would
be expected in a market seized with a significant level of non-performing assets, the main focus of the
on-site work to date has been in the area of assessing and quantifying the level of credit/asset risk, the
adequacy of capital, with some work being completed to address corporate governance of the Board of
Directors, as well as the role and effectiveness of the intemal and extemal auditors. As a result of this
initial focus on asset risk, little work has been completed to address the areas of position (treasury) or
operations (systems) risk. In order to move the development of the methodology forward and to keep
pace with the liberalization of the financial system and the development of open market operations
(OMO) in Tanzania, the Directorate of Banking Supervision now needs to address the remaining risk
areas and develop adequate methodology to guide its examination staff in their on-site supervisory
work.
3.    Additionally, a rudimentary system of off-site surveillance has been developed and is in
operation. However, the reporting requirements are incomplete, onerous and not well integrated with
other information requirements of the Bank of Tanzania (BOT). Consequently, a major revamping of
the system needs to be undertaken and a data base developed to support the examination staff and the
work of the financial analyst group.
4.     An equally important area which remains also to be addressed is the area of supervisory
powers and their proper application. A review of the current and proposed powers needs to be
undertaken to develop a framework in the form of guidelines regarding the application of the
supervisory powers, the circumstances in which the powers would be exercised and the legal,
accounting and other constraints restricting the enforcement of these powers.



82
ANNEX 7.8
Objective
5     The objective of the assignment is to co-ordinate and finalize the development of the on-site
methodology, review and amend the off-site surveillance system including the development of a
financial data base, as well as articulate the practical application of the regulatory powers to ensure
their consistent and transparent enforcement.
The Assignment
6.    Technical assistance will be expected to report directly to the Director, Banking Supervision
with a dotted line reporting relationship to the IMF Advisor to the Govemor of the BOT. The
incumbent will work in a line position with the intention that his/her understudy will assume the
responsibilities upon completion of the assignment. Specific responsibilities will include:
a)    develop a complete on-site examination methodology using the CAMEL framework,
which can be used by on-site examination staff in the completion of their supervisory
work. This will involve reviewing the methodology completed to date, amending
and/or upgrading it as required, and in co-operation with the Restructuring
Specialist(s), the Internal Control Specialist and the IMF Advisor to develop the
remaining segments of the CAMEL methodology such that all major risk areas are
documented including compliance with the laws and regulations.
b)    develop a complete off-site surveillance methodology and data base system by:
-      -review the current and proposed laws, regulations and guidelines in
order to ensure all major areas of risk are well addressed by the
regulatory framework and amend where necessary. This review will
be completed under the guidance of the Director, Banking Supervision
and the IMF Advisor as well as other technical assistance and support
as required.
-     co-ordinate the NBAA review results with the full review of the
existing regulatory reporting system   and amend the financial
institution reporting requirements as needed.
-     promote and co-ordinate feedback from the financial institutions and
the examination and financial analyst staff members regarding the
NBAA Teview, the regulatory reporting review exercise and the
proposed changes to the regulatory reporting requirements to obtain
their concurrence and support.
-     under the direction and guidance of the Director, Banking Supervision
and the IMF Advisor and following consultation with the staff of the
Banking Supervision Division, as well as the industry and other
regulatory agencies, develop the terms of reference for the Request
For Proposal for the development of a financial data base,
-     develop and co-ordinate and assume the leadership of the project team
charged with the data base project, including overseeing the design of
the templates required for the financial data, the establishment of



83
ANNEX 7.8
tolerances to ensure the data base incorporates an early waming
system in addition to any legal or regulatory compliance requirements.
c)     research and develop, with the support of the required technical assistance and with the
guidance of the Director, Banking Supervision and the IMF advisor, the guidelines
regarding regulatory powers and remedies to ensure their consistent and transparent
application.
d)     design and/or deliver and/or co-ordinate on-the-job training for local staff in any new
methodology introduced.
Output
7.    In line with the above responsibilities, the incumbent will be required to produce an on and off-
site manual for use by the staff of the Banking Supervision Division. In the case of on-site
examinations, individual modules will be required for all major risk areas for use on-site. Monitoring
modules will also be required for off-site surveillance. Guidelines regarding the application of the
regulatory powers also will need to be developed and approved.
Timing
8.     The assignment is for one year on a full-time basis with the option for a further year of part-
time short term follow-up assignments.



84                              Annex 7.9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR INSURANCE SUPERVISION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
The Government of Tanzania has undertaken a program of financial reform that is
to include the establishment of the system of supervision of insurance company operations
in the country. New legislation was drafted in 1994 and is expected to be passed shortly.
The authorities have concluded that it is necessary to establish a supervisory system of
insurance that is capable of supervising companies in Tanzania with the same standards of
analysis, inspection and control that prevail in the intemational market. Such a system will
enhance the confidence of the insuring public in Tanzania and will open the door to
ultimate participation of Tanzanian companies in the insurance markets of other countries.
In order to carry out this reform process, the Government has requested technical
assistance.
Having regard for the fact that the insurance industry was, until recently, entirely a
state-run operation and the fact that private sector participation is still very limited, and
there is a limited amount of professional insurance expertise available in the country, the
approach that is proposed is based on independent supervision by government authorities.
Cooperation and assistance from insurance professionals, as they start to take an active
part in the insurance community in the country, will be mandatory to the sucessful
implementation of a supervisory function.
Objectives
1.    The overall objective is to establish an effective supervisory system and thereby
promote confidence in the insurance market. The main components include:
.  drafting prudential regulations designed to strengthen the ability of the
regulatory agency to license, regulate and supervise insurance companies
including (1) establishing prudential controls and limits, such as exposure
limits, capital adequacy guidelines, and controls on related parties, (2)
establishing accounting standards and reporting, and (3) enforcing corrective
measures through legal sanctions and other remedies, with specific guidance on
dealing with troubled institutions.
.  developing an implementation plan for the introduction of prudential
regulations with specific targets and time parameters to ensure that compliance
is achieved within the phase-in period.
*  developing a plan for the establishment of the regulatory function, addressing
staffing and training requirements.



85                             Annex 7.9
reviewing and recommending changes to other legislation affecting the
insurance industry to ensure harmony among the various acts. Such acts
include but are not limited to the Companies Ordinance Act and the Tax Act.
2.    The consultant will be required to progressively transfer his/her knowledge, know-
how, and responsibilities to their local counterparts. The consultant will be deemed
accountable in this respect, and their performance will be evaluated on, among other
things, the extent to which such transfer actually takes places.
3.    The contracts will be renewable annually.
Outputs to be Prepared
4.    The major outputs would include:
i)   Manual of Regulations for insurers in Tanzania
ii)  Manual of accounting principles, practices and reporting guidelines for
insurers in Tanzania including the forms to be completed by insurance
companies when reporting their results.
iii) Implementation plan for the introduction of the Regulations to the insurance
industry in Tanzania.
iv)  Work plan for the establishment of the regulatory function including staffing
and training requirements.
v)  Recommended changes to legislation and regulation.
Skills and Experience Sought
5.    The consultant needs to have a knowledge of both accounting and insurance
regulation.  Experience in advising other regulatory agencies will be an assest.
Participants will also need to indicate how the work of the actuary will be taken into
account in the development of financial results and in reporting.



86
Annex7.10
TANZANIA
CREDIT INFORMATION BUREAU
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.   In 1991, the Government of Tanzania began implementation of its financial sector
reform program. The aim is to move from a concentrated inefficient government-owned
system to a strong private and competitive financial sector. To support these initiatives
many programs have been introduced or are underway. These include new banking
legislation, the establishment of a Capital Markets and Securities Authority to promote the
development of a stock market (including an OTC), as well as a recovery trust vehicle to
hold and recover the non-performing portfolios of the government owned banks. As well,
the major government-owned financial institutions are all cited for varying degrees of
privatization.  In addition, parastatal reform, which includes privatization, is also
underway.
2.    One major reason for the very poor condition of the existing financial market is the
lack of any formal mechanism to provide independent and reliable information on domestic
companies, their operations, their management and their credit records. Such a vehicle
would promote a credit and market discipline which would (1) help prevent a
reoccurrence of the severe solvency and non-performing loan problems in the system, (2)
promote the credit education of the market, including both bankers and borrowers alike,
to the benefits of timely and independently audited financial statements and (3) which, in
turn, would promote the development of the capital markets and the privatization efforts.
Objective
3.    The objective of the assignment is to conduct a feasibility study of the
establishment of an independent commercially viable credit information bureau in the
Tanzanian environment, identifying some of the organization and financial parameters for
its development. This might include the design of possible support mechanisms, as interim
measures, until such an agency was able to be self-sustaining.
The Assignment
4.    The assignment would be carried out in two phases.  Phase one would be
undertaken over a three month period and would include extensive research, study and
discussion with the key members of the financial system as well as commercial enterprises
in Tanzania, as well as major accounting and legal firms to determine whether the market
is sufficiently developed to support such a credit information bureau. More specifically,
the assignment would include:



87
Annex7.10
a) through discussion and/or questionnaire, survey the readiness of private and
state-owned companies and financial institutions to participate in such an
agency on a structured fee basis.
b) determine the capacity in the market to support such an agency, identifying the
tiers of players in the market and whether they could realistically be relied on to
support such an agency.
c) review with the BOT and major financial and industry members/groups the
potential ownership/membership structure for an agency. This review would
also include discussions with existing credit reference agencies in africa and
elsewhere.
d) review the legal framework and identify impediments/required changes and
determine the political will and the legislative implications of these impediments
and the anticipated time horizon for any projected amendments.
e) determine whether the establishment of an agency can be cost justified within a
reasonable time frame (up to three years) and identify potential support
mechanisms to carry it to sustainability and their cost implications.
f) outline in fair detail the type of technical and other assistance needed if an
agency were to be developed, including a component for credit education.
5.    If the recommendation from the stage one initial study is to proceed with the credit
agency concept and this recommendation is supported by BOT, the second stage
review/study would include an eight week detailed review of the undernoted:
g) a detailed market analysis of the potential market for credit agency services
h) a recommendation for the development of the agency in terms of the breadth
and depth of the product and service mix to be offered.
i) a detailed five year business plan including the recommendation for ownership
structure.
j) a detailed technical assistance plan to cover the period to commercial viability.
k) a detailed education plan for the financial system, including bankers, industry
and even households.
1) a total costing regarding projected required financial support over a three to
five year time horizon.
m) a detailed plan of action needed to move toward implementation.



88                            Annex7.10
Output
6.    The output for stage one will be a detailed report of the feasibility of the
establishment of a credit agency and should include a go/no go recommendation. In the
event the recommendation is to support the credit agency concept, this should include an
outline of the support mechanisms needed. Phase two would also produce a detailed
report at its conclusion, incorporating a detailed   plan of action to move to
implementation.
Timing
7.    The initial feasibility study will culminate in a report following a three month study
period. The BOT will digest the results over the month following the issuance of the
report, with the decision regarding Phase Two to be taken within that period. Phase two
will proceed within three months of the completion of Phase One and will be finalized with
eight weeks of commencement with a final report due at that time.



89                             ANNEX 7.11
IDA FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAYMENT SYSTEMS
CONSULTANT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    Introduction
1.1   The Tanzania Financial Institutions Development Project includes funding for the
development of efficient, secure, modern payment, clearing and settlement systems in
Tanzania. The first part of the Payment Systems component would be studies (to be
conducted by the consultants) which will take the project to the stage of bidding for
necessary equipment (hardware and software). The detailed Terms of Reference are given
below.
1.2   Negotiations and sign-off of the contract for the studies will be done by the client,
Bank of Tanzania, in the person of their designated officials.
1.3   To facilitate initial understanding of the Tanzanian Payment System, and of the
major issues involved, a note is attached as Annexure I.
2.    General Objectives
2.1   To eliminate, as far as possible, risks from payment, clearing and settlement
systems.
2.2   To speed up the exchange and settlement of funds and  securities to levels
comparable to those prevailing in major industrial economies.
2.3   To improve convenience and service to users, especially keeping in mind the low
coverage of bank branches in Tanzania.
2.4   To bring efficiency to Government receipts and payments and leverage them for
financial deepening of the economy.
2.5   To improve Bank of Tanzania's monetary management capabilities by reducing
float and supplying timely and accurate information on stock and flows of funds.
2.6   To migrate, in the long-term, from cash to more and more paperless modes of
payment.
3.    Common Principles
3.1    Compatibility of short-term with long-term plans.
3.2    Delivery of greater value to end-users.



90                              ANNEX 7.11
3.3    Reasonable pricing for cost-recovery.
3.4    Optimum integration and maximum standardization.
3.5    Open systems architecture, with modular expansion.
3.6    Consensus building, and participative arrangements.
4.    Deliverables
4.1    Specialist knowledge and  information  to  Bank  of Tanzania  and  other
banks/financial institutions to ensure that their time-phased plans for payments
modernization are based on best modem practice and are consistent with the objectives
and principles stated above.
4.2    Reports that incorporate Analysis, Options, Strategy and Plan of Action for
Payment Systems Reform and Modernization in Tanzania. These would include, among
others, the following:
4.2.1 Traffic Assessment - The present volume and value of payments and securities
traffic, and it's projected growth over the next 10 years, taking into account all local and
global factors, including improvements-induced traffic.
4.2.2 User Requirements - Appropriately detailed interim and final user requirements
including transaction flows and information processing & storage arrangements for each
of the areas mentioned in 4.2.3 below.
4.2.3 Complete conceptual architecture for meeting transaction, clearing and settlement
needs in the areas of:
*  High value funds transfer
*  Bulk funds transfer, including postal giro, if necessary
*  Consumer payments alternatives -ATMs, checks, POS, cards, etc.
*  Govt. receipts and payments
*  Securities holding, clearing and settlement systems
*  Int'l electronic payments, through SWIFT, or otherwise.
4.2.4 Draft enactments covering legal provisions relating to negotiable instruments,
frauds/forgeries and their deterrence through easily enforceable procedures, rapid dispute
redressal mechanisms, admissibility of electronically stored and transmitted data as
evidence in law, and general provisions covering financial transactions in keeping with the
best practices in modern legal systems. Appropriate review of existing laws, rules and
regulations such as the Clearing House Rules, Issuance of payment orders without
sufficient funds etc.



91                             ANNEX 7.11
4.2.5  Proposals for cost-effective optimization of the quality and availability of cash.
4.2.6 Acquisition Strategies - Appropriately detailed technical specifications for
incorporation into bidding documents for the acquisition of agreed hardware, software and
other essential services required for implementation of the conceptual architecture
mentioned in 4.2.3 .
4.2.7 Cost Estimates and Cost Recovery - Estimates of capital and operating costs in
respect of each of the components mentioned under 4.2.3, and pricing strategies for cost
recovery over suitable time-frames.
4.2.8 Migration and Implementation - Develop appropriate time-phased implementation
plans and methodology for migration from the short-term to the long-term.
5.    Methodology
The consultants would:
5.1   Interact with a Payments Steering Committee (or its sub-committees) consisting of
BoT, commercial banks and other financial institutions, which would have ownership of
the Payment Systems Reforms and Modernization.
5.2   Provide reports at agreed upon intervals to the client, with copies to the World
Bank/IDA, as follows:
*  A first stock-taking report, to be submitted at the end of one month from
commencement, that would confirm the background and issues in the Tanzanian
Payment System, including Traffic Assessment and User Needs. This would need to be
agreed with the client, before commencement of second part of the work is authorized.
*  A second report, to be completed within three months, that would cover the items
mentioned under 4.2.2 to 4.2.8. This would need to be agreed with the client.
*  Based on the above agreements, preparation of bidding documents for equipment,
hardware and software, in a period of two weeks.
5.3 Agree with the Payments Steering Committee the complete set of proposed Standards
in respect of instruments, messages, protocols, security codes et al.
5.4 Organize a workshop of relevant personnel in the financial community to identify non
directly related improvement opportunities, such as in the areas of credit, risk
management, customer support, securities and treasury.



92                             ANNEX 7.11
6.    Consultant Qualifications and Working Arrangements
6.1  The consultant must have broad experience in payments system  design and
development including up to date knowledge relating to the availability of relevant
software packages and data communications systems.
6.2 The consultant must have expert knowledge in commercial bank accounting
procedures and systems, central bank activities and payment system legal and regulatory
issues.
6.3 The consultant must have worked on payment system matters in multiple countries,
ideally in both developed and developing economies. Familiarity with payment system
business planning and project management experience is essential.
6.4 The consultant must have experience of both paper-based and paperless payments
applications. Experience of countrywide currency management systems will also be
required.
6.5 The consultant must be able to have the consultant team work on site for the majority
of the project. Most of the work will take place in Dar-es-Salaam, but visits will be
necessary to several other centers for assessment purposes. The costs associated with such
visits will be the responsibility of the consultant. The BoT will provide office space, phone
and fax services to support the consultant team, as required.
7.    Supplementary Information
7.1   Proposals will be evaluated according to the criteria given in the letter of
invitation and should include the following information:
* A brief description of the firm and an outline of recent experience on projects of
similar nature.
* Any comments or suggestions of the consultants on the Terms of Reference, and
description of plan for execution of work.
* The composition of the team of personnel and the task which will be assigned to each
member.
* Curriculum vitae of the individual team members and the senior officer responsible for
supervision of the team.
* Estimates of the total time effort that could be provided for the services, supported by
bar charts showing the staff weeks for each consultant.
* The consultants comments, if any, on the data, services and facilities to be provided by
BOT, as indicated in the Terms.



93                             ANNEX 7.11
7.2 In preparing the proposal, attention maybe given to the following:
*  Members of the team should have experience outside their own country, preferably
under conditions similar to Tanzania.
*  The majority of the personnel comprising the consultant's team, if not all, should be
drawn from the permanent staff of the firm.
*  Reports will be in English.



94                                  Annex 7.12
TANZANIA CAPITAL MARKETS SECURITIES AUTHORITY
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
1     Introduction. '[he impetus for capital market development stems from the financing needs of
the private sector and the Governnment's objective of broad-based ownership of privatized enterprises.
The recorded pipeline of private investment projects has grown steadily on the strength of Tanzania's
economic reform program. Loan applications to the local and external DFIs have grown substantially.
However, disbursements have been modest partly because of the inability of local investors to satisfy
the related equity requirements.  The limited supply of medium-term credit and outside equity
financing is a widely-perceived constraint to the further growth of the private sector.  The
Government's perception also is that the privatization program has been hampered by the absence of a
developed capital market which would enable broad participation in the program. The Government has
retained shares (ranging from 20% to 50%) in many of the parastatals which have been privatized: the
aim is to divest these shares to the public when appropriate mechanisms for doing so have been
developed.
2.     The Government recognizes that a capital market requires certain pre-conditions for its
successful operation. These include macroeconomic stability, low inflation, public confidence in the
economic and political environment, a sound banking system, and adequate accounting standards.
Many of these conditions do not exist in Tanzania, and their attainment will not be quick.
Consequently, the Government has elected to adopt a gradual approach to the development of capital
markets. To this end, in January, 1994 the Parliament approved a Capital Markets and Securities Act
(CMSA) to promote the gradual development of an efficient and fair capital market in Tanzania. The
Act envisages the creation of an Authority to oversee the securities market. Initially, the focus would
be on the development of a simple over-the-counter (OTC) dealer market in securities.
3.    OBJECTIVES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The objective is to establish a Capital
Markets and Securities Authority (CMSA) of high professional integrity, regulatory effectiveness
and operational efficiency. The responsibilities of CMSA would include: 1) coordinating donor
projects to develop capital markets; 2) licensing investment dealers, advisers and managers, and
security exchanges; 3) operating the regulatory regime for public offering of securities; and 4)
overseeing the conduct of the secondary market dealing in the post-issue period.
4.     The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for coordinating all activities related to
securities markets development in Tanzania. He/She is responsible for advising the Government to
enact new legislation and regulations or initiate changes to existing legislation and regulations in
order to facilitate and regulate the development of the securities industry. The CEO is also
responsible for the internal management of the CMSA. In the start-up phase, the CEO would have
overall responsibility for the CMSA's finances and for oversight of the finances of licensed
securities firms and of other securities service providers regulated by the Authority. He/She would
also act as a CMSA counterpart to the Bank of Tanzania in the regulation of capital adequacy.



95                                  Annex 7.12
Consultancy Requirements. During the start-up phase of the CMSA, consultants will be
required in the following areas.
A.    LEGAL COUNSEL
1.    Assist with preparation of a core set of regulations and legal documents necessary to start
operation of the Capital Markets Authority ("CMA"). Regulations to be drafted will include:
licensing (including prescribed forms), conduct of business principles and rules, advertising
regulations, financial resource regulations, registration and/or listing of securities regulations, and
collective investment schemes regulations.
2.     Provide periodic advice over a two year period to the Governor of the Bank of Tanzania and the
Chief Executive of the Capital Markets Authority on the establishment and operations of the CMA;
licensing of brokers, investment advisors and/or a stock exchange; registration of securities and/or
collective investment schemes, market development, enforcement; investor protection; and all other
related matters;
3.     Train the staff of the CMA; and
4.     Provide the above services in the course of 12 weeks of in-country work during the course of four
visits per year as well as another 4 weeks per year of work via phone, fax and so forth from the
consultant's home office.
B.    TRAINING FOR BROKERS
l .   Provide basic training of would-be Tanzanian stock brokers in accordance with the attached
"Details of Terms of Reference" for stockbroker training and course outline. In addition, the
consultant should provide training and course materials to local Tanzanians who will teach the
course in future years (without further consultant involvement). The training should make trainees
proficient in undertaking client transactions and in giving advice on Tanzanian securities. The
training should make the trainees sufficiently acquainted with securities law and regulation so as to
know when to seek advice and to act responsibly at all times. The training should set the standard
for basic competencc testing.
C.    PUBLICITY zND EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMME
Design and conduct basic publicity and educational programme for the general Tanzanian public,
including nationwide distribution of information. The programme should be simple but widespread to
inform the Tanzanian general public about stocks, the exchange, how to select a broker, the pros and cons
of participating and so forth. Specific consultant responsibilities will include:
1.    Develop suitable public relations materials
(a)    Review the "Blueprint for the Tanzanian Securities Market" in order to understand the
nature of the Tanzanian Securities Market,



96                                  Annex 7.12
(b)    Liaise with the Capital Markets Authority and the PPSRC to deepen understanding of the
intended policies and procedures for securities market operations;
(c)    Modify public relations materials prepared for use in other countries to meet Tanzanian
conditions and needs (or prepare original materials) as follows:
*      simple brochure providing information about what it means to own shares;
*      information about how to buy and sell stocks (e.g., through licensed broker) and
some common pitfalls and unscrupulous practices to avoid;
*      information about the Capital Markets Authority of Tanzania;
(d)    Subject the draft materials to review by the Capital Markets Authority, PPSRC and other
relevant parties in Tanzania;
(e)    Once the draft materials are finalized in English arrange for their translation into the
leading KisSwahili;
2.     Distribution of Written Materials
(a)    Prepare distribution plan designed to maximize distribution of the written materials
throughout the entire country and get CMA and PPSRC approval of the plan;
(b)    Arrange printing and distribution of written materials;
3.     Media Campaign
(a)    Prepare programme of interviews of CMA executives by members of the print, radio and
television media;
(b)    Prepare "script" for CMA executives to follow in interviews in order to ensure the keys
points made in the written materials are conveyed via other media as well;
(c)    Obtain the maximum amount of coverage possible for the forthcoming market and the
precautions average citizens should take when investing in the market.



97                                   Annex 7.12
D.    INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
Work with PPSRC, CMA, company involved and financial institutions to complete the first public
issue. Work will include, but not be limited to:
1.    Design distribution procedures so as to ensure efficiency is balanced by the objective of
maximizing the opportunities for all Tanzanians to participate;
2      Based on a valuation prepared by the current PPSRC consultants, determine, in conjunction with
PPSRC staff the offer price in such a way as to balance government objectives concerning getting
a fair price for the shares and maximizing the opportunity for all Tanzanians to participate;
3.     Work with PPSRC and other relevant parties to determine how many shares will be offered for
sale;
4.     Devise and recommend allotment procedures which are efficient and ensure that all the shares do
not end up in a few hands;
5.     Over the course of a 1-2 week period, provide a number of short 1-2 hour training sessions for
personnel all over the country (e.g., bank branch personnel) on how to handle the public issue --
how to distribute prospectuses, what should and should not be said re the quality of the investment,
how to fill out the forms and collect money, and so forth;
6.    Work with the company to establish a share registry; and
7.     Supervise the allotment processing and final distribution of shares.
E.  STOCK EXCHANGE BLUEPRINT
Based on the condition of the Tanzanian Securities Market after the initial start-up period of 12
months, prepare a stock exchange blueprint and item-by-item action plan for its creation together with
donor funding requests for Stage 2 start-up costs. Work will include, but not be limited to:
1.    Design and recomnmnend a viable organizational and ownership structure for the exchange and
deternine exchange staffing requirements;
2.     Design and recommnend realistic exchange procedures and trading rules;
3.     Design and recommend realistic exchange procedures and systems regulations for clearing,
settlement and depository activities;
4.     Recommend exchange fees and price of membership;
5.     Prepare basic budget for the start-up and on-going operational costs of the exchange as well as an
estimate of the cost of membership for brokers,
6.     Determine and recommend listing rules in sufficient detail as to permit the drafting of Listing Rules
by Legal Counsel;



98                                   Annex 7.12
7.     Specify, in detail, the training required for brokers, exchange staff, investment advisers, issuers,
corporate registrars and other types of participants in the stock market;
8.     Review Blueprint with the Capital Markets Authority, other relevant Government officials and
potential exchange members; make any necessary adjustments so that the plan can and will be
adopted; and
9.     Assist Government with the preparation of any needed requests for donor funding of startup costs
and initial two years of operations.
COMPOSITION OF THE TEAM
The team of consultants should be composed of:
1.    A legal counsel expert in drafting securities regulations in emerging markets and operating
securities regulatory agencies. The individual should have extensive experience in securities
markets located in Commonwealth countries including those in Africa..
2.     An expert in training would-be stockbrokers in the basics of the securities business. The individual
must have experience in conducting such training courses in African securities markets.
3.     An expert with experience in devising distribution methods for the public issuance of shares by a
parastatal being privatized, determination of offer prices, determination of allotment procedures
and supervision of allotment processing. The individual must have experience with public offers,
African securities markets and Commonwealth-style securities rules and regulations.
4.     An expert in stock exchange operation and development including regulation, conduct of business,
trading methods, organization, training of investment advisers and dealers, and interaction with
exchange membership. The individual must have experience in the management of securities
exchanges, establishing securities exchanges and African securities markets. The person will work
on the Stock Exchange Blueprint and preparations for Stage 2.
5      An expert in clearing, settlcment and depository systems. The individual must have experience in
designing, establishing and operating as well as with African securities markets. The person will
work on the Stock Exchange Blueprint and preparations for Stage 2.



Financiel In%61udion Devetopment
PwIcc Cost
(S  $)
ITEM                                      Year I                     Year 2                   Year 3                 Year 4                 Tot
_______________________________                    LocAl       External       Loec        External      Locad      External    LOA       External     Local      External       Total
BANK RESTRUCTURING                                      581,579      1,787,000     4s9,066     1,092,000     456,334    1,142,000     9,756         0        7,03     4,021,000   s,60s,03s
NBC                                                     422.s7s      1.262.000     330,066       $67,000     297.334      617.000      Q5           j    1.110.035    2,446.We       3,ss6,3s
Chieft perating Officer (36 months)                      69,000        180,000      69,000      1I0,000       69,000      180,000         0         0      207,000     540,000         747,000
Director of Finance (36 nonths)                          63,000        156,000      63,000       156,000      63,000      156,000         0         0      I89,000     468,000        657,000
Credi MAn    36 months)                                  63,000        156,000      63,000       156,000      63,000      156,000         0         0      189,000     468,000         657,000
Diagostic Evaluation                                     50,000        450,000           0            0            0           0          0         0       50,000     450,000         50w,0o
TA for Brsnch Sale and Creation of Joint Venture Subsidiary  177,379   270,000      135,066           0      102,334           0    59,756          0      475,035     270,000         745,035
Rural Branch PCs and Software                                 0         50,000           0        75,000           0      125,000         0         0           0      250,000         250,000
PBZ                                                      132_000       336,000      132.000      336,000     132.000      336,000         0         2      396.eo    I10L  10404.00
Chief Operating Ofricer (36 moths)                        69,000       180,000       69,000      180,000      69,000      1 80,0O         0         0      207,000     540,000         747,000
Diretor of Finance (36 months)                            63,000       156,000       63,000      156,000      63,00       156,000         0         0      189,000     468,000         657,000
MOF                                                      27,000        189.000       27.000      189.000       7 00       1 9,000        A         A       JAJ OZI0                    i000
3 Shout Termf Advisers (3 visits each per anmum) - Fees       0        144,000           0       144,000           0      144,000         0         0           0      432,000         432,000
3 Shoet Term Adviaer (3 visits each per annum) - Air Transport  0       45,000           0        45,000           0       45,000         0         0           0      135,000         135,000
3 Shbot Term Advisers (3 visits each per amnum) - Per Diem  27,000           0      27,000            0       27,000           0          0         0       81,000           0          31,000
FINANCIL INFRASTRUCTURE STRENGTHENING                   694,978       1,518,494    579,59      1,197,719     304,500      251,000   300,000   100,000    1,&79,077    3,067,213      4
Bank Ssper'ts1o                                         41            1.241.,S4    25.09         783JI9        U                  UO      Q                700 077    0o4  13        2     t748
2 Restructuring Specialists                              108,000       336,000      108,000      336,000           0           0          0         0      216,000     672,000         88o,000
nternal Control Specialist                              108,000        336,000           0            0            a           0          0         0      108,000     336,000         444,000
Mehodology Speciali=t                                    63,000        156,000      63,000       156,000           0           0          0         0      126,000     312,000         438,000
Methodology Specialists (short term)                      9,000        166,000      24,000       151,000           0           0          0         0       33,0O0     317,00O         350,000
Traning                                                  123,978       247,994       70,099      140,219      23,000       23,000         0         0      217,077     411,213         628,290  >
33.WO        126la         64500       164.5W0      31.500       78S000         I         2      129         369.00 -  ooo            x
Ismwrance Advisor                                         31,500        78,000       63,000      156,000      31,500       78,000         0         0      126,000     312,000         438,000  x
Vehicle                                                       0         30,000           0             0           0o                     0         0            0      30,000          30,000
Conputer                                                      0         10,000           0             0           0            0         0         0            0       10,000         10,000
Training                                                   1,500         8,500        1,500        8,500           0           00                   0        3,0O       17,000          20000



Financial Inltitution Devclopmnit
Poct Cost
ITEM                                    Year I                    Year 2                   Year 3                Year 4                ToWal
___ ___ Local  Exteral    Local      Externl       Local      Externl    Leod    External    Local        Exterral       Totwl
Shtdles Fund                                           250_000       19250I000                  0   250.000           150,000   300.000   100,000    1.050.000       000        1.700,000
Studies (identified)                                   100,000       100,000     100,000      200,000     100,000     100,000   150,000    50,000     450,000     450       ,000 900,0eo
Other TA                                               150,000        50,000     150,000       50,000     150,000      50,000   150,000    50,000     600,000     200,000        800,000
CAPITAL MARKETS                                        155,500       623,500     207,000      551,375     153,500     404,000        0         0      516,000    1,583,875      2,09T,875
COaital Markett and Securides Auithority                80,500       3285        144500       301375       91.000     154.000         0         0     316,000     7t.ffl.8
Office of the Chief Executive Officer (36 months)       69,000       120,000      69,000      180,000      34,500      90,000         0         0     172,500     450,000        622,500
Legal Advisor                                                0             0      13,000       50,500          0            0         0         0      13,000      50,500         63,500
Training of Stock Brokers                                1,500         8,500       1,500        2,500       1,500       8,500         0         0       4,500      25,500         30,000
Publicity Program                                       10,000        10,000      10,000       10,000      10,000      10,000         0        0       30,000      30,000         60,000
Other Techriical Assistance                                 0              0      51,000       52,375      45,000      45,500         0         0      K,000       97,875        193,875
Cormputen, software td office equipmet0                              100,000           0            0          0           0          0         0           O     100,000        100,000
Vehicle                                                     0         30,000          0            0           0           0          0         0           0      30,000         30,000  C
PTF                                                                  300000       62.500       50000       62500      250.000        0         0      200000      80000         Looo.ooo
Maagmen Conrbadc                                        75,000       300,000      62,500      250,000      62,500     250,000        0         0      200,000     300,000       I,00,000
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                     112,000            S      158,000           0      125,000          0    50,000         0      445,000          0         445,000
Launda Workshop                       10,000            0           0            0           0           0         0         0       10,000          0          10,000
Incremental Operting Codts               102,000            0      158,000           0      125,000          0    50,000         0      435,000          0         435,000
B"e Costs                                            1,54,357      3,933,S94    1,433,665   2,841,094    1,039,334    1,797,000   409,756   100,000   4,427,112    8,672,088   13,09S,200
Cortingenrcies                                          30,287        78,680      35,842       71,027      28,062      48,519    10,24      2,500     105,035     200,726        305,761
TOTAL COST                                           1,575,244     4,012,674    1,469,507    2,912,121    1,067,396    1,845,519   420,000   102,500    4,532,147    8,872,814  13,404,961
B
X
co



101                                Annex 9
TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANNING FOR PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP
DATE:               June 1995
AGENDA:             Financial Sector Reform Agenda; Procurement; Disbursements,
Accounts and Audits; Budgeting and Reporting; Planning for all
studies; other Project Implementation Issues.
DURATION:           3 full working days (1 night)
LOGISTICS:          Residential
PARTICIPATION: BOT: Directorate of Financial Markets         2
BOT: Banking Supervision Directorate    2
NBC                                     2
PSRC                                    2
MOF                                      I
CMSA                                     I
10
IDA: 3 Professionals from Washington
(including I Banking Consultant)        3
total number of participants             13
Cost' : Hotel rooms and meals for Tanzania participants (10 above)
(i.e.) 10 persons x I night x 300/day                 $ 3,000
Rental of hotel meeting room 2 days x $250                500
Estimated Cost included in Project                     10,000
IDA would pay all own costs.



102                               ANNEX 10
SUPERVISION PLAN
APPROXIMATE   ACTIVITY                          EXPECTED SKILLS (STAFF WEEKS)
DATE
June 1995             Supervision               Task Manager (2)
Mission\Project Launch    Financial Officer (2)
Banking Specialist (2)
Capital Markets\Privatization Specialist (2)
August 1995          Supervision Mission        Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)
November 1995        Supervision Mission        Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)
Banking Specialist (1)
February 1996        Supervision Mission        Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)
May 1996             Supervision Mission        Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)
October 1996          Supervision Mission       Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)
March 1997           Supervision Mission/Mid-  Task Manager (2)
Term Review               Financial Officer (2)
Banking Specialist (2)
Capital Markets\Privatization Specialist (2)
June 1997             Supervision Mission       Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)



ANNFX IO
103
APPROXIMATE          ACTIVITY                 EXPECTED SKILLS (STAFF
DATE                                          WEEKS)
October 1997         Supervision Mission      Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)
February 1998        Supervision Mission      Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)
August 1998          Final Supervision Mission  Task Manager (1)
Financial Officer (1)



104
Annex 11
Financial Institutions Development Project
Monitorable Indicators
MONITORABLE INDICATORS
Bank Restructuring
NBC
1. Prepare Pro Formas and Finalize Branches to be Sold                   June 1995
2. Complete Logistical Plan Associated with NBC Privatization             June 1995
3. Approve Tenns and Conditions for Bidders/Investors                     June 1995
4. Install New Experienced Bank Line Management Team at NBC               May 1995
5. Complete Restructuring Plan of retained NBC                            June 1995
6. Implement Rural Branch Reconfiguration and "Bad" Bank Subsidiary       June 1995
7. Negotiate Sale/Investment/Joint Venture                             October 1995
8. NBC JV International/Corporate Subsidiary Opens                     October 1995
9. Begin Operations of Branches Under New Management                   October 1995
PBZ
1. Appoint Chief Operating Officer and Financial Controller            October 1995
2. Finalize Restructuring Plan                                       December 1995
MOF
1. Appoint Short Term Banking Advisor                                     July 1995
Financial Infrastructure Strengthening
Bank Supervision
1. Short Term Specialist Resources to be hired:
Restructuring Specialist                                        December 1995
Internal Control Specialist                                         April 1996
2. Increase Banking Supervision Division by five professional staff  December 1995
3. Managing Financial Institutions Course to be completed            December 1996
4. Complete review of laws, regulations and guidelines finalized     September 1996
5. Increase Banking Supervision Division by additional five professional  March 1996
staff (10 cumulative)
6. Amendments to laws, regulations and guidelines (4 above) drafted for
approval                                                          December 1996
7. Regulatory reporting refinement exercise and NBAA review completed  December 1996
8. Data base development for off-site monitoring to commence            March 1997
9. Ladders of Compliance guidelines issued upon finalization of the       June 1997
amendments to the Banking Act, Regulations and Guidelines
10. All specialist TA to be finalized                                December 1997
11. On-site Examination Manual completed                             December 1997
Capital Markets
Capital Markets Securities Authority
1. Appoint Chief Executive Officer                                       May 1995
PTF
1. Submit legislation establishing PTF to Parliament                      June 1995
2. Appointment of Trustees                                             August 1995
3. Appointment of Management Company                                  December1995
4. Launching of PTF                                                     March 1996



105                           ANNEX 12
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Reviewi of the zinsturanice Iniduistry anid Legislative F'ramewiork inl Ta7nzania. National
Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited. June 30, 1992.
2.    Reggulatoty Framework *for Capital A'iarkeIs anid the  Securities Indulstry inl
Tanzania: 1sinlial Draft Regulantioni.s. Capital Markets Unit Bank of Tanzania, Dar
Es Salaam.
3.    hle Tacnzanfianl Secuitiiies M1a rket A I'lani of Actioni Prepared by E.R. Astin and Eric
G. Postel of Pangaea Partners, Ltd. July 1994
4.    Draft Privatization Trust Deed
5.    National Bank of Commerce Financial Data. June 1994.
6.    Tanzania Capital Markets and Securities Act 1994.
7.    United Republic of T'anzania, 1991, LART Legislation.
8.    United Republic of Tanzania, 1991, Banking and Financial Institutions Regulation.
9.    Bank of Tanzania Guidelines on Concentration of Credit and other Exposure Limits.
10.   Bank of Tanzania Banking Supervision Directorate Circulars:
a.    Reserves A(Yainst Deposits & Coverage
b.    Foreign Exchange Cover
C.    Capital Adequacy
d.    Liquidity
e.    Loan Classification, Provisioning and Accrual of Interest.
11.   Bank of Tanzania Policy and Procedural Guidelines on the Licensing of Banks and
Financial Institutions.
12.   Bank of Tanzania Banking Supervision Directorate Organization Chart.
13.   Bank of Tanzania Examination Procedures.
14.   Bank of Tanzania Off-Site Reporting.
15.   Report on Banking Law. Prepared by Steptoe & Johnson. January 1994.









IMAGING
Repor t No:      13713 TA
Type: SAR



