Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20252
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2771-TA)
March 30, 2000
Private Sector and Finance
Economic Management and Social Policy Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit: Tanzania Shilling
US$1 = TShs 800 (February, 2000)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of Borrower
July 1-June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BOT       -     Bank of Tanzania
CRDB      -     Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
DBS       -     Directorate of Banking Supervision
DCA       -     Development Credit Agreement
GOT       -     Government of Tanzania
GOZ       -     Government of Zanzibar
IDA       -     International Development Association
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
MOU       -     Memorandum of Understanding
NBC       -     National Bank of Commerce
NIC       -     National Insurance Corporation
NMB       -     National Microfmance Bank
PBZ       -     People's Bank of Zanzibar
SAC       -     Structural Adjustment Credit
SME       -     Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE       -     State-owned Enterprise
ZIC       -     Zanzibar Insurance Corporation
Vice President             :     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director           .     James W. Adams
Sector Manager             :     Gerard A. Byain
Task Team Leader           .     Antony Thompson



Table of Contents FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
Implementation Experience and Results                                   i
Future Operations                                                      1ii
Key Lessons learned                                                    iv
PART l: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                 I
A. Background                                                           ]
B. Statement of Project Objectives and Evaluation of Design            2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                                   3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program                                 5
E. Implementation Record                                               6
F. Program Sustainability                                              7
G. Bank Performance                                                    7
H. Borrower Performance                                                8
1. Assessment of Outcome                                               8
J. Future Operations                                                   8
K. Key Lessons Learned                                                 9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                             11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                       13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits                                1 4
Table 3: Project Timetable                                             15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and
Actual Disbursements                                           1 5
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                     16
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants                                    17
Table 7: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs                                 20
Table 8: Bank Resources; Missions                                     20
PART HII: APPENDIXES                                                      I
APPENDIX I:                                                            3
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT                                                      3
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
i



TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2771-TA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Institutions
Development Project in Tanzania for which IDA Credit 2771-TA in the amount of SDR7.5
million (US$10.9 million equivalent) was approved on August 3, 1995 and made effective on
February 23, 1996.
The credit, which was fully disbursed, was closed on June 30, 1999. The last
disbursement was on June 28, 1999. The credit was fully funded by IDA and had no co-financiers.
The ICR was prepared by John Byamukama with the guidance of Gerard Byam, Antony
Thompson and Paul Murgatroyd, Task Team Leaders for the Financial histitutions Development
Project and Lead Specialist respectively. It is based on discussions with the Government during an
ICR mission, supervision reports and material in the project files. In addition to commenting on
the draft ICR, the Borrower also contributed their own evaluation of the project's preparation and
execution, which is attached as an appendix to the ICR.



i
I



TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2771-TA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The Financial Institutions Development Project was designed to build upon the limited
achievements under FSAC and to provide technical assistance required for the implementation of
the remaining reforms in the financial sector. The project would support measures to enable the
Government to regain the momentum for financial sector reform by addressing the fundamental
weaknesses in the sector. It would also build the foundation for diversification of financial
instruments.
2.    Specifically, FIDP was meant to support the following: (a) the restructuring and
privatization of the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and the restructuring of the smaller
People's Bank of Zanzibar (PBZ) so as to encourage competition and efficiency in the banking
sector; (b) continued strengthening of the Bank Supervision Directorate (BSD); (c) improvements
to the payments system; (d) the creation of a private credit information bureau; and (e) the
development of the insurance industry and capital markets. Of these, the restructuring of NBC
was clearly of the greatest importance and priority. The objectives of FIDP were appropriate and
in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy which aimed at assisting the Government to
reduce poverty through an acceleration in the pace of structural reform and the provision of
infrastructure and social services (especially targeted to the poor).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The implementation record early in the project was strong as evidenced by actions taken
prior to Credit effectiveness. A diagnostic evaluation of NBC was carried out at the beginning of
1995 following which a business plan and memorandum of understanding with the Government
were prepared and agreed with IDA. Consultants were appointed to manage the bank and a
banking advisor to the Ministry of Finance was also appointed.
4.    The implementation of all the components of the project, except the bank restructuring
component, had started off well and were only interupted when resources were shifted to the
more urgent task of first restructuring and then privatizing NBC. Training in Bank supervision in
the handling of problem institutions and on-site examination was carried out under the project
together with the assistance of Bank Supervision Advisors provided under theIMF's technical
assistance program. At the same time, the Capital Markets and Securities Authority became



operational and the first phase of the payments system modernization component was completed.
The study on the feasibility of a credit information bureau was also completed.
5.    After initial resistance to the goal of privatizing NBC throughout the project preparation
period, considerable time was spent developing consensus on the privatization strategy for NBC.
Despite the retrenchment of roughly 3,000 employees, a doubling of commissions and a 50
percent reduction in deposit rates, and the recruitment of professional bankers in managerial
positions, the bank did not achieve the profitability target nor was credit management sufficiently
improved. The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was successful, however, in constraining
NBC's activities and minimizing the bank's losses. A secondary impact was to reduce its market
share. Nevertheless, it became increasingly difficult to maintain the political consensus for
restructuring the former NBC given the contraction in the provision of financial services. The
Government in the end adopted a more radical restructuring plan aimed at facilitating
privatization while improving and expanding the delivery of financial services to small savers.
This strategy culminated in the split of NBC in October 1997 into two banks, the NBC (1997) and
the National Microfinance Bank (NMB).
6.    Overall, the main project development objective was to encourage competition in the
commercial banking sector through the restructuring and privatization of government-owned
banks and continued entry of new private banks. While some considerable competition had been
introduced in the sector, especially in the capital Dares Salaam, through the entry of several
private banks, the project's objective was considerably advanced by the split of NBC into two
banks, NBC (1997) and NMB, and a holding company in October 1997. The Borrower made
satisfactory progress in reducing the market share of deposits for both banks to about 54 percent
by the end of 1998 and also in identifying a strategic buyer for NBC (1997). Amalgamated Bank
of South Africa (ABSA) won the bid to purchase 70 percent of NBC (1997) in early 1999 and
negotiations for the final sale agreement are scheduled to be completed in April 2000.
7.    The initial attempt to privatize NMB was not successful. The Government recognized
that the privatization of NMB was premature given the need to transformNMB's basic business
line to cater for small-scale financial services and its weak financial foundation. A bond issue to
bring the bank's net worth to zero, donor financing of a substantial portion of the start-up costs,
and the recruitment of professional bankers and microfinance experts under a management
contract, were all viewed as essential elements of the privatization strategy. However, these
actions were delayed and this, together with the unusual business franchise of NMB, contributed
significantly to the lack of serious interest by potential investors. The Government has of recent
moved to address these issues. The management contractors were recruited and started work at
NMB in July 1999, the Government issued 90 percent of the requiredrecapitalization bonds in
September 1998, and the bank's final accounts have been prepared.
8.    Due to the amount of resources and effort required to restructure NBC, caused primarily
by delays in finalizing the restructuring strategy, the planned restructuring of People's Bank of
Zanzibar (PBZ) was put on hold. The PBZ is the principal commercial banking institution in
Zanzibar but it represented only 1.6 percent of the assets of the Tanzania banking system at the
end of 1999. It is a small bank, 100 percent owned by the Zanzibar Ministry of Finance. The
original objective under the project was to convert PBZ into a viable bank and place it under
private management. When this plan did not materialize, BOT placed two supervisors in PBZ and
withheld the decision to renew its banking license (it expired on December 31, 1998) until
fundamental decisions have been made and implemented to resolve PBZ's insolvency. The
ii



Government has now decided to address the problems at PBZ under the Second Financial
Institutions Development Project which is expected to become effective in the first half of
calendar 2000.
9.    IDA's performance is assessed as highly satisfactory. The Bank was flexible especially in
terms of resource allocation and when it became obvious that more funds were required for the
critical component of NBC privatization, funds were re-allocated from other components to the
NBC activities. The Bank consulted extensively with the Government and all stakeholders at
preparation and implementation stages (including joint participation of the Swiss Development
Corporation) as can be evidenced from the staff inputs and resources that were committed to the
project throughout its lifetime (see Table 7 in the Annex). Although there was no formal mid-term
review at which the project was restructured, the intensive supervision combined with the
flexibility of the Bank resulted in a continuous restructuring throughout the life of the project
which resulted in the positive outcome of resolving the important NBC privatization.
10.   Borrower performance was satisfactory despite the length of time it took to reach decision
on the NBC privatization strategy. Because of the importance of the NBC to the Tanzanian
financial sector, the Borrower concentrated most of its efforts and resources under the Project on
NBC's restructuring and privatization. Even then, there was lack of agreement on which strategy
was best suited for the downsizing of the bank and it took almost two years to reach a final
decision. Procurement under the project was coordinated by the Bank Supervision Department of
BOT with assistance from the staff of the Resident Mission. This aspect of the project was
generally properly managed, except in a few instances where the World Bank procedures were not
followed.
11.   The outcome of the project is rated highly satisfactory. The most important component of
the project central to financial sector development in Tanzania was the bank restructuring and
privatization component. The challenge of doing. this, given the political and economic
environment obtaining, should not be under-estimated. This component was implemented
successfully with the split of NBC and finding a potential buyer for NBC (1997) together with the
appointment of a management contractor to turn NMB into a sustainable micro-finance
institution. Although a number of the other components of the project were left uncompleted, this
is understandable given that resources originally allocated to them were shifted to the core and all
important bank restructuring component. Moreover, the issue of NBC dominance in the banking
sector has got settled thereby setting the process of financial sector development in Tanzania on a
sustainable path. Privatization was notmentionable during the preparation stages of FIDP. Now
the Govemment's policy is to privatize all the remaining state-owned banks.
Future Operations
12.   The Govemment approached the Bank seeking assistance for a second FIDP which would
provide support as the Government pursues its bank privatization program to conclusion. The
FIDP II program was approved by the Board in August 1999. Specifically, under FIDP II, the
focus shifted to: (i) restructuring and/or privatizing all the remaining state-owned banks including
transforming the NMB into a private micro-finance bank; (ii) strengthening the supporting
financial infrastructure by, inter-alia, enhancing the capacity of the central bank to supervise
iii



banks and by improving the efficiency of the national payments system; and (iii) increasing
savings and investment opportunities by promoting the development of contractual savings and
capital markets. The Government has also received assistance from IDA to prepare a Rural and
Micro-financial Services Project which is expected to become effective in April 2000. Its
objective is to develop a common policy framework which will establish an enabling environment
for rural and micro-finance and facilitate the inflow of quality investments into the sector. These
actions would lead to increased access by rural savers and micro entrepreneurs to the formal
financial system, reduced Government ownership of the banking sector, and improved soundness
of the banking system. Another anticipated future activity is a financial sector assessment which
will undertake a comprehensive assessment of Tanzania's financial sector.
Key Lessons learned
13. Several main lessons can be drawn from this operation:
(i) Boards of Directors of state-owned banks who are publicly appointed have no commercial
objectives to run the banks and tend to have political agendas, advocating for increased services
and growth without regard to the growth of profits
(ii) Commitment of the Borrower to and ownership of the reform program is key to successfil
implementation of reforms. At the same time, the Government requires some champions within
its ranks who will sell the benefits of the program to both the politicians and the general populace.
(iii)A lot of time and resources are required to build consensus among the key decision makers
and the population at large on the strategy to be followed in privatizing state-owned banks.
Similarly, capacity building in the in the Central Bank to supervise the financial system is also a
long term rather than short term exercise.
(iv) Management contracts for distressed state-owned banks can only work if the Government and
the Central Bank are in agreement on what the final output from the management contract should
be. This includes a willingness to enforce compliance with the business plan targets and effective
oversight of the performance of the management contractor. Such oversight may consume
considerable supervision resources.
iv



TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2771-TA)
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The Government of Tanzania initiated its financial sector reform program in 1991 with
the support of an IDA financial sector adjustment credit (FSAC). The aim of the program was to
create a financial system that operates on the basis of market-oriented principles, is efficient in
mobilizing and allocating resources, and effective in fostering long-term economic growth.
Specifically, the program envisaged the passing of new banking laws and prudential regulations,
allowing the entry of private foreign and domestic banks into the sector, restructuring of the then
three state-owned commercial banks, legislation to promote private sector participation in
insurance, and initial steps to promote the emergence of a capital market in Tanzania.
2.    The reform program under the previous FSAC proceeded much slower than expected
partly because of a slow pace of associated reforms in the real sector and a deterioration in
macroeconomic management in 1992/93, and partly because of the difficulties in changing the
behavior of managers of the state-owned financial institutions. FSAC thus attained only partial
success. The program legally deregulated and liberalized the banking system. However, it failed
to accomplish the intended restructuring of the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) with the
effect that despite the opening of private banks, meaningful competition in the sector was still
lacking.
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators, 1991-98
(in percent)
Indicator                         FY91    FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
GDP growth rate                       2.8   1.8   1.2   0.6    3.6   4.2   3.3    3.7
Budget deficit/surplus (percent of GDP)  -5.5   1.1  -8.2  -11.8   -7.0   -1.4    8.7  -2.8
Annual inflation (period average)    28.7  21.8  25.2  33.1   29.8   19.7   16.1   12.8
M2 growth                            22.8  34.1   32.9   33.3   29.9   4.9   9.1   10.5
Source: International Financial Statistics



B. Statement of Project Objectives and Evaluation of Design
3.    Statement of Objectives. The Financial Institutions Development Project was designed
to build upon the limited achievements under FSAC and to provide technical assistance required
for the implementation of the remaining reforms in the financial sector. The project would support
measures to enable the Government to regain the momentum for financial sector reform by
addressing the fundamental weaknesses in the sector. It would also build the foundation for
diversification of financial instruments.
4.    Specifically, FIDP was meant to support the following: (a) the restructuring and
privatization of the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and the restructuring of the smaller
People's Bank of Zanzibar (PBZ) so as to encourage competition and efficiency in the banking
sector; (b) continued strengthening of the Bank Supervision Directorate (BSD); (c) improvements
to the payments system; (d) the creation of a private credit information bureau; and (e) the
development of the insurance industry and capital markets.
5.    Evaluation. The concept and design of FIDP were appropriate and in line with the
Bank's country assistance strategy which aimed at assisting the Government to reduce poverty
through an acceleration in the pace of structural reform and the provision of infrastructure and
social services (especially targeted to the poor). The former included continual restructuring of the
banking sector which, because of substantial losses, had diverted public funds away from higher
priority social expenditures. One of the criteria for determining Tanzania's eligibility for
substantial IDA support under the country assistance strategy was improvements in the operation
of public sector banks, including stemming losses, increases in the quality of their portfolios, the
introduction of private management and eventual divestiture.
6.    The FIDP was designed with the lessons learnt from the failure to restructure the banking
system under FSAC in mind. It was no longer assumed that the emergence of competitive private
banks would gradually erode NBC's market share. Instead a more aggressive strategy to downsize
the NBC and slow its growth was adopted. In 1995, NBC's market share in terms of deposits of
the banking system was slightly over 80 percent. The project also was to finance a management
team for NBC whose performance would be evaluated on the basis of the bank's financial
performance as measured by time-bound and monitorable performance targets. However, given
the experience in difficulties involved in restructuring a state-owned bank in Tanzania and
elsewhere in Africa, the project design seems to have underestimated the amount of effort and
resources necessary to complete the exercise. Maybe the project should have focused its energies
on the bank restructuring and left out some of the other components for consideration in a future
operation. With the benefit of hindsight, this is what eventually materialized. However, an
advantage of the project design having multiple components was that this allowed for
diversification of risk making it possible to quickly re-direct resources into the faster moving
components as was the case when the NBC restructuring component became more demanding.
7.    The risks facing the program were identified at the design stage, taking into account
Tanzania's financial sector reform experience under FSAC. The risks were evaluated and deemed
to be manageable. Most notable was a possible reversal of the Government's stated commitment
to the NBC's commercialization. Actions required for the significant downsizing of NBC were
started early in the project's implementation. In addition, NBC management was to be required to
2



enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Government which would be strictly
monitored and enforced by Bank of Tanzania. Another risk addressed by the project was guarding
against the rapid opening up of Tanzania's capital market in the absence of an appropriate
regulatory framework. The project would support the gradual evolution of the capital market
while putting in place an appropriate regulatory framework. The third risk identified was the
possible lack of sufficient technical capacity within Tanzania to address the project's complex
issues, especially with regard to bank restructuring. The project provided for regular supervision
visits by IDA staff, including staff at the Resident Mission, who would liaise closely with
Government officials during the project's implementation.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    Overall, the main project development objective was to encourage competition in the
commercial banking sector through the restructuring and privatization of government owned
banks and continued entry of new private banks. While some considerable competition had been
introduced in the sector, especially in the capital Dares Salaam, through the entry of several
private banks, the project's objective was considerably advanced by the split of NBC into two
banks, NBC (1997) and National Microfinance Bank, and a holding company in October 1997.
The Borrower made satisfactory progress in reducing the market share of deposits for both banks
to about 54 percent by the end of 1998 and also in identifying a strategic buyer for NBC (1997).
Amalgamated Bank of South Africa (ABSA) won the bid to purchase 70 percent of NBC (1997)
in early 1999 and negotiations for the final sale agreement are scheduled to be completed in April
2000. The IFC recently agreed to take a 20 percent equity stake in NBC (1997) thereby reducing
ABSA's stake to 50 percent.
9.    Due to the amount of resources and effort required to restructure NBC, caused primarily
by delays in finalizing the restructuring strategy, the planned restructuring of People's Bank of
Zanzibar (PBZ) was put on hold. The PBZ is the principal commercial banking institution in
Zanzibar but it represented only 1.6 percent of the assets of the Tanzania banking system at the
end of 1999. It is a small bank, 100 percent owned by the Zanzibar Ministry of Finance but with a
high political profile and symbolic importance. It currently has three branches and 238 employees.
The main reasons for its poor financial status included a very weak loan portfolio resulting from
very poor credit policies, a failure to previously recognize non-performing assets and make
provisions for them, and up to 1993, performing functions on behalf of the Government of
Zanzibar which were not traditionally associated with commercial banking. The original
objective under the project was to convert PBZ into a viable bank and place it under private
management. When this plan did not materialize, BOT placed two supervisors in PBZ and
withheld the decision to renew its banking license (it expired on December 31, 1998) until
fundamental decisions have been made and implemented to resolve PBZ's insolvency. The
Government has now decided to address the problems at PBZ under the Second Financial
Institutions Development Project which is expected to become effective in the first half of
calendar 2000.
10.   Associated with the improvement of the health of banks was the need to create a formal
mechanism for sharing credit information among financial institutions. The project financed a
feasibility study to determine if there was a potential market for a credit information bureau in
Tanzania and whether it could become self-sustaining within a three year time frame. The study
was carried out and concluded that such a market exists and the new FIDP project has included a
3



component that would finance the start up costs of the bureau if the local Bankers' Association is
ready to invest in the bureau.
11.   The other major objective of the FIDP was the strengthening of banking supervision and
regulation. This objective was also achieved. The Banking Supervision Directorate evolved
strongly as a result of a series of banking laws and prudential regulations developed during project
implementation. The number of qualified bank supervisors increased from 37 in 1995 to 57 by the
middle of 1999, responsible for supervising the existing 17 commercial banks. With training
courses financed under FIDP and additional assistance from the IMF, the Directorate developed
most of the basic skills necessary to conduct banking examinations and now systematically
conducts on-site examinations of all financial institutions under its authority. Examination
methodologies for both on-site and off-site inspection were developed and a basic set of
regulations to support the legislative framework, including policy and procedural guidelines for
the licensing of new banks and other financial institutions, was put in place. In addition, the
implementation of an effective off-site monitoring system was improved through systematic
analysis of standardized weekly, monthly and quarterly reporting forms for financial institutions.
12.   The third project development objective was the establishment of a regulatory structure
for securities markets and insurance, as well as developing a corporate securities market. Due to
the high demand for resources for the restructuring of NBC beyond what was originally
envisaged, only the regulatory structure for securities markets was set up under the project. The
Capital Markets and Securities Authority was set up with funding from the FIDP. The project
provided technical assistance to promote the development of a capital market keeping in mind the
Government's preference for a simple and evolutionary approach. Specially, assistance was
provided for:
* the drafting and completion of a core set of enabling regulations
* an external advisor to provide regular assistance over the course of two years to the
Authority on a wide variety of regulatory and market development matters;
* basic training of would-be stock brokers;
*  basic publicity and education program for the general public, including nationwide
distribution of information;
* technical assistance to complete the first public issue including design of distribution
procedures, determination of offer prices, determination of allotment procedures;
provision of short 1-2 hour training sessions for personnel nationwide on how to handle
the public issue, supervision of the allotment processing and so forth; and
* the preparation of a stock exchange blue print and item-by-item action plan together with
donor funding requests for start-up costs.
13.   The CMSA successfully established the Dares Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) to the
point where two Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) took place during the first half of 1998. The DSE
now has a small pipeline of furtherIPOs. The listing fees from these IPOs should be able to allow
the DSE to generate some revenue to cover part of its operating expenses over the next few years.
The ICR mission asked the CMSA to draw a business plan showing financial projections over the
next five years in order to determine the viability of the DSE operations.
4



14.   Although the regulatory framework and supervisory methodology for the insurance sector
were not put in place under the project, the Government was able to pass legislation opening up
the sector to private participation and to set up the institutional framework (the Insurance
Supervisory Department in the Ministry of Finance) for regulating the sector. Nine private
insurance companies have since been set up in addition to the two existing state-owned ones; the
National Insurance Corporation (NIC) and Zanzibar Insurance Corporation (ZIC). The share of
the public sector insurance market, though still large, had reduced to 55.4 percent by October
1999.
15.   The fourth and final project development objective was improvement of the Tanzania
payments system. The first stage of this component was completed in the early stages before
resources were shifted to NBC privatization. This payments system component had envisaged a
study to be conducted in two phases: (i) collecting and analyzing data about the payment traffic in
Tanzania and assessing the related institutional, legal and financial infrastructure; and (ii)
designing improvements to the national payments system including an assessment of the
feasibility of the electronic exchange of data. Due to the shortage of resources as a result of re-
allocation of resources for the NBC restructuring mentioned above, only the first phase of the
payments system modernization was carried out and the second phase is expected to be carried out
in a follow-up project to FIDP. The first phase was completed with the production of the final
version of the Situational Analysis and Stocktaking Report in January 1998. The document is
quite comprehensive and represents a sound basis for moving forward into the next phase. It
contains a broad description of the problems and opportunities that must be addressed in the next
phase. The document was distributed to all the relevant stakeholders and was endorsed by the
Council of Commercial Bank CEOs in March 1998.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program
16.   The key factors which affected the implementation of the program were largely due to the
underestimation of the time, effort and resources required to reach consensus on the right and
politically acceptable strategy to restructure and privatize the NBC. The Government's strategy
for privatizing NBC was formulated after a detailed review, extended debate of several options
and a subsequent re-consideration of the strategy. However, the drawn out consultations were
helpful in strengthening the robustness and political commitment to the decision on how to
dispose of NBC leading to the final acceptance of the deal. The length of the consultation process,
together with the high costs of implementing the split of the bank into two units, resulted in a
doubling of the consulting costs and contributed to the accelerated rate of disbursement from
FIDP. The restructuring and privatization of NBC which had been estimated at US$3.6 million
ended up costing almost US$ 9 million, with yet some unfinished work in the process of
privatizing NMB. This was at the expense of other components of the project that remain
incomplete but are all being catered for under a follow-up second FIDP project that will become
effective in the first half of calendar 2000.
17.   Another factor that affected the implementation of the project was the poor outcome of
the public information campaign which was supposed to mobilize public support for the NBC
restructuring strategy. The original strategy had called for the spin off of a corporate branch
network and formation of a joint venture with a foreign experienced partner. Despite the public
information campaign, the strategy caused a public outcry and had to be withdrawn. This set the
5



stage for several rounds of consultation before consensus could be reached on the strategy for
NBC.
E. Implementation Record
18.   The implementation record early in the project was strong as evidenced by actions taken
prior to Credit effectiveness. A diagnostic evaluation of NBC was carried out at the beginning of
1995 following which a business plan and memorandum of understanding with the Government
were prepared and agreed with IDA. Consultants were appointed to manage the bank and a
banking advisor to the Ministry of Finance was also appointed. In addition, the Government
agreed with IDA on a letter of sector development policy in which it described the program to be
implemented. The Government also prepared and submitted to IDA outstanding audits of the
ongoing and previous projects (FSAC and IRTAC) that were implemented by the BOT.
19.   The implementation of all the components of the project, except the bank restructuring
component, had started off well and were only interrupted when resources were shifted to the
more urgent task of restructuring and privatizing NBC. Training in Bank supervision in the
handling of problem institutions and on-site examination was carried out under the project with
the assistance of Bank Supervision Advisors provided under the IMF's technical assistance
program. At the same time, the Capital Markets and Securities Authority became operational and
the first phase of the payments system modernization component was completed. The study on
the feasibility of a credit information bureau was also completed.
20.   As mentioned above, considerable time was spent developing consensus on the NBC.
Despite the retrenchment of roughly 3,000 employees, a doubling of commissions and a 50
percent reduction in deposit rates, and the recruitment of professional bankers in managerial
positions, the bank did not achieve the profitability target nor was credit management sufficiently
improved. The MOU was successful, however, in constraining NBC's activities and minimizing
the bank's losses. A secondary impact was to reduce its market share. Nevertheless, it became
increasingly difficult to maintain the political consensus for restructuring the former NBC given
the contraction in the provision of financial services. The Government therefore adopted a more
radical restructuring plan aimed at facilitating privatization while improving and expanding the
delivery of financial services to small savers. This strategy culminated in the split of NBC in
October 1997 following another round of cost reductions including the retrenchment of another
2,000 employees. The cost reductions were identified as part of a comprehensive operations
review of NBC.
21.   However, once the decision to split the bank into two was reached,NBC, which consisted
of 130 branches by now, was dissolved and three institutions were created: a holding company
and two banks: NBC (1997) and the NationalMicrofinance Bank (NMB). NBC (1997) is a full
commercial bank consisting of 35 branches with business lines targeted to larger commercial
enterprises. NMB consists of 95 branches providing nation-wide coverage with business lines
targeted to small depositors. All lending products were assigned to NBC (1997). Both banks were
offered for sale in August 1998. In January 1999, Amalgamated Bank of South Africa (ABSA)
won the bid to purchase 70 percent of NBC (1997) and negotiations on the final sale agreement
are expected to be concluded in April 2000.
6



22.   The initial attempt to privatize NMB was not successful. The Government recognized
that the privatization of NMB was premature given the need to transformNMB's basic business
line to cater for small-scale financial services and its weak financial foundation. A bond issue to
bring the bank's net worth to zero, donor financing of a substantial portion of the start-up costs,
and the recruitment of professional bankers and microfinance experts under a management
contract, were all viewed as essential elements of the privatization strategy. However, these
actions were delayed and this, together with the unusual business franchise of NMB, contributed
significantly to the lack of serious interest by potential investors. The Government has of recent
moved to address these issues. The management contractors were recruited and started work at
NMB in July 1999, the Government issued 90 percent of the requiredrecapitalization bonds in
September 1998, and the bank's final accounts have been prepared.
F. Program Sustainability
23.   FIDP's sustainability is measured by the irreversibility of the reforms it supported. Laws
were enacted setting up the Capital Markets and Securities Authority and opening up the
insurance sector for private participation. At the same time, the Government has committed itself
by signing a memorandum of understanding to sell 70 percent of NBC (1997) to ABSA. ABSA
has carried out due diligence of NBC and is scheduled to take over management in April 2000
after the signing of the final sales agreement. Government commitment in this respect remains
firm. As far as NMB is concerned, the Government has entered into a legally binding US$ 4.9
million contract with a management contractor. The contract gives the management team
responsibility for running the day to day affairs of the bank and a mandate to transform NMB into
a microfinance bank. As of end December 1998, NBC's market share in terms of total deposits of
the banking system was about 34 percent while that of NMB was about 20 percent. Finally, the
Govenunent has agreed to provide to IDA a time-bound action plan for the privatization of NMB
as one of the conditions of effectiveness of the FIDP II. These actions, combined with the fact
that the Government has already received the approval for a follow-up FIDP II operation from
IDA's Board, affirm that the program initiated under FIDP will be sustainable in the long term.
G. Bank Performance
24.   Bank performance in the supervision of the FIDP was highly satisfactory. The Bank was
flexible especially in terms of resource allocation and when it became obvious that more funds
were required for the critical component of NBC privatization, funds were re-allocated from other
components to the NBC activities. The FIDP was designed based on lessons learnt from the
previous FSAC operation. The Bank consulted extensively with the Government and all
stakeholders at preparation and implementation stages (including joint participation of the Swiss
Development Corporation) as can be evidenced from the staff inputs and resources that were
committed to the project throughout its lifetime (see Table 7 in the Annex). A total of 211 staff
weeks costing US$ 880,000 were devoted to the whole project of which 123 staff weeks were
devoted to supervision. While this may appear large compared to the norm in the Bank for
technical assistance of this size, the drawn-out nature of the NBC consultation process required a
constant presence in the field to keep the Government focused on the end product. Although there
was no formal mid-term review at which the project was restructured, the intensive supervision
combined with the flexibility of the Bank resulted in a continuous restructuring throughout the
7



life of the project which resulted in the positive outcome of resolving the important NBC
privatization.
H. Borrower Performance
25.   Borrower performance was satisfactory despite the length of time it took to reach decision
on the NBC privatization strategy. Because of the importance of the NBC to the Tanzanian
financial sector, the Borrower concentrated most of its efforts and resources under the Project on
NBC's restructuring and privatization. Even then, there was lack of agreement on which strategy
was best suited for the downsizing of the bank and it took almost two years to reach a final
decision.  Throughout the project, the NBC  was operating under a memorandium  of
understanding. The monitoring and enforcement of the memorandum by the BOT was at first very
thorough but later on in the process as the focus shifted to the privatization transaction, the
enforcement of the MOU became lax and the NBC kept violating the required compliance.
26.   Procurement under the project was coordinated by the Bank Supervision Department of
BOT with assistance from the staff of the Resident Mission. This aspect of the project was
generally properly managed, except in a few instances where the World Bank procedures were not
followed. For example, the Borrower incurred a massive cost overrun in the legal services contract
for NBC privatization without first getting the required IDA approval.
L. Assessment of Outcome
27.   Based on the assessment in Sections C and D above, the outcome of the project is rated
highly satisfactory. The most important component of the project central to financial sector
development in Tanzania was the bank restructuring and privatization component. This was
carried out successfully with the split of NBC and finding a potential buyer for NBC (1997)
together with the appointment of a management contractor to turn NMB into a sustainable
microfinance institution. Although a number of the other components of the project were left
uncompleted, this is understandable given that resources originally allocated to them were shifted
to the chore and all important bank restructuring component. Moreover, the issue of NBC
dominance in the banking sector has got settled thereby setting the process of financial sector
development in Tanzania on a sustainable path. Privatization was notmentionable during the
preparation stages of FIDP. Now the Government's policy is to privatize all the remaining state-
owned banks. This in itself is a major achievement in re-aligning the Government's perception of
its role in the financial sector.
J. Future Operations
28.   The Government approached the Bank seeking assistance for a second FIDP which would
provide support as the Government pursues its bank privatization program to conclusion. The
FIDP II program was approved by the Board in August 1999. Specifically, under FIDP II , the
focus shifted to: (i) restructuring and/or privatizing all the remaining state-owned banks including
transforning the NMB into a private microfinance bank; (ii) strengthening the supporting
financial infrastructure by, inter-alia, enhancing the capacity of the central bank to supervise
banks and by improving the efficiency of the national payments system; and (iii) increasing
savings and investment opportunities by promoting the development of contractual savings and
8



capital markets. These actions would lead to increased access by rural savers and micro
entrepreneurs to the formal financial system, reduced Government ownership of (as a proxy for
intervention in) the banking sector, and improved soundness of the banking system as measured
by the extent of non-performing assets in the banking system and enhanced quality of bank
supervision and the regulatory environment. This new focus under FIDP 11 reflects the paradigm
shift which is a result of the activities under FIDP I.
29.   Another anticipated future activity is a financial sector assessment which will undertake a
comprehensive assessment of Tanzania's financial sector. The assessment will review the current
status and performance of the sector and also identify actions that the Government needs to take in
the short, medium and long term to develop a robust financial sector.
K. Key Lessons Learned
30.   Based on the experience of this Credit, several lessons can be drawn:
(i) Boards of Directors of state-owned banks who are publicly appointed have no commercial
objectives to run the banks and tend to have political agendas, advocating for increased services
and growth without regard to the growth of profits. This is made the more possible because of the
Government's implicit guarantee of deposits in state-owned banks.
(ii) Commitment of the Borrower to and ownership of the reform program is key to successful
implementation of reforms. At the same time, the Govermment requires some champions within
its ranks who will sell the benefits of the program to both the politicians and the general populace.
These champions should preferably be local technical people or, if need be, carefully selected
external technical assistance who would have a well planned public relations program to sell to
the public the benefits expected from the project.
(iii)A lot of time and resources are required to build consensus among the key decision makers
and the population at large on the strategy to be followed in privatizing state-owned banks.
Similarly, capacity building in the in the Central Bank to supervise the financial system is also a
long term rather than short term exercise.
(iv) Management contracts for distressed state-owned banks can only work if the Government and
the Central Bank are in agreement on what the final output from the management contract should
be. This includes a willingness to enforce compliance with the business plan targets and effective
oversight of the performance of the management contractor. Such oversight may consume
considerable supervision resources. In order to arrive at decisions on the required optimal output,
the Government requires expert technical advice well versed with evaluation of bank
performance. Most bank management contractors are trained to grow business not shrink it and
end up not implementing what the technical assistance was designed for. They tend to be overly
optimistic about the quality of new lending that they can do.
9



'n



TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2771-TA)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
11



12



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial         Partial         Negligible          NA
Macro Conditions                                             x
Sector Policies                            x
Legal Objectives
Institutional Development                  x
Poverty Objectives                                           x
Gender Issues                                                                                   x
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management                    x
Private Sector Development                  x
Other
B. Project Sustainability                                  Likely          Unlikely         Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                                       Highly          Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory
Identification                                               x
Preparation assistance                                                         x
Appraisal                                                                      x
Supervision                                                  x
D. Borrower Performance                                     HS                 S                U
Preparation                                                                    x
Implementation                                                                 x
Covenant compliance,                                                           x
E. Assessment of Outcome                   HS                S                 U               HU
x
NA: Not Applicable; HS: Highly Satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; HU: Highly Unsatisfactory.
13



Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Title                             Purpose                           CY of                Status
approva
.     ..........                                           .. ...........                                  'm . fi . . .......
1. Financial Sector          *   To ensure that the macroeconomic framework
Adjustment Credit (FSAC)        wbauld support financial sector performance, to
improve competition within the financial system,
strengthen Central Bank super ision capacity,      1991                C
and restructure individual banks, including the                        Closed
transfer of bad loans to a Loan and Advances
Realization Trust (LART).
2. Financial Institutions and   I  To improve public sector accounting and
Legal Management Project        auditing; and the legal and regulatory framework   1993                Ongoing
(FILMUP)                       and the administration of justice
3. Parastatal and Public     *   Assist Government to tackle financial difficulties    1993             Ongoing
Sector Reform Project           and encourage growth of the private sector
through (i) privatization of PE's (ii) reform of the
civil service, including planned staff reductions
and (iii) improvements in the macro policy
framework, with attention to taxation.
4. Structural Adjustment     *   To induce greater efficiency in the use of fiscal
Credit (SAC)                    resources, focus the activities of the state while
enlarging the role of the private sector, and
continue the process of price and market         1997                 O
liberalization.                                                       Ongoing
*   To support the government's efforts to achieve
macro stability, growth, and poverty reduction
through a reform of public expenditure policies,
efficient provision of social services, accelerated
privatization of parastatals, a resolution of the
problems facing the National Bank of Commerce
(NBC), and measures to remove distortions in
the pricing and marketing of petroleum.
5. Rural and Micro-          To develop a sustainable rural and micro-finance        1999     Approved by the Board in
financial Services Project    system with a wide outreach to small scale rural and             August 1999. To become
urban clients throughout Tanzania.                               effective soon
6. Second Financial          *   To create a competitive financial sector that, using
Institutions Development        commercial principles, will channel domestic savings         Approved by the Board in
Project (FID Pll)               into increased private investment. This would include:      August 1999. To become
I     (i) facilitating the privatization of state owned banks;  1999  effective soon
(ii) strengthening the supporting financial
infrastructure including bank supervision by the central
bank, an improved payments system and the
establishment of a private credit infonration bureau;
and (iii) implementing a strategy for the development
of capital markets.                                        I
14



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                               Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification                                                                    February 1994
Preparation                                            March 1994               March-June 1994
Appraisal                                              June 1994                 June-Sept. 1994
Negotiations                                         October 25, 1994         December 20-21, 1994
Letter of Development Policy                                                    February 23, 1995
Board Presentation                                   November 1994               August 3, 1995
Signing                                                                  I       October 27, 1995
Effectiveness                                         August 1995               February 23, 1996
Mid-term Review                                        April 1998               Was Not Necessary
Project Completion                                 December 31, 1998            February 28, 1999
Loan Closing                                          June 30, 1999               June 30, 1999
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US S million"
FY96        FY97 |       FY98         FY99       FY2000
Appraisal Estimate                                    1.80         5.40          9.0       10.28        10.90
Actual                                                1.37         3.33        10.05        10.33       10.33
Actual as a % of Estimate                             76.1         6 1.7       111.7 1      100.5      ioo.o0
Date of Final Disbursement: June 28, 1999
Effect of the fluctuations of SDR/IJS$ exchange rate
15



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Programmed                                                   Actual
1. Completion of the Diagnostic evaluation of NBC and a tine bound Completed in March 1995
action plan for the downsizing and restructuring of NBC
2. NBC has appointed consultants to carry out the divestiture strategy  Management consultants were appointed in mid 1995
but did not carry out their mandate. The contract was
termrinated due to non-performance..
3. The Borrower has contracted the banking advisory services to Advisor appointed in December 1995
Ministry of finance
Cril2 .B  B. .;0g  -.   -  E . ..g... .   
1. The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect    *   Complied with continuously
the resources and expenditure in respect of the project
2. The Borrower shall submit to the Association not later than six months    *   Complied with continuously
after the end of each fiscal year a certified copy of the audit report of the
financial statements of the project
16



Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Development Credit Agreement
2.03        3    Closing date                     C        June 30, 1999               Credit was fully
disbursed and it closed as
planned. Funds for some
of the components were
re-allocated to the critical
component of NBC
privatization.
Uncompleted
components were
transferred to FTDP II
3.03        4    Exchange of views with IDA on    C         Continuous
progress of the Program
3.04       1,4   Preparation of audited financial  CD    Not later than six            The NBC audited
accounts (with the required            months after the              accounts were always
adjustments and loan write-offs)       end of each FY                provided late and those
for NBC and PBZ and furnishing                                       of PBZ were not
them to IDA                                                          provided until July 1999
3.05        5    Offer for sale, by October 31,   CD     October 31, 1995   February   The strategy was
1995, at least one branch                                   1999     changed and NBC was
network of NBC and identify a                                        split into two banks,
joint venture partner for the                                        NBC (1997) and NMB.
corporate subsidiary of NBC                                          NBC (1997) was offered
for sale in February
__________    1999.
3.06        5    Appoint a General Manager and    CP    October 31, 1995              BOT seconded 2 senior
Financial Controller to assist                                       officer to manage PBZ
PBZ and ensure the bank has                                          and prepare restructuring
commenced the implementation                                         plan.
of a restructuring plan
4.01 (a)    1, 2   Borrower to maintain records     C        Continuous
and accounts to reflect the
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the
Project
4.01 (b)    1, 4   Borrower to have the records     C      Not later than six
and accounts audited for each          months after the
FY and to submit to IDA a               end of each FY
certified copy of the audit report
17



.. 7. . ........
Sch. 4 (1)    2    BOT shall be responsible for      C        Continuous                 As a result of personnel
supervising the implementation                                       changes in BOT,
of the Project and monitoring its                                    responsibility for the
progress                                                             Project was moved from
the Financial Markets
Directorate to the
Directorate of Bank
Supervision
Sch. 4 (2)    2    Borrower to appoint and           C                                   The advisor's contract
maintain until completion of the                                     expired six months
project banking advisors to assist                                   before the end of the
Ministry of Finance with bank                                        project and was not
restruicturing                                                       renewed. A new advisor
was recruited to assist
with the evaluation of
NBC proposals.
Sch. 4 (3)    5    Borrower to furnish IDA with     CP    October 31, 1995               Government enforced the
NBC's business plan and cause                                        MOU with NBC.
NBC to carry out operations in                                       However, there were
accordance with the                                                  some lapses in
performance targets contained                                        enforcement during the
therein                                                              bidding and negotiation
.I_________    process.
Sch. 4 (4)    5    Borrower to ensure NBC            C       Every month
promptly furnishes BOT with
monthly reports on outstanding
loans to large borrowers (loans
TShs 100 million and above)                                                                 I
Sch. 4 (5)    5    BOT to provide IDA with the       C     March 31 of
annual work plan of the DBS            preceding year
each financial year
Sch. 4 (6)    5    BOT to furnish to IDA annual      C     September 30 of
reports on the financial status of      each year
all banks with action plans for
identified problem institutions.
Sch. 4 (7)    5    Borrower to fumnish to IDA the   CD     Dec. 31, 1995                 The Commission was
work plan for the establishment                                      established in March
of the Insurance Commission                                          1999.
Sch. 4 (8a)   5    Borrower to maintain, until       C         Continuous
completion of the Project, a
Chief executive Officer of the
CMSA
Sch. 4 (8b, c)    5    Borrower to furnish to IDA an  C      October 31, 1995
annual work plan and budget for         for 1996;
CMSA for each year                      September 31 of
each preceding
year for
subsequent years.                                   I
Sch. 4 (9)    5    Borrower to ensure that          NC      October 31, 1995             This component was
management team for the PTF                                          deferred until FIDP II
has been selected and a draft                                        becomes effective
management contract has been
furnished to IDA
18



Sch. 4. (10)    5    Borrower to carry out, through  NC    March 31, 1997    April 2,   Given the substantial
BOT, a mid-term review of the                             1998    percentage of funds
progress m carrying out the                                        disbursed by March 1997
Project and the Program                                            and the intense review of
restructuring options for
NBC, the Government
and the Bank agreed to
no mid term review.
Covenant types:                                                  Present status:
1: Accounts/Audits                                               C: covenantcompliedwith
2: Flow and utilization of project funds                         CD: complied with after delay
3: Management aspects of the project/executing agency            CP: compliedwithpartially
4: Monitoring, review and reporting                              NC: not complied with
5: Project implementation not covered by categories 1-4
19



Table 7: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs2
Stage of Project Cycle                            Weeks                             USS '000
Preparation to appraisal                                         15.5                               59.2
Appraisal                                                        31.4                               90.6
Negotiations through Board approval                              35.2                               121.7
Supervision                                                     122.9                              601.7
Completion                                                       6.0                                6.0
TOTAL                                                           211.0                              879.2
Table 8: Bank Resources; Missions
Month/Year      No. of      No. of    Staff skills        Performance rating             Types of
.              Persons    Weeks    represented                                          problems
Implementation    Development
Status        Objectives
Identification
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal                  July 1994           11         3       EC, FS, BS,
PS
Post Appraisal             September 1994      3         1.5       EC, FS, BS                                    Agreement on the
broad elements of
a strategy for the
PostNegotiation           Jan/Feb 1995         3         1.5       EC, FS, BS                                    Completion of
conditions for
Supervision I             November 1996
Supervision II            February 1997        2         1.8        EC, PYS            S               S
Supervision III           September 1997       3          2       EC, FS, AC           S               S
Supervision IV            February 1998        3          1         EC, FS             S               S
Supervision V             June 1998            2         1.8        FS, EC             S               S
Supervision VI            February 1999        2          2           EC               S               S
Completion                November 1999        2          1         FS, EC             S               S
Staff Skills: EC - Economist   ; BS - Banking Specialist; FS - Financial Sector Specialist  ; AC - Accounting Specialist;
PYS - Payments System Specialist; PS - Private Sector Specialist
2 Excludes Trust Fund Resources
20



Perfonnance Rating: S - Satisfactory; U - Unsatisfactory; 1 - Minor Problems; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major problems,
actions taken;
21



22



TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DENVELOPMEN' PROJECT
(CR. 2771-TA)
PART HI: APPENDIXES



2



TANZANIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2771-TA)
APPENDIX I:
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
3



.4



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    In 1991, the Government of Tanzania initiated its financial sector reform program with the
support of IDA credit for financial sector adjustment (FSAC). The aim of the program was to create a
financial system that operates on the basis of market-oriented principles, is efficient in mobilizing and
allocating resources, and effective in fostering long-term economic growth. The program was intended to:
i)     Support a stable, market-oriented macro-economic framework;
ii)    Strengthen the financial infrastructure, including banking and associated legislation;
iii)    Create a competitive environment and introduce private participation in the banking sector; and
iv)    Strengthening the existing banks.
2.    Due to the precarious situation of the financial institutions then, it was leamt that these objectives
could not be speedily implemented. Hence, in the short to medium term, the Government intended the
program to include:
i)    Passage of new banking laws and prudential regulations;
ii)    Restructuring of the three Government-owned commercial banks;
iii)    Legislation to promote private sector participation in the insurance industry; and
iv)    Initial steps to promote the emergence of a capital market in Tanzania through the enactment of
the Capital Markets and Securities Act.
3.    In August 1993, the Government released its Master Plan forParastatal Privatization and Reform.
The plan entailed the privatization, closure and liquidation ofparastatals and restructuring of remaining
parastatals to enhance their financial and operational performance. The technical assistance was to be
financed by an IDA credit forParastatal and Public Sector Reform (PPRP) and the policy reforms were to
be supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit, which was also to support the continuation of policy
reforms in the financial sector.
4.    The Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDP) was to build upon the achievements of
FSAC and complemented the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). Specifically, FIDP financed the
technical assistance required to assist the implementation of reforms in the financial sector.
5.    The objectives of FIDP were to support:
i)    Encouraging competition in the commercial banking sector;
ii)    Strengthening banking regulation and supervision;
iii)   Improving the payments mechanism in the country;
iv)    Implementing comprehensive parastatal reforms, including privatization of state owned
enterprises;
v)    Developing a market for Govemnment securities;
vi)    Establishing a regulatory structure for securities and insurance markets, and
vii)   Developing a corporate securities market.
5



6.    The primary objectives of the project are to develop a market-oriented financial system and to
ensure the orderly and gradual evolution of capital markets in Tanzania while supporting the privatization
process.
II.    FIDP DESIGN AND COMPONENTS TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES
7.    The scope of the project, which was to be supported by a $10.9million credit, included the
following components:
(i) The Banks restructuring Component:
This aimed at supporting a strategy for downsizing NBC and restructuring PBZ. The support was
for:
(a)  implementing the divestiture of at least one of NBC's urban branch networks and
establishing a joint venture subsidiary to focus on corporate and international finance;
(b)  a management team for the remaining NBC;
(c)  Restructuring of PBZ under a professional management team into a viable commercial bank,
including preparation of business plan, formulation of appropriate policies and operating
procedures, installation of effective internal control, the design of a market strategy and the
introduction of new financial services;
(d)  non-resident banking advisors to the Ministries of Finance (as the sole shareholders of NBC,
THB, TIB and PBZ)
(ii) Financial Infrastructure Strengthening Component which was to support:
(a)  an intensive program aimed at rapidly developing Banking Supervision in BOT;
(b)  establishment of an Insurance Commission, including drafting and implementation of
prudential regulations for licensing, regulating and supervising insurance companies; and
(c)  a technical assistance fund to finance a series of studies on improvement of the payments
system and the possible creation of a Credit Information Bureau.
(iii) The Capital Market Development Component that was to support
(a)  Strengthening of Capital Markets and securities Authority in the regulation and
development of the capital market, including the establishment of a viable capital market in
Tanzania and the preparation of such regulations as shall be necessary for the purpose;
(b)  Training of dealers and potential stockbrokers;
(c)  Carrying out a basic publicity and educational program for the general public, including
nationwide distribution of information;
(d)  Completion of the first public issue, including design distribution procedures, determination
of offer prices and allotment procedures;
(e)  Preparation of a stock exchange blueprint and action plan.
6



III.   ADEQUACY OF PROJECT DESIGN AND RESPONSIVENESS OF THE PROJECT
OBJECTIVES
8.    FIDP which aimed at addressing the above pertinent issues was a great input, not only in
transforming the financial sector into a market based scenario but also to assist in the general development
of the economy of the country. The components of FIDP as outlined above, addressed key and pre-
requisite issues to the emergence of a financial sector, which would allow efficient mobilization, and
allocation of resources, meet credit and investment needs of a broad range of customers and foster long-
term economic growth.
9.    The financial sector of Tanzania was dominatedby Government-owned banks in which there was
pervasive interference by the Government. Credit was directed on the basis of Govermment priorities
without regard to the creditworthiness of the customers, and banks were convenient agents of fiscal policy.
The lack of separation between fiscal and financial activities, combined with an unfavorable economic
environment and an inadequate regulatory framework led to significant misallocation of credit to banking
system clientele who were bankrupt and mostly in arrears and an ineffective monetary policy and unstable
macro-economic framework characterized by the unchecked growth in monetary supply and lack of
competition. Weak banking supervision further contributed to the crisis in the sector.
10.   With the enactment of Banking and Financial Institutions Act, 1991, it was necessary for the
Govemment-owned banks to be restructured and privatized to enable them comply with the banking laws
and most importantly, to let-go of the Government'shold so as to allow them operate competitively in an
economy controlled by the market forces.
11.   The incoming of private banks and general restructuring of the financial sector meant that the
supervisory body had to have both adequate and qualified staff. Given the fact that the Directorate of
Banking Supervision was still new and understaffed, it was very important that some funds be set aside to
provide training for its staff.
12.   The development of the private sector that was catalyzed by parastatal sector reforms and
financial sector reforms called for development of capital markets to provide for financing needs. As
such, the non-consideration of capital market development would have been a stumbling block towards
successful achievement of economic reforms.
13.   The objectives of FIDP were therefore commensurate to the needs and conditions of the country at
the time of its institution.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Bank restructuring
14.   NBC Divestiture. The divestiture of National Bank of Commerce took place at a slower speed
than expected. The main reason being a long but unavoidable decision making process that necessitated
several presentations to Parliament. Finally a consensus was reached to split NBC into two banks and one
Holding Company. The three entities namnely, NBC (1997) Ltd., NationalMicrofinance Bank (NMB) Ltd.
and the NBC Holding Company became operational on 1St October 1997.
7



15.   NBC (1997) Ltd. is a full-fledged commercial bank focusing on corporate and large customers,
has 35 branches situated in urban areas while NMB Ltd. (with 95 branches) is meant to provide both
commercial and microfinance services to the urban and rural areas. NMB will seek to encourage savings
and develop loan products suitable for small urban and rural businesses as well as agricultural customers.
16.   Even though the banks commenced operations in October 1997, they were undercapitalized and
had serious operational deficiencies hence the Government signed Memoranda of Understanding with the
Boards of Directors of both banks in October 1997 to monitor their performance and cultivate
responsibility to their management. The Bank of Tanzania was vested with powers to monitor compliance
with the MOUs.
17.   Various technical supports (Accounting, legal, property valuation and training) financed- under
FIDP have been given to these entities to improve their performance, better their conditions and to prepare
them for privatization.
18.   The privatization of NBC (1997) Ltd. is inits final stages. The investor, Amalgamated Bank of
South Africa (ABSA), is currently managing the bank under interim agreement while going on with due
diligence to enable finalization of the deal.
19.   NMB has not been able to attract any investors so far. However, the government has hired a
management contractor, Development Alternatives (DAI), to steer the bank for a period of two-and-half
years to improve its performance and condition and make it attractive for privatization.
20.   The whole process of restructuring and privatization of both NBC (1997) Ltd. and NMB Ltd. fell
behind schedule because of:
(i) Inability of both banks to produce financial statements that were consistent with the banks'
September 30, 1997 audited balance sheet;
(ii) The complexity of the divestiture process and preparation of relevant documents that took
both the shareholder and the consultants a longer time than originally expected.
21.   Restructuring of PBZ. The restructuring of PBZ has not been very successful. The Bank of
Tanzania seconded its two senior staff to PBZ to assist in its management. Accountants were also
contracted to assist in finalization of PBZ accounts for the period ending 31St December 1995 ready for
restructuring purposes. Preliminary stages for preparation of Business plan for PBZ were started but due
to increased costs in restructuring NBC, no funds were available for PBZ. Thus, shortage of funds,
coupled with the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar's detailed commitment to restructure and
privatize PBZ, stagnated the restructuring process of PBZ. The Government of Zanzibar is now committed
and has requested for a study of possible restructuring options to be made to enable selection of the most
feasible option that can be implemented under FIDP II.
Financial Infrastructure strengthening
22.   Strengthening Banking Supervision in the BOT. The Project aimed at strengthening the
Directorate of Banking Supervision by training its staff in the supervision of problem institutions, on-site
examination and methodology development.
8



23.   Staff attended both in-country and overseas courses sponsored under FIDP relating to financial
analysis, Credit management, money laundering, supervisory techniques, andmicrofinance. However,
since new examiners are being recruited and other staff transferred to this Directorate as the banking sector
grows, further and additional training under FIDP II will be necessary.
24.   The project provided for engagement of methodology specialist(s) who were to work together
with IMF Advisor to assist the review of regulations and guidelines; amendment of regulatory reporting
requirement; and development of a data from the required regulatory reporting, to display and compute
necessary financial data and ratios for use by examiners and analysts in their examination and surveillance
roles.
25.   The Directorate of Banking Supervision in collaboration with the Directorate of legal services
developed several Guidelines and Circulars that were compiled in a volume called "Prudential
Guidelines". These guidelines are available to banks and other financial institutions. In April 1996 the
Directorate embarked upon the review of all Guidelines and initiation of some new regulations. Several
Guidelines/ Regulations have been reviewed.
26.   With the assistance of the Department of Management Information Systems, the Directorate has
prepared a Banking Supervision Information System (BSIS), which is capable of producing early warning
indicators.
27.   The Banking Supervision in the Bank of Tanzania is much stronger now than it were in 1995
when FIDP I was sanctioned. The Directorate has been able to assist the BOT to handle complicated cases
of two banks that faced difficulties recently and, it has been very instrumental in the restructuring process
of the Government owned institutions working hand in hand with PSRC.
28.   National Payment Systems Modernization. The National Payment Systems Modernization was
initiated in August 1996. It was fornally introduced to all interested stakeholders at a sensitization
workshop in September 1996 attended by the representatives of a range of institutions, including financial
institutions (i.e. Central Bank, Commercial Banks etc), Government, Capital Markets & Securities
Authorities, infrastructure providers (e.g. Telecommunication, Power Company), Clearing House and the
newly formed stock exchange, Business and consumer representatives and Major Users (e.g. Pension
Funds, Insurance Companies, etc.).
29.   The project has been implemented by a multidisciplinary team from the Central Bank, assisted by
specialist committees on legal, operations, automation and standards which draws membership from
banks and financial institutions. A council of CEOs from key stakeholder organizations chaired by the
Governor has overall responsibility over the project.
30.   The primary objectives of the improved payment arrangement are to:
*  Fulfill BOT requirements on the control of reserves and current account balances;
*  Reduce float, speed up the circulation of funds, and increase the efficiency of fund
transmission;
*  Improve convenience and service to users;
*  Achieve a reliable, secure, and integrated payment, clearing and settlement system that
meets the needs of a changing and growing economy;
9



* Improve and strengthen the relevant internal accounting and control procedures within
banks to support migration to envisage modem environment.
*  Improve BOT management of monetary policy to supply timely and accurate information
on funds and settlement account balances;
*  Expand flexibility to suit Tanzania conditions by allowing for the integration of future
services such as ATM's, debit, credit, smart cards and other card-based transactions,
securities settlement transactions and large value time critical payment.
31.   The implementation of the project was divided into four phases:
(i) Situation stock taking - Detailed investigation and data collection phase.
(ii) Conceptual design - Consists of developing a comprehensive vision of users
requirements and conceptual description of the payment and support mechanisms
necessary for their satisfaction and a time phased implementation plan wvith order of
magnitude development and implementation costs
(iii) Technical specifications - The preparation of technical specifications to a level of detail
efficient to communicate the overall system requirements to prospective vendors or in-
house developers in a non-ambiguous way, and permit them to prepare fullycosted and
comprehensive implementation proposal.
(iv) Development and Implementation - This phase was not included in the FIDP.
32.   The implementation process was not to the speed expected, and some of the possible reasons for
this include:
(i) Delay in hiring local consultants;
(ii) Delay in obtaining internal BOT and participating commercial banks resources;
(iii) Lack of experience in the payments system and
(iv) Inadequacy of senior management attention.
33.   The second phase of implementation that was intended to deal with vision, strategy and
conceptual did not start as per scheduled time (July 1998 - June 1999) due to unavailability of fufnds. The
Terms of Reference, Letter of invitation and draft contracts for consultants who were to undertake this
phase were prepared and copies sent to World Bank for no objection. FIDP II will fund this and
subsequent phases.
34.   Creation of Credit Information Bureau. The process of creation of a credit information Bureau
was planned to be done in two phases. The first phase was to deal with extensive research, study and
discussion with the key members of the financial system as well as commercial enterprises in Tanzania
and major accounting and legal firms to determine whether the market is sufficiently developed to support
such a credit information bureau. This phase was to take three months.
35.   Phase two, which was to take 6 months was intended to capture a detailed market analysis of the
potential market for credit agency services and recommendations of the agency in terms of the breadth and
depth of the product and service mix to be offered.
10



36.   Preliminary stages of contracting consultants for phase one took considerable time, however, the
consultant was finally engaged and work started in April 1998. By June 1998 the inception report was
submitted to the Bank of Tanzania and a draft report on feasibility study was submitted in July 1998.
Comments were then sought from various organizations and sent to the consultant who completed the final
report in December 1998. In the report, it has been noted that Tanzania has a potential for Credit
Information Bureau and that this be considered as part of the ongoing reforms in the financial sector.
37.    The major drawback faced in the course of implementation was inadequacy of funds. The budget
made for feasibility study on credit information bureau was insufficient to meet actual costs. Some of the
costs were met by BOT on behalf of FIDP and are to be reimbursed under FIDP II.
38.   Establishment of Insurance Commission. The Government has established a supervisory
authority (the Insurance Supervisory Department) for the insurance industry without significant support of
FIDP I.
39.   Under FIDP II however, the department will develop a supervisory methodology and policy
framework, which will include the drafting of regulatory guidelines and the supporting accounting
principles and standards to be adopted by the industry to meet the legislative requirements.
Capital Markets Development
40.   Public education programs. The authority prepared information leaflets and published these
in main print media. Popular and widely read newspapers were used to reproduce public information
materials contained in the information leaflets. CMSA also aired televised programs to inform the public
on capital market concepts and institutions. Seminars for top executives in the Government and private
sector, journalists, members of parliament, middle cadre managers, lawyers and members of the Chamber
of Commerce Industry and Agriculture were held.
41.   Training and Licensing of Market Professionals. The first training programme for potential
market participants was held in 1996 by GMA Capital Markets Limited in collaboration with CMSA.
Licensed dealing members also attended an internship at New York Stock Exchange (NSSE) in 1997.
After the training and fulfillment of other licensing requirements CMSA licensed five companies as
licensed dealing members, five individuals as Dealers Representatives and eleven companies as
Investment advisors.
42.   Training and Professional Development of the Board and Staff of CMSA. Board of Directors
of the CMSA visited Mauritius Securities Industry Institutions in 1995 and learned about its securities
business, matters on policy, tax incentives, trading system and market structures. Four members of
management attended International Capital Markets Institute organized by the US securities and Exchange
Commission, on capital markets development and followed by Internships with stock exchange,
Mercantile Exchange, Law firms and Accounting firms, in New York, Chicago and Ghana. In addition,
two members attended an international capital market development seminar organized by Conceptor
International in collaboration with SIDA and Stockholm Stock Exchange. Another two members also
attended the securities training course organized and conducted by GMA Capital Markets Limited and
passed the course examination.
11



43.   Research Programme. Ernest and Young undertook the fiscal study and CMSA submitted to the
Government recommendations on fiscal incentives for Capital Markets development. Coopers and
Lybrand concluded the legal study and submitted their recommendations.
44.   Studies on clearing and settlement systems and share ownership transfer were done. Modalities
for effecting public issues were worked out. Studies on foreign ownership of shares in domestic
companies, foreign investments by Tanzanians and on business combinations (mergers and acquisitions)
have also been carried out.
45.   Development of security products. The CMSA has successfully established the Dar es Salaam
Stock Exchange (DSE) to the point where two Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) took place during the first
half of 1998. DSE now has a small pipeline of further IPOs which, based on listing fees, will allow it to
become financially viable within the next two years.
46.   The CMSA has not completed the study to attract foreign institutions into the domestic market.
Furthermore, under the Public education programme some target groups have not been reached. The
investment clubs have not been established and resource library for professional development of market
participants is not in place. Finally the research studies on accounting and disclosure standards and in
business combinations have not commenced.
V.  OVERALL PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER AND THE BANK
Government Ownership
47.   The government of Tanzania participated fully in the implementation of the project. The Bank of
Tanzania managed the project through its Banking Supervision Directorate. The Government of
Tanzania' s ownership of the project can be clearly revealed in the following areas:
(a) It has been participating almost in all stages of the project from initiation up to implementation
stage.
(b) A Transitional Management Committee which was entrusted with the responsibility of supervising
restructuring and privatization process of NBC comprised of members from the Government and Private
sector appointed by the Government.
(c) The Government also participated in the task of selecting various consultants who performed
different assignments for completion of the project. All contracts were prepared and signed by the
Govermment.
(d) Also whenever problems arose during the course of implementation, they were solved by the
Government through its Transitional Management Committee, Bank of Tanzania management and other
beneficiaries of the project.
48.   However, one area in the implementation of the project raised concern on the Government
ownership of the project. All utilization of loan proceeds were reviewed and approved by the bank except
for small claims less than US $ 50,000. The practice necessitated requesting for no objection from the
bank even for small genuine claims. Therefore despite the fact that the Government ownership of the
project was evidenced in certain areas as explained, the Government did not have any significant control
over the loan proceeds. It is therefore expected that in future more control of the fumd will be given to the
12



borrower e.g. by enhancing levels of advance payment to cover longer project periods. This will also
minimize number of withdrawal applications submitted to the bank and hence make Government and
Bank of Tanzania's responsibility of supervision of the project more efficient and effective.
World Bank's Responsibility
49.   The main responsibilities of the Bank were to supervise the project and review its progress
regularly to ensure that the funds are spent as agreed. On its supervisory role the Bank was expected to do
the following:
(i) Review and approve applications for withdrawal of loan proceeds,
(ii) Respond to any problems or queries on disbursement issues referred to the bank;
(iii) Conduct supervision missions to ascertain progress of the project.
50.   The Bank responded to problems as they arose during implementation willingly and promptly.
The Bank was also considered to be adaptive and flexible as all problems that arose were dealt with
accordingly. Some of the problems included reallocation of funds to different tasks and amendments of
different contracts. These problems arose from NBC Project cost overruns due to additional work
necessary for restructuring and privatization of process of NBC and NMB start up costs.
Institutional arrangements
51.   The FIDP was to be financed by a $ 10.9 million credit from IDA. The Government of Tanzania
was a borrower to that effect. The Bank of Tanzania was given the responsibility of being the
Government's implementing agent; managing the project through Bank of Tanzania's Banking
Supervision Directorate. The project was for supporting three components; banks restructuring
component, financial infrastructure strengthening and capital market development.
Quality/Quantity of supervision
52.   The quality and quantity of supervision by Bank management is considered satisfactory. The staff
closely followed up FIDP activities and whenever help was needed they were ready to assist promptly.
The quality/quantity of supervision can also be looked on the number and frequency of supervision
missions to Tanzania. Several missions were made consisting of the Task manager and aide memoire
reports were issued which helped a lot in the project management and implementation.
VI.   SUMMARY
Findings
53.   In the Implementation of this project, the following findings were identified:
*   A lot of time was used in deciding which strategy of NBC restructuring was to be adopted.
*   Slow progress in privatization of NBC led to overruns of project costs. The project fund was
fully committed and still there were several activities, which could not be accomplished.
*   During the period of the project the BOT Banking Supervision capacity has improved
significantly. Both on-site and off-site supervision approaches are now being used by the
13



Central bank much more effectively and efficiently. However, because of rapidly expanding
financial system and incoming of new products, training on banking supervision needs to be a
continuous process. Furthermore, because of the competition and need of competent staff, the
BOT needs to highly motivate the examiners to retain them.
*   During the period of the project the number of Private banks and financial institutions
licensed to carry on banking business in the country substantially increased. The banking
system has changed from the one dominated by Government owned banks to a more
competitive banking system whereby private banks are taking significant share of banking
business.
+   Though most of the components financed under FIDP I have made substantial progress in
implementation most are yet to be fully completed and thus, need reliable financial support
for the targeted objectives to be achieved.
*   Financing under IDA has proved to be supportive of the development of the financial system
in Tanzania.
Lessons Learned
* The funds given under FIDP I were fixed at Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 7,500,000.00 whose
exchange rate to the Dollar fluctuates. Since most payments are made in USD, it is advisable to fix the
amount of the loan in USD.
* Delaying execution of the project as per activity plan can lead to cost overruns and non-achievement
of the set targets.
 Lack of local qualified consultants is disadvantageous to the borrowing country, as the funds
borrowed do not remain in the country but are taken outside to the foreign consultants' nations.
* Liberalization of financial sector stimulates development as it gives several alternatives of services to
the customers. attracts foreign investors, the public is exposed to new techniques and ideas that are
used in other parts of the world, creates employment, and opens more business opportunities.
Sustainability and future operations
54.   Phase I of Financial Development Project has been externally financed. However, the stage so far
reached by other beneficiaries indicates that in the future, some of the beneficiaries will be able to sustain
themselves. The Capital Markets and Securities Authority has started meeting part of its operational costs
itself. NBC (1997) Ltd. that is in final stage of privatization will not be Government's problem any more.
The Credit Information Bureau, if started and established, will finance itself.
55.   It is worth noting that restructuring of the financial sector will, for some time, depend on the
donor support before it can fully sustain itself. Now that the beneficiaries have increased, even greater
financial support will be required under FIDP II.
56.   In the next phase, FIDP II will concentrate on (i) restructuring and/or privatization of state owned
banks including transforming the NMB into a private microfinance bank; (ii) strengthening and
supporting financial infrastructure by, among others, enhancing the capacity of the central bank to
supervise banks and by improving the efficiency of the national payments system; and (iii) increasing
14



savings and investment opportunities by promoting the development of contractual savings and capital
markets.
15



i
I
i "',



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2771-TA)
MAP



.... ..



13                                                                                             30                            38,,
(    y  X           -          to7~~~LaVic:torija       < > 
,/ A, 03 t! I~~~koba o v 
(  RWANDA                                                                                                           KENYA
/~\                    0 fVL.... C  0   .....................            Natron          >                    AFRICA
BURUNDI                                        .     .h
hinanesgo B         Eot           Mny
Tan g ; 0 ,Yrke;  1/onyss iR Manyar
0
Tabo4ra
other isfororotion shown ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ter
on  th ngiso d  not
d...i,ot ... ny. .                                                                                            X                           s
imhly  oo . t  p               "'-S-
the~     WrdBoo   -troop.
soy .dgennnt on the legal
stte   f soy tnrritoy/
or so  'ndorerno                     I            I                                        R
orocetc of-eh              TANZANL\IA 1
hb-d.ri-                                                                                                                                                          nd
-70-
MAIN ROADS                  (3REGION CAPITALS
-~RAILROADS                     * NATIONAL CAPITAL
"'RIVERS                        .,  REGION BOUNDARIESKiSne.
-INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                                                                                         #e
*00 1
- ~~~~-~~~' e~KLOMETERS                       h          .         '         '          /         ,        .                   '        >        $                '      ,       10/".--j................ , ': ':'
The Worl                                                                                                                         d        30.
r yldmnto h e'i                           



