Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1672 
Operation Name 
PDPL 1 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Multi-sector 
Project ID 
P090303 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF FYR MACEDONIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF FYR MACEDONIA 
Date PID Prepared 
June 9, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 16, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
October 27, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background:
 
FYR Macedonia’s economy has undergone a profound 
transformation since the country gained independence.  Output declined by 20 percent in the early years.  
This was countered by a successful stabilization program begun in 1994.  Growth resumed in 1996 and 
reached 4.5 percent of GDP by 1999 and 2000.  The recovery was interrupted by the civil conflict in 
2001.  While the conflict was quickly resolved through an internationally mediated peace process, and 
while direct conflict damage was limited, output contracted by 4.5 percent, and fiscal and external 
deficits widened as security expenditures surged and exports plummeted.  Growth resumed in 2002 and 
accelerated to about 3 percent in 2003 and 2004. 
 
2. 
Still, economic growth has lagged behind most transition countries in these years.  A number of 
factors discourage growth and job creation in FYR Macedonia.  While macroeconomic stability has 
been maintained, tight macroeconomic policies have not been sufficiently supported by key structural 
reforms.  The results have been depressed growth.  Critical rigidities include the following.  An 
inefficient and opaque judicial system obstructs creditor, contract and property rights and hampers the 
effectiveness of key government agencies and supervisory bodies from enforcing administrative 
sanctions such as fines, penalties and actions to revoke licenses.  Inflexible product and labor markets, a 
burdensome regulatory environment, and poor corporate and financial sector governance impede job and 
new business creation.  A poorly functioning bankruptcy regime hinders firm exit and the secondary 
transformation of ownership.  These flaws in the investment climate are compounded by weak public 
sector governance which further undermines investor sentiment 
 
3. 
Operation Objectives
:
The proposed Programmatic Development Policy Loan (PDPL) would 
aim to support measures to enhance prospects for economic growth and job creation in FYR Macedonia 
through improving: (i) the investment climate, and (ii) governance and efficiency of the public sector.  
The proposed PDPL will also support the Macedonian Government’s efforts to carry out intensive 
structural and institutional reforms required for EU accession. 
 
4. 
The program is divided into two parts.  The first would focus on reforms to improve the 
investment climate.  The second would focus on strengthening the governance and efficiency of the 
public sector. 
 
o
Pllar 1: Improving the investment climate 
a. • 
Judicial 
reform 
b.  • 
Labor market reform 
c. 
• 
Strengthening financial sector regulation and supervision 
Page  2
d. 
•
Improving the business environment 
 
o
Pillar 2: Strengthening public sector governance  
a. 
• 
Public administration reform 
b. • 
Health sector reform 
c. • 
Decentralization 
 
5. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement
:
The Country Assistance identifies three main objectives for 
Bank intervention: (i) to promote the efficient management of public resources and tackle corruption; 
(ii) to promote reconciliation, build human capital and protect the most vulnerable; (iii) to promote job 
creation through private-sector-driven growth.  The proposed PDPL would focus primarily on the first 
and third of these objectives.  Technical assistance to implement the proposed reforms would be 
financed through the ongoing Dutch Trust Fund as well as the complementary Health Sector Reform 
Project and the Social Protection Implementation Project.  The proposed Judicial Reform Project and the 
proposed Business Environment and Regulatory would also support the implementation of PDPL-
supported reforms and have been designed in close collaboration with the design of the proposed PDPL. 
 
6. 
Financing
:
$300
million 
 
7. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
:
The Government has taken a number of 
steps to put in place the appropriate institutional arrangements an structures to ensure the successful 
implementation of the program.  The Economic Reform Coordinating Body chaired by the Prime 
Minister has been reinvigorated under the reconfigured Government.  This Coordinating Body has 
improved monitoring of reform implementation and ensured inter-ministerial coordination.  A number 
of other bodies and inter-agency working groups focus on specific components of the program.  Also the 
adequate staffing of key bodies in the Government are part and parcel of the reform program. 
 
8. 
Benefits and Risks
:
The PDPL will help the Government implement a medium-term reform 
program aimed at promoting growth and job creation through improvements in the investment climate.  
The program also aims at improving the governance and efficiency of the public sector.  The reform 
program would be consistent with the Government’s aspiration for eventual EU membership. 
 
9. 
Implementation risks are likely to be fairly high.  The institutional changes that the PDPL seeks 
to bring about are a medium-term endeavor.  The current capacity of some public sector institutions to 
implement an ambitious reform agenda, while much improved over the past few years, remains 
relatively weak.  The Economic Reform Coordinating Body discussed above mitigates the risks of lack 
of policy coordination among different ministries..  However, many Ministries and other public sector 
institutions lack skilled staff in key positions.  The risk will be mitigated through the continued use of 
ample donor-financed technical assistance as well as support from ongoing and proposed Bank projects 
in health, social protection, judiciary, and business environment.  
 
10. 
There are also domestic and external political risks.  While the threat of renewed ethnic violence 
is modest, the continued uncertainty over the status of neighboring Kosovo poses a risk of potential 
ethnic tensions in FYR Macedonia.  Also, the recently reconfigured Government has now entered the 
second half of its four year mandate.  The ambitious reform agenda that the PDPL proposes to support 
could create social and political stress which might test the Government’s commitment to reform as the 
elections in September 2006 approach.  Also the Government is committed to continue to implement the 
Ohrid Peace Agreement.  While the majority of the population has recently demonstrated its support to 
the Ohrid agreement (by rejecting a referendum opposing the implementation of the enactment on the 
law on territorial reorganization), implementation of the peace agreement remains a political challenge.  
Page  3
The domestic political risks are mitigated by the broad consensus across the political and ethnic 
spectrum for integration with European structures.  The Government has applied for candidate status to 
the European Union and expects an opinion of the European Commission in late-2005.  The continued 
implementation of both economic reforms and of the Ohrid agreement are widely recognized as essential 
steps on the path to EU membership. 
 
11. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
:
Some of the policy measures that 
would be supported by the PDPL could potentially have distributional impacts.  Labor market reform, in 
conjunction with other improvements in the investment climate, should help alleviate poverty in the 
medium-term as employment in the formal sector improves.  As contract based labor participation 
increases and informal jobs are formalized, social protection coverage should also increase.  On the 
other hand, insiders would have less job security and would receive lower redundancy payments.  
Decentralization poses risks for the equitable delivery of social services if not well designed.  The 
design of the second phase of decentralization must also ensure equal access to quality education, an 
adequate supply of qualified teachers and non-teaching staff for ethnic minorities, and appropriate 
language of instruction. 
 
12. 
Our knowledge of poverty in FYR Macedonia is now being updated.  The last Poverty 
Assessment in FYR Macedonia was carried out in 1999.  However, a draft Poverty Assessment for 
2002-2003 was distributed earlier this week for a review in mid-June.  This Poverty Assessment is being 
undertaken in a programmatic approach which will allow for a close monitoring of the impact of PDPL 
supported reforms on poverty.  The current draft seeks to strengthen poverty monitoring capacity in 
FYR Macedonia and provide analytical input to the development of the next CAS.  The draft finds that 
the modest rate of economic growth in this period did not lead to a decline in poverty or even an 
improvement in general living standards for the bottom 80 percent of the population.  The strongest 
determinants of poverty in FYR Macedonia are household size and number of employed persons in 
household.  Low education of head of household and living in secondary urban areas are other important 
determinants of poverty. 
 
13. 
The proposed PDPL will not support specific measures which are likely to have an effect on the 
environment and no environmental impact assessment will be required for this operation. 
 
Contact point 
Contact: Bruce J. Courtney 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: 202 458 5242 
Fax: 202 522 1500 
 
14. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
