                                               Documentof
                                            The WorldBank


                                     FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo. 33494-MK




          INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                       PROGRAM DOCUMENT
       FOR A PROPOSEDFIRSTPROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                            INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO24.4MILLION
                                  (US$30 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO

                     THE FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA



                                           September 28,2005




PovertyReductionand Economic ManagementUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                           GOVERNMENT     FISCALYEAR
                           (JANUARY1-DECEMBER        31)

                             CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective as of (June 8,2005))

                          Currency Unit
                             US$l.oo              50.03 Denar
                             Euro1.OO             61.41 Denar

                             WEIGHTSANDMEASURES
                                   Metric System

                      ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy         MOE           MinistryofEducation
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability    MOF           Ministryof Finance
        Assessment
CSA     Agency for Civil Servants           NBRM          National Bank of Macedonia
CSL     Civil Service Law                   PSAL          Programmatic Adjustment Loans
ECA     Europe and Central Asia             MOH           Ministry ofHealth
EU      European Union                      PSMAC         Public Sector Management
                                                          Adjustment Credit
FDI     ForeignDirect Investment            PSMAL         Public Sector Management
                                                          AdjustmentLoan
FESAL2  Second Financial and Enterprise     PDPL          Programmatic DevelopmentPolicy
        Sector Adjustment Loan                            Loan
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment         ROSC          Report on the Observance of
        Program                                           Standardsand Codes
FYR     Former Yugoslav Republic of         SA0           State Audit Office
        Macedonia
GDP     Gross Domestic Product              SBA           Stand-By Arrangement
H C I   Health Care Institution             SDP           Supervisory DevelopmentPlan
HIL     Health Insurance Law                SFRY          Socialist Federal Republicof
                                                          Yugoslavia
HIF     Health Insurance Fund               SME           Small andMedium-Sized
                                                          Enterprises
HIPC    Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries      USAID         US Agency for International
                                                          Development
IBRD    InternationalBank for               VAT           Value Added Tax
        ReconstructionandDevelopment
IFC     Intemational Finance Corporation
ILO     InternationalLabor Organization
IMF     International Monetary Fund


                          Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director:  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                          Sector Director Cheryl Gray
                        Sector Manager: Bemard Funck
                      Task Team Leader: Bruce Courtnev

                                                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
               THE FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
               FIRSTPROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                                          TABLE OFCONTENTS
     I. INTRODUCTION        ...........................................................................................................................                1

     11.    COUNTRYCONTEXT          ..................................................................................................................                 1
               RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINFYRMACEDONIA......                                                                        ...........................       1
               MACROECONOMICOUTLOOKANDDEBTSUSTAINABILITY                                                                       ................................        3

     111.    THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM                         .............................................................................................               4

     IV.     BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENTSTRATEGY                                                     .....................................................           5
               LINKTOCAS.    .........................................................................................................................
               COLLABORATIONWITHTHEIMFANDOTHERDONORS                                                                   .......................................         56
               ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS                           ......................................................................................               7
     V.     THE PROPOSEDPDPLREFORMPROGRAM                                         .......................................................................              7

     VI.     OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                          ........................................................................................                22
               POVERTYAND SOCIALIMPACTS
               FIDUCIARYASPECTS              ...................................................................................................
                                                                      .................................................................................               22
                                                                                                                                                                .....23
               DISBURSEMENTANDAUDITING                              ...................................................................................               25
               ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS                         ..........................................................................................                26
               LESSONSLEARNEDFROMPRIOROPERATIONS                                                    ......................................................            26
               MONITORINGANDEVALUATION                         .......................................................................................
                                                                      ...........................................................................               ......26
               RISKSANDR I S KMITIGATION                                                                                                                              27




     TABLES

     Table 1:     FYRMacedoniaKeyEconomic Indicators
     Table 2:     Summary of the ProposedPDPL Program

     ANNEXES

     Annex 1:     Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
     Annex 2:     PDPL Policy Matrix
     Annex 3:     FYRMacedonia-At aGlance
     Annex 4:     Social Indicators
     Annex 5:     Key Economic Indicators
     Annex 6:     Key Exposure Indicators
     Annex 7 :    Operations Portfolio (IBRDand grants)
     Annex 8 :    Statement of IFC's Committed and Outstanding Portfolio
     Annex 9 :    Selected Indicators of BankPortfolio Performance and Management
     Annex 10 :   IFC andMIGA Program
     Annex 11:    Summary o fNon-Lending Services
     Annex 12:    FundPressRelease
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                                                                                                                          -

                      LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY


+            THE FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLICOF MACEDONIA
             FIRSTPROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENTPOLICYLOAN
I                  Former Yugoslav Republic o f Macedonia
 Borrower
 Amount            24.4 million (US$30 million equivalent)

                   Payable in 17years, including 5 years o f grace and level principal
                   repayment, at 6-month LIBOR for Euro plus variable spread for
                   Variable-Rate Single Currency Loans

r                  1.OO% on the principal amount, capitalized less any waiver

                   0.75% on undisbursed loanbalances, beginning 60 days after signing,
                   less any waiver
I                  Single tranche
 Tranching
 Description       The loan would be the first in a series o f three proposed Programmatic
                   Development Policy Loans (PDPLs)             designed to support the
                   Government's economic reform program over a three to four year
                   period. The program aims to promote economic growth and job
                   creation through reforms to improve the investment climate and
                   reforms to strengthen the governance and efficiency o f the public
                   sector.

                   Pillar 1:Improvingthe investment climate
                       0    Judicial reform
                            Labor market reform
                       0    Strengthening financial sector regulation and supervision
                       0    Improvingthe business environment

                   Pillar 2: Strengtheningpublic sector governance
                       0    Public administrationreform
                            Health sector reform
                       0    Decentralization

                   The PDPL will help the Government implement a medium-term reform
                   program aimed at promoting growth andjob creationthrough
                   improvements inthe investment climate. The program also aims at
                   improvingthe governance and efficiency o fthe public sector. The
                   reformprogram would be consistent with the Government's aspiration
                   for eventual EUmembership

                   Capacity weakness could impede full implementation o f some proposed
                   reforms. The current capacity o f some public sector institutions to
                                           ..
                                           ..
                                          11

                            implement an ambitious reform agenda remainsrelatively weak.
                            However, the riski s mitigatedthrough the continued use o f donor
                            financed technical assistance and fiom ongoing and proposed Bank
                            investment projects inhealth, social protection, judiciary, andbusiness
                            environment.

                            There are also some political risks. While the threat o frenewed ethnic
                            violence i s modest, the continued uncertainty over the status o f
                           neighboringKosovo i s pending. Also, the ambitious reform agenda that
                            the PDPL proposes to support could test the Government's commitment
                            to reform as the elections inAutumn 2006 approach. The domestic
                           political risks are mitigatedby the broad consensus across the political
                            and ethnic spectrum for integration with European structures. The
                            continued implementationo f both economic reforms and o f the Ohrid
                            agreement are widely recognized as essential steps on the pathto EU
                           membership.

                           FYRMacedonia also faces macroeconomic risks. While FYR
                           Macedonia has an impressive track recordo f macroeconomic stability
                           and prudent macroeconomic policies which have now been bolstered by
                            a 3 year IMF Stand-By Arrangement, the projectedreduction in
                           external current account imbalances could prove difficult to achieve if
                           exports growth i s not sustained. The riskwould be mitigatedto the
                           extent that PDPL supportedreforms would stimulate growth in
                           productivity over time and/or generate an increase insavings. In
                           addition, to the extent that the improvedinvestment climate attracts
                           higher flows o f foreign direct investment, a higher current account
                           deficit could be financed without incurring additional external debt.

I Proiect IDNumber
I Map                      PE-PO90303
                           IBRDNo.33438


  The FirstProgrammatic Development Policy Loanwas preparedby a Bank team consisting of
  Bruce Courtney (Task Team Leader), Sarbani Chakraborty, Rajna Cemerska, Arvo Kuddo,
  (ECSHD); David Bemstein, Borko Handziski, Evgenij Najdov, Gary Reid (ECSPE); Gerhard
  Botha, Silvia Minotti, Jasminka Vamalieva, Robert Gourley (ECSPF); and Andy Macdonald
  (consultant).

  The peer Reviewerswere: SimeonDjankov (CICMA), Randi Susan Ryterman (PRMPS), and
  Loraine Hawkins (EASHD).




                                                   ...
                                                   111


                                  IBRDPROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA
              PROPOSEDFIRST PROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                    TO THE FORMERYUGOSLAVREPUBLICOFMACEDONIA



                                           I.INTRODUCTION

1.       This Program Document presents the first in a series o f three proposed Programmatic
Development Policy Loans (PDPLs) to the Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) o f Macedonia to support
FYRMacedonia's structural reformprogram. The current loan is inthe amount o f24.4 million (US$30
million equivalent) and i s expected to be followed by two further PDPLs which would be the centerpieces
o f the next CAS covering FY07- 09. The PDPLs are expected to be complemented by a number of
investment loans inselected areas and analytical and advisory services.

2.       The objective o f the proposed PDPLs would be to promote economic growth and job creation in
FYRMacedonia through improving: (i) investment climate; and (ii)
                                             the                                 governance and efficiency o f the
public sector. The proposed PDPLs will be designed to ensure consistency with the Government's
aspiration o f eventual EUaccession.

3.       The proposed PDPLs would follow up on the reforms initiated under the recent Public Sector
Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL) and the Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Loan (FESAL 2) as well as the reforms identified in the recent Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP).

4.       The proposed reform program has been developed jointly with the Government, and it has been
coordinated closely with other development partners, in particular with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF)to ensure consistency with the Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) approved onAugust 31,2005.

                                         11. COUNTRYCONTEXT


               RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINFYRMACEDONIA

5.        FYRMacedoniawas among the least developedrepublics o f SFRY. Bythe time ofindependence
in 1991, FYR Macedonia's economy had been contracting for more than six years. This contraction
accelerated during the first years o f independence. Between 1991 and 1994, GDP declined by about 20
percent. The recession was accompanied by hyper-inflation and budget deficits that reached 13 percent o f
GDP. The Government launched an impressive stabilization program in 1994, centered on a sharp fiscal
adjustment and de facto pegged exchange rate, which succeeded in bringing inflation down to single
digits by 1996 and reducing the budget deficit to moderate levels. The decline in economic activity
leveledout in 1994 and modest economic growth resumed in 1996.

6.       During the period o f 1996-2000, the Government maintained macroeconomic stability and
undertook a number o f modest structural reforms. Inflation averaged about 2.5 percent per annum during
this period and the budget was balanced. However, the current account deficit remainedhighat about 7.5
percent o f GDP until the Kosovo crisis in 1999.' Market pressures forced a 15.5 percent devaluation o f

'DuringtheKosovo     crisis both imports and exports fell abruptly. However, the swift resolution of the crisis, return
o f refugees and reconstruction inKosovo ledto a late year boominMacedonian exports which carried over into

  the denar in mid-1997, but otherwise the de facto peg was maintained. A majority o f socially-owned
  enterprises were privatized inthis period, albeit largely into the hands o f insiders. Thus, post-privatization
 restructuring was limited and corporate govemance remained a concem. Financial sector reforms were
  also initiated especially in the latter part o f this period following the collapse o f a significant pyramid
  scheme in 1997. The largest bank in FYR Macedonia was recapitalized and privatized to a strategic
  foreign investor in 2000. Also, important improvements were made in the regulatory and supervisory
  framework o f the banking sector in this period. Despite these efforts, the enterprise sector's access to
  credit remained limited as the volume of loans remained low while lending rates and spreads remained
  high. Trade reform was undertaken as tariffs were reduced and import licenses abolished and the first
  hesitant steps towards labor market reformwere begun.

  7.       Despite the modest reform effort, economic growth gradually picked up, with each year in this
 periodregistering a higher growth rate thanthe previous year. In 1999 and 2000 real GDP growth reached
  4.5 percent. However, growth remained narrowly based on a few key industries (steel and textiles) and
  the investment to GDP ratio remained modest by region standards (2 1percent inFYR Macedonia versus
  28 percent in fast growing Central European countries) while the unemployment rate remained high at
  over 30 percent through-out this period.2

  8.       The civil conflict in 2001 disrupted this positive economic momentum. While direct conflict
  damage was limited, output contracted by 4.5 percent. Investment activity markedly dropped and defense-
  related expenditures pushed the budget and current account deficits to 7 percent o f GDP. InAugust 2001,
  an intemationally mediated cease fire, the Ohrid Agreement, ledto an end o f hostilities. The effects of the
  conflict were still clearly felt in2002 as GDP, investment and export growth remained sluggishwhile the
. budget and current account deficits remainedhigh.

  9.       The new Government that took office in November 2002 was confronted by a deteriorating
  current account deficit following a surge in imports concurrent with sluggishexport growth. In 2002, the
  current account deficit reached 9.4 percent o f GDP and international reserves fell to 3.9 months o f
  imports. In April 2003, a new IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) was approved. The program focused on
  fiscal adjustment to reverse transient expenditures associated with the conflict in 2001 and the pre-
  election spending in 2002. The budget deficit was abruptly cut from 5.6 percent o f GDP in 2002 to 0.1
  percent o f GDP in 2003. Since this deficit was much smaller than agreed under the IMF program, the
  program called for a slight relaxation o f fiscal policy in 2004 relative to the 2003 outcome. However, in
  2004 once again the fiscal policy was tightened further than programmed, as the budget moved to a
  surplusof0.7 percent o f GDP.

  10.      While the tight fiscal policy helpedreduce the current account deficit to about 3.2 percent o f GDP
  in2003 a number o f one-off factors contributed to a relapse in 2004 to about 7.7 percent of GDP. Also
  low capital inflows led to a reduction in the import coverage o f international reserves which fell to 3.2
  months by end-2004. Given the exchange rate anchor the falling international reserve cover forced the
  National Bank o f Macedonia (NBRM) to tighten monetary policy even as growth slowed in 2004 and
  even as the official consumer price index declined, registering an average deflation o f 0.4 in2004 and 2.0
  percent at end-December.

  11.      Clearly, macroeconomic policies over the past decade have built up an impressive track record o f
  macroeconomic stability. Inflation has been held to single digits for a decade. Unlike many countries in



                                                                                                      ~~




  2000.Also official transfers to Macedonia increased substantially inthe wake o fthe Kosovo crisis. The current
  account deficit averaged 1.5 percent o f GDP during 1999 and 2000.
    The official data onunemployment almost certainly overstate the actual unemployment rate bya significant
  degree. See the 2003 CEM.


                                                          2

the region, external and public debt ratios have remained modest. Over the past decade, gross external
debt and gross public debt have slowly fallen to about 40 percent of GDP.

12.      However, economic growth and formal sector job creation have been disappointing. While real
GDP rose to about 3 percent in 2003 and 2004, such growth rates place FYR Macedonia among the
slowest growing economies in ECA in this period. Also, the recovery remains narrowly based on a few
key sectors and the unemployment rate remains extremely high. While official data probably overstate
true unemployment, at over 30 percent, FYR Macedonia's official unemployment rate i s one o f the
highest among transition countries. High and persistent unemployment reflects low new job creation in
the formal sector. Inpart this i s due to an overly restrictive labor market and highpayroll taxes. Inpart it
i s due to the poor corporate governance which emerged following privatization. An overly burdensome
business regulatory environment also hampers new business startups andjob creation. Collectively, these
forces contribute not only to FYR Macedonia's highunemployment rate but also encourage informality.
Some estimates suggest that the informal economy inFYRMacedonia i s well over 40 percent of GDP.

13.      Conversely, at about 20 percent o f GDP the investment rate in FYR Macedonia has lagged
significantly behind faster growing economies in the region. The flow o f FDI into FYR Macedonia has
also been disappointing over the past decade. Apart from the spike in FDI in 2000 and 2001 when the
largest bank and the telecom company were privatized, FDIhas averaged 1.5 percent o f GDP, one o f the
lowest rates among transition countries. Business climate surveys indicate that the most serious obstacles
to private sector development include: an inefficient and opaque judicial system, poor access to credit,
heavy regulation (especially inlabor markets), political risks, corruption, and policy unpredictability.


MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOKAND DEBTSUSTAINABILITY

14.      The Government has launched a comprehensive structural reform program which is proposed to
be supported by a series of PDPLs (see below). Assuming continuing improvements in regional and
domestic stability and strong policy performance, the medium-term outlook i s positive and would be
considered sustainable for the purposes o f the PDPL program. GDP growth i s expected to accelerate
modestly to 3.7 percent in 2005 as the re-opening of large steel mills under new ownership has
contributed to a broad increase in industrial production. The full implementation o f key reforms should
reduce the structural bottlenecks that still affect investment. These reforms are likely to lead to a gradual
increase in the investment to GDP ratio as the investment climate improves by 2008. GDP growth i s
projected to continue to slowly increase to 4.5 percent during this period. Inflation turned marginally
positive early in 2005 and i s projected to increase to over one percent in 2005 and to about 2 percent by
2007 and 2008.

15.      On August 31, 2005 a new three year SBA was approved by the IMF Board. The program
envisages budget deficits of 0.8 percent o f GDP in 2005 and 0.6 percent of GDP in 2006-2008. Such a
fiscal stance would continue the gradual reduction in the public debt to GDP ratio o f recent years from
about 40 percent o f GDP to below 35 percent by the end o f the program. Debt sustainability analysis
conducted by the JMF for the new SBA suggests that public debt sustainability is robust under all shocks
except an implausibly large GDP shock.

16.      The current account deficit in 2005 is, projected to fall to 6.5 percent o f GDP following the
reversal o f the one-off factors of 2004 noted above (see paragraph 108 on macroeconomic risks).
Prospects for export growth with reforms are expected to slowly improve as structural reforms improve
the competitiveness o f FYR Macedonian companies. At the same time, tight fiscal policy should contain
demand for imports. Under this reform scenario, the current account deficit is projected to gradually
decline below 5 percent o f GDP. The privatization o f the electricity company expected inearly 2006 and
other planned privatizations will help boost the international reserve cover to about 4 months o f imports.
The evolution o f external debt would be benign under this scenario. Gross external debt i s projected to


                                                       3

remain below 40 percent o f GDP and the debt service ratio i s projected to remain below 10 percent with
the exception o f 2006 when a large repayment of Brady bonds falls due. Debt sustainability analysis
conducted by the IMFfor the new SBA suggests that extemal debt sustainability underscores the need for
structural reforms. Bound tests point to temporary vulnerabilities before debt ratios retum to a declining
path. But a scenario based on key variables reverting to historical levels (slow growth, low foreign direct
investment, and wide current account deficits) indicates that debt sustainability could become
unsustainable. This highlightsthe disappointing economic performance o fthe past decade and stressesthe
need to reduce the current account deficit, attract foreign direct investment, and accelerate growth.

                            Table 1: FYR Ma !doniaKey Economic Indicators
                                                   2003       2004       2005         2006        2007      2008
                                                  Actual          Estimate                      Projected

National Accounts
  GDP (US$million)                                4,666       5,355      5,609        5,937       6,329     6,756
  Real GDP growth rate                             2.8         2.9       3.7           4.0         4.5       4.5
  Investments (percentage o f GDP)                 19.8       21.6       21.7          21.9       22.3      22.8
  Gross National Savings (percentage o f GDP)      16.6       13.9       15.2          16.2       17.3      18.3

 Fiscal Accounts (percentage o f GDP)
   Expenditures                                    38.2       35.9       38.8          35.3       33.9      33.1
   Revenues, including grants                      38.1       36.6       38.0          34.8       33.3      32.5
   Deficit, including grants                       -0.1        0.7       -0.8          -0.6        -0.6      -0.6

 External Accounts (Percentage o f GDP)
   Exports of Goods and Services                   37.6       40.1       44.1          44.9       45.5      46.0
   Imports of Goods and Services                   54.4       60.6       63.7          63.3        62.8     62.3
   Current Account balance, includingtransfers     -3.2        -7.7      -6.5          -5.7        -5.0      -4.5
   External debt                                   40.2       37.5       38.2          37.1        35.7      34.5
   Gross reserves (months of imports)               4.1        3.2        3.6           4.1        4.2       4.3

 Inflation
   Consumer Prices (period average)                 1 9
                                                    1.L        -0.4        1.2          1.8        2.0       2.0
Sources: Ministry of Finance; National Bank of tt Republic of Macedonia; State Statistics Office; and World Bank staff
projections.

17.       Gross extemal financing requirements are expected to increase in 2006 to about $800 million
largely due to the expected build up o f international reserves and the Brady bond repayment. Depending
on market conditions and markets perceptions o f FYR Macedonia's improved creditworthiness, the
Govemment i s considering its first issuance of a Eurobond in late 2005. Gross external financing
requirements are then expected to fall back towards $600 million in 2007 and 2008. The IMFprogram i s
expected to move to a precautionary mode following an initialpurchase of SDR 10.5 million.



                                 111.    THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM

 18.      InMay 2005 the Govemment adopted an economic program which builds on the policy agenda
implemented during the first two years o f the Government's tenure. The policy agenda focuses on
improving living standards, ensuring political and social stability, supporting job creation, and reducing
corruption. This program i s broadly consistent with the Government's commitments under the
Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA) with the EU. In fact, the broad consensus across the
political spectrum for European integration has emboldened the Government to accelerate structural
reforms and to implement the Ohnd Agreement. FYR Macedonia was the first country to sign an S A A


                                                         4

with the EU(April 2001). The SAA requires the gradual alignment o flaws, institutionsandpolicies to the
acquis communautaire.FYRMacedonia formally submitted an applicationto the EUinApril 2004.

19.      The Government implemented a reform program supported by the Public Sector Management
Adjustment Loan (PSMAL) the final tranche o f which was released inJune 2005. These reforms include:
(i)budgetformulation, aimed at increasing the usefulness o f the budget as a strategic policy instrument
and ensuring that the Government i s capable o f formulating a budget within macroeconomic constraints;
(ii) execution,aimedat strengtheningthe Treasury's controlover spendingcommitments and
    budget
extrabudgetary funds; (iii)   audit, aimed at establishing an internal audit department in the Ministry o f
Finance (MoF) and in other key Government agencies, and also aimed at strengthening the external audit
capacities o f the State Audit Office; (iv) improving procurement, through the adoption o f a new
procurement law and the creation o f a specialized procurement bureau within the MoF; (v) civil service,
aimed at improving mechanisms for merit-based hiring and introducing a uniform, decompressed salary
structure for the civil service; (vi) health sector reform, aimed at improving the intemal control system in
the Health Insurance Fund (HiF) as well as in the procurement o f drugs; and (vii) social protection
reform, aimed at improving the administrationand targeting o f social transfers.

20.      The Govemment also has focused on implementing the Ohrid Agreement which sets out specific
reforms aimed at ensuring the rights o f minority communities. The agreement commits the Govemment
to ensuring "equitable representation" o f minorities in FYR Macedonia's public administration.
Significant progress has been made in this respect despite the challenges posed by cuts in public sector
employment, an overall freeze in the public sector wage bill and Government efforts at civil service
reform which aims at a merit-based recruitment strategy for the civil service. Another major element o f
the Ohrid Agreement i s a commitment to decentralize a substantial number o f Government functions to
local governments. The Government has made progress inimplementingthe decentralization components
of the Ohrid agreement. In July, 2004, Parliament approved a new law on local finance. The most
controversial step to date has been the enactment o f the law on territorial reorganization inAugust, 2004
which, having withstood the referendum inNovember 2004, now completes the basic legal framework for
decentralization.

21.      The M a y 2005 reform agenda focuses on maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework,
reforms to improve the business environment, financial sector reform, labor market reform, and
decentralization. This reform agenda also complements the Judicial Reform Strategy adopted in
December 2004.



               IV.      BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENTSTRATEGY

LINKTOCAS

22.      The CAS was discussed at the Board on September 9, 2003 (Document No.R2003-0158). It
identifies three main objectives for Bank intervention: (i) promote the efficient management o f public
                                                              to
resources and tackle corruption; (ii)   to promote reconciliation, build human capital and protect the most
vulnerable; (iii)to promotejob creation through private-sector-driven growth. The proposedPDPLwould
focus primarily on the first and third of these objectives. Technical assistance to implement the proposed
reforms would be financed through the ongoing Dutch Trust Fundas well as the complementary Health
Sector Reform Project, the Social Protection Implementation Project, and the Cadastre Project. The
proposed Judicial Reform Project and the recently approved Business Environment and Institutional
Strengthening Project would also support the implementation o f PDPL-supportedreforms and have been
designed inclose collaborationwith the design o f the proposed PDPL.




                                                        5

23,     The CAS indicates the triggers for moving to the highcase scenario, each o fwhich has beenmet.

            0    Satisfactory macroeconomic performance as demonstrated by successful implementation
                 o f a government program supportedbythe IMF.

            0    Implement control over commitments to improve budget execution.


            0    Amend the law on public procurement and issue implementing regulations on
                 accountability and transparency.

            0    Complete external audit o f the HIF's systems o f control and develop and action plan to
                 implement the recommendations.

            0    Progress towards achieving CAS Outcome benchmarks.

                       i.Integrate extra-budgetary funds (EBFs)into budgetpreparation andreporting
                          systems. Status: fully accomplished.

                      ii.Extendannualextemalauditcoverageofbudgetusers from 10to 25percent.
                          Status: good progress (see paragraph 97 below).

                     iii.Reduce average loan spreads from 9 percent to 6-7 percent. Status: fully
                          accomplished, loan spreads fell to 5 percent by end 2004.

                     iv. Increaseprivate sector participationininfrastructure. Status: goodprogress.

                      v. Increase access to agreed poverty monitoringdatasets. Status goodprogress.

            0    Maintain a maximum o f one problem project inthe portfolio.

24.     The high case scenario o f the CAS envisaged a program o f $165 million including three
adjustment loans: a Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL) o f $30 million and two
Programmatic Adjustment Loans (PSALs) o f $15 million each in FY 2005 and FY 2006. The PSMAL
was approved by the Board inFY 2004 as envisaged. The final tranche conditions o f the PSMAL have all
been met and the second tranche was released inJune 2005. The PSALs have evolved into the proposed
first PDPL presented inthis Program Document. Given the Government's strong policy performance and
highfinancing requirements, the first PDPL is proposed to be inthe amount of $30 million which is the
upper amount envisaged inthe CAS for adjustment lending. The amount o f the proposed second and third
PDPLswould be determined inthe course o f the preparation o fthe next CAS.


COLLABORATIONWITH THE IMPAND OTHERDONORS

25.     The new IMF program has a heavy structural component reinforcing a number o f reforms to be
supported under the proposed PDPL. The Bank and Fund teams have coordinated intensively to ensure
that: the two institutions give consistent policy advice and that areas o f overlap are limited to supporting
politically challenging and important reforms where the weight o f both institutions would be needed.
Coordination has included participation in each other's preparation missions and extensive intra-mission
meetings between the two teams. This cooperation builds on the close coordination under the current
PSMAL and former Stand-by Arrangement as well as the joint Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) report preparedin2003. Also, Bank staff contributedto the recent Ex Post Assessment.




                                                      6

26.     The PDPL team has worked closely with other donors active in FYR Macedonia. At the end o f
each mission the team summarized their findings at a donor coordination meeting. Team members also
visited the European Commission to exchange views on the reform agenda ahead. The potential
components o f the program have been proposed following close consultation with donors involved in
each o f these areas. The other active donors include the Dutch Government, the European Agency for
Reconstruction, the European Commission, USAID, and UK DFID.


ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

27.     The proposed PDPL i s heavily based on a series o f recent economic and sector work. The
Country Economic Memorandum o f September 2003 focused on reforms needed to tackle unemployment
and stressed the need for the simultaneous implementation o f labor market reforms and reforms to
improve the investment climate. The FSAF' focused on issues of corporate and financial sector
governance, bank regulation and supervision, the legal and judicial framework. In2003, the CFAA and
CPAR built on the analysis o f the 2000 PER which together formed the basis for PSMAL supported
reforms in public expenditure management including internal and external auditing, public procurement,
and budget formulation and execution.

28.     The Bank completed a Judicial Reform Assessment in June 2005. The work on this assessment
has come intime to inform the preparation o f the first proposed PDPL. A number o f important analytical
studies began in M a y 2005 are yielding recommendations which will be incorporated into the second and
thirdproposedPDPLs. These include a ROSC on corporate governance being carriedout inconjunction
with a study on financial sector governance and a diagnostic on financial sector supervision.


                        V. THE PROPOSEDPDPLREFORM PROGRAM
29.     A number o f factors discourage growth andjob creation inFYR Macedonia. The exchange rate
regime has not been sufficiently supported by key structural reforms and has thus required tight
macroeconomic policies in an overly rigid economy. The results have been depressed growth and, more
recently, deflation. Critical rigidities include the following. An inefficient and opaque judicial system
obstructs creditor, contract and property rights and hampers the effectiveness o f key government agencies
and supervisory bodies from enforcing administrative sanctions such as fines, penalties and actions to
revoke licenses. Inflexible product and labor markets, high payroll taxes, a burdensome regulatory
environment, and poor corporate and financial sector governance impede job and new business creation.
A poorly functioningbankruptcyregimehinders firmexit andthe secondary transformation o fownership.
These flaws in the investment climate are compounded by weak public sector governance which further
undermines investor sentiment.

30.     A series o f PDPLs is proposed to support the Government's development policies across a
number o f interconnected reform areas. The Government has recognized that comprehensive judicial
reform i s urgently needed to firmly establish the rule o f law including creditor, contract and property
rights. After engaging in a critical dialogue with social partners regarding an overhaul o f the labor law
and institutions to introduce more flexibility into FYRMacedonian labor markets, a new Labor Law was
enacted in July 2005. The Government also recognizes the importance o f increasing competition in the
economy and the need to establish an environment that facilitates efficient entry and exit o f firms as well
as a regulatory environment which i s conducive to dynamic private sector activity. A corporate
governance ROSC and a banking sector governance assessment were begun in M a y 2005. A diagnostic
on financial sector supervision was conducted in July and August 2005. These assessments are yielding
key recommendations which will be integrated into the second and third PDPLs.Finally, the Government
remains committed to continuing reforms initiated under the PSMAC and PSMAL to builda meritocratic,




                                                      7

    rules-based, transparent public sector through the continuation o f public administration reforms, health
    care reforms, and decentralization as envisaged under the Ohrid agreement.

    31.     Sustained improvements in the investment climate would also require a reduction in perceived
    political and geopolitical risk.The continued implementationo f the OhridAgreement, continued progress
    toward eventual EU membership, and the successful implementation o f a final status arrangement in
    neighboring Kosovo ultimately could prove as important to the investment climate inFYRMacedonia as
    the proposed PDPLreform program.

    32.     The objective o f the proposed PDPLs would be to promote economic growth and formal sector
    job creation in FYR Macedonia through improving: (i)          the investment climate, and (ii)    governance and
    efficiency o f the public sector. The proposed PDPL will also support the Government's efforts to carry
    out intensive structural and institutional reforms required for EUaccession.

                               Table 2 Summary of the ProposedPDPL Program
Pillar Objective         Reform Area          Issues/actions

Improving the            Judicial Reform      Reduce backlog and delays incourt proceedings
[nvestment Climate                            Improve enforcement o f court judgments
                                              Improveregulatory and implementation framework for bankruptcy cases
                                              Increase transparency and fairness o f administrative agency decisions
                                              Increase institutional capacity to implementand monitor reforms
                         Labor Market         Enhance labor market flexibility
                         Reform
                         Strengthening         Strengthen banking supervisionandregulation
                         Financial Sector
                         Regulation and        Strengthen compliance o f banks with AML and CTF requirements
                         Supervision
                         Improving the         Strengthen corporate governance o f the enterprise sector
                         Business
                         Environment           Adopt a quality-oriented approach to regulatory reforms
                                               Implement abusiness-friendlysystem for business registration
                                               Enhance the quality o f corporate financial reporting

Strengthening Public     Public                Improve institutional arrangements for effective strategic prioritization
Sector Governance        Administration
                         Reform                Develop aprofessional, politically neutral civil service, managed on the basis o f
                                               merit, rather thanpolitical loyalty
                                               Revise salary structures public administration to ensure consistently competitive
                                               yet fiscally sustainable remuneration across requiredtypes ofhuman capital
                         Improving             Strengthen HIFGovernance and the healthpolicy making environment
                         Governance and
                         Transparency o f      Improve budget planning and control, financial management andprocurement in
                         the HealthSector      HIF,MOHandHCIs

                         Decentralization      Transfer distribution formula
                                               Municipal arrears workout
                                               Financing teachers' salaries
                                               Decentralization strategy




                                                              8

33.      Table 2 summarizes the reform areas and issues/actions proposed to be covered under each pillar.
The attached Policy Matrix spells this out in more detail across the proposed 3 year program. The
investment climate pillar i s proposed to include judicial reform, labor market reform, financial sector
reform, and business regulatory reform. The public sector governance pillar i s proposed to include public
administration reform, health care reform, and decentralization.


Pillar 1:Improvingthe InvestmentClimate

34.      JudicialReform: The efficient, effective and fair enforcement o f creditor, contract andproperty
rights are key ingredients in a business climate that promotes investment and growth. The EU has also
made the proper, efficient functioning o f independent judicial institutions a key criterion in its analysis
and assessment o f progress in FYR Macedonia's application for accession. In December 2004, the
Government adopted a comprehensive Strategy on the Reform o f the Judicial Sector (Reform Strategy).
The development and adoption o f this Reform Strategy have been critical first steps in the process o f
modernizing FYRMacedonia'sjudicial institutions.

35.      The Reform Strategy has been devised to address many o f the inefficiencies and obstacles to the
effective functioning o f the judicial system. It notes that change in the judicial sector must be
comprehensive and should be guided by two priorities:           (i)strengthening the independence ofthe
judiciary; and (ii)reorganizing the court system to better address complex civil, commercial and criminal
cases, while reorganizing the courts' jurisdiction to address the many administrative and misdemeanor
cases. The PDPL program focuses on a,subset o f this strategy which addresses obstacles to the
enforcement o f contract, creditor and property rights.

36.      Issues: The World Bank's Doing Business Report 2004 indicates that the time and cost o f
enforcing contracts and conducting bankruptcies i s considerably higher than most neighboring European
and Central Asian countries. In addition, weak judicial recognition and enforcement o f real property or
landregistration rights ("security o f title") have hinderedthe efficient sale, transfer and commercialuse o f
real property. Procedural deficiencies and abuses have caused some o f these enforcement problems. The
recently enacted Law on Civil Procedure will address many o f the deficiencies. The bottleneck caused by
misdemeanor cases has contributed to the significant backlog o f cases facing the court system. Under the
Constitution misdemeanor and administrative disputes require court action for enforcement. The
Government has reached a preliminary agreement with the opposition and the Parliament on its plan to
prepare critical amendments to the Constitution to increase the independence of the judiciary and the
efficiency of court proceedings. The Reform Strategy then calls for the enactment o f a number o f new
laws to further reduce backlogs and delays incourt proceedings including: the Misdemeanor Law, Law on
Courts, Law on Administrative Disputes and L a w on Republic Judicial C o ~ n c i l . ~In addition new
legislationwill create ajudicial training academy.

37.      At the end o f 2003, the enforcement of judgments in approximately 175,000 general cases and
35,000 commercial cases was pending due to a poor legal framework and lack o f sufficient capacity
within the courts. The Reform Strategy recognizes the need to revamp the enforcement o f court
judgments and the recently adopted L a w on Enforcementwill move FYRMacedonia towards a system o f
regulated and licensed enforcement agents outside o f the courts. However, the development o f
implementingregulations and the creation o f a competent, professional group o f enforcement agents will
require time and great care in order to improve the efficiency o f enforcement while protecting citizens'
rights.




 The enactment ofmany of these laws await proposedchanges to the Constitutionexpectedinlate 2005or early
2006.


                                                       9

38.     FYR Macedonia's bankruptcy proceedings have been open to delay and abuse. While
improvements are being drafted in the bankruptcy law, the major shortcoming i s the inefficient
implementation o f the law. Implementation i s hindered by a lack o f understanding o f the role and purpose
o f bankruptcy in a market economy, both within and outside the judiciary, as well as lack o f a
professional cadre o fbankruptcy trustees.

39.     Under the current Constitution, Govemment agencies and supervisory bodies such as the National
Bank, Public Revenue Office, the Telecommunications Regulator, the Energy Regulator, the Competition
Agency, and Labor Inspector, lack adequate authority and power to issue and enforce administrative
sanctions such as fines, penalties or actions to revoke a license. Another proposed change to the
Constitution would remove the requirement for court action for the enforcement o f administrative
disputes. The Parliament recently enacted a new Law on General Administrative Procedures. The
Govemment will draft a new L a w on Administrative Disputes which will need to be accompanied with
changes inadministrative policy, procedure and practices in order to ensure that supervisory bodies apply
their sanction powers ina transparent andfair manner.

40.     The Reform Strategy lays out a comprehensive reform but needs to ensure sufficient institutional
mechanisms for the supervision and coordination o f the implementation process. For instance, a robust
assessment o f the fiscal impact o f the Reform Strategy was not included inthe strategy and i s only now
being carried out with assistance from USAID. The Judicial Reform Council currently lacks sufficient
human and financial resources to monitor, coordinate, and revise the implementation o f the Reform
Strategy. In addition, the Court Budget Office (located in the Supreme Court) lacks the staff and other
resources needed to conduct the functional analysis o f court operations and provide analytical reports
necessary for improved court management and administration.

41.     Reform Strategy: Under the PDPL the proposed key policies to support the judicial reform are
the following:

                Reduce backlog and delays in court proceedings:             Under the PDPL program, a
                transparent and consultative legislative and regulatory drafting procedure will be used to
                develop critical pieces o f legislation and regulation, including the Civil Procedure
                (Litigation) L a w (PDPL l),  Law on Misdemeanors (PDPL 2), Law on Courts (PDPL 2),
                and the Law on Administrative Disputes (PDPL 2) to increase the independence o f the
                judiciary and the pace and efficiency o fthe court system.

                Improve enforcement of court judgments:           Following the passage o f the Law on
                Enforcement (PDPL 1) and in order to establish a competent and effective enforcement
                agent service, the PDPL i s proposed to support the adoption o f necessary by-laws,
                creation o f a supervision capacity inthe Ministry o f Justice (PDPL2) and creation o f self-
                regulating enforcement agent agency (PDPL 2).

                Improve regulatory and implementationframework for bankruptcy cases: The PDPL
                i s proposedto support strengthening o f the bankruptcy law (PDPL 2) and the institutional
                development o f a profession o f bankruptcy trustees, including the creation o f a
                monitoring and disciplining mechanism for trustees (PDPLs 2 and 3).

                Increase speed, transparency and fairness of administrative decisions: PDPL i s
                proposed to support: (i)the development and passage o f the Law on General
                Administrative Procedure (PDPL 1); and, following the adoption o f the planned
                constitutional amendment removing the requirement o f ajudicial order for administrative
                 sanctions, (ii)a new Law on Administrative Disputes (PDPL 2); and (iii)         measures to




                                                     10

                   assist govemment supervisory bodies with the fair exercise o f administrative sanction
                   responsibility (PDPLs 2 and 3).

                   Increase institutional capacity to implement and monitor reforms Strategy: Under the
                   PDPL program the Government will adequately finance and staff the Judicial Reform
                   Council and the Court Budget Office to monitor implementation o f the Reform Strategy
                   and to monitor and report on capital and continuing court expenses and provide ongoing
                   functional analyses o fjudicial operations, respectively.

42.      Expected Results: Over the course o f the PDPL program period, FYR Macedonia expects to be
on a path to a more efficient and effective enforcement o f contract, creditor and property rights by courts
and enforcement institutions and achieve the following:

              0    EU assessment o f judicial sector showing annual progress in adapting to EU standards
                   and best practices;

              0    A 15% reduction inthe meantime to dispose o f a commercial case from 223 to 189 days
                   as measuredby Closed Case Surveys by July 31,2007

43.      Labor Market Reform.Throughout the past decade FYRMacedonia has had one o fthe highest
unemployment rates among the transition countrie~.~            Highunemployment and low employmentrates are
mainly due to lack of demand for labor. This, in turn, stems from a business environment which i s not
conducive to investment and job creation as well as the impact o f high payroll taxes' and current labor
regulations which hinder private sector activity and encourage informality. In undertaking labor refom,
the Government intends to follow EU Directives, ILO Conventions and intemational best practices in
drafting the new Labor Law.6

44. . Issues: Many components o f the legal framework for labor in FYR Macedonia have been
amongst the most rigid o f all transition economies. This has contributed to a stagnant formal sector labor
market, with high unemployment, limited opportunities for new entrants, and a large informal sector.
Labor regulations and minimumstandards were set inboth the Labor Law approved in 1993 (as amended)
and two General Collective Agreements from 1994 (as amended) - one for the private sector, and another
for the public sector.

45.      The institutional framework for individual labor contracts needs significant strengthening. Labor
contracts are often not respected and enforced inFYRMacedonia. This reduces confidence in other labor
and non-labor contracts and contributes to an environment characterized by wide-spread wage arrears and


~




 According to the 2004 labor force survey 309,300 individuals out o f an 832,300 economically active population
were unemployed (a rate o f 37.2 percent). More than 85 percent o f the unemployed were out o f ajob for more than
one year. Again, the unemployment data likely overstate by a significant degree, the true level o f unemployment.
One indication o f this is the relative low level o fpoverty.
'The  Government has launched withtechnical assistancefrom the IMFa multi-year strategy to consolidate the
collection o fpersonal income taxes and social security contributions. The Government will consider possible
gayroll tax rate reductions as this reformprogresses.
 The EuropeanCouncil Decisiono f23 July 2003 onits guidelines for the employment policies of the Member
States (2003/578/EC) suggests that Member States must: (i)     encouragejob creation by supporting entrepreneurship
and a favorable business environment for enterprises, (ii)   simplify andreduce the bureaucracy, regulations and
administrationgoverning: starting business, hiring staff and accessing start-up capital, (iii)
                                                                                            reform overly restrictive
employment legislation that affect labor market dynamics, (iv) promote flexible and diverseforms o f labor
agreements and working arrangements, (v) improve access to training andre-training for employees; (vi) remove
disincentives to work (e.g. simplifyregulations, provide incentives) and develop actions to eliminate undeclared
employment.


                                                             11

other violations and an enormous employment inthe informal sector, estimated at about one third o f the
labor force.

46.     Employers, especially in the SME sector, would benefit from increased flexibility in working
hours. Although the Labor Law allows part time employment, the effective payroll tax for part-timers has
been prohibitive since the floor set for social contributions i s based on 65 percent o f the average monthly
sectoral wage for full-time work.

47.     Inan environment which increasingly demands flexibility, dismissal costs have been excessive.
Employment could be terminated through notice due to economic, technological, structural or similar
transformations, but the process was unnecessarily cumbersome and costly to employers. Under these
circumstances firms were not able to easily adjust to market changes. Furthermore, mandatory minimum
severance payments were capped at 8 months' salaries, a very highlevel even by regional standards.

48.     Finally, bargaining on terms and conditions o f employment shouldbecome more market driven in
order to overcome rigidities o f the current labor market. Also, labor dispute settlement mechanisms were
narrow and not suited to the demand o f a market economy.

49.     Reform Strategy: Under the PDPL the proposed key policies to support labor reform are the
following:

                 Enhancing labor market flexibility through signifcant changes in the legislative
                 framework A new labor law was enacted inJuly 2005 (PDPL 1).The law: (i)             promotes
                 more diversified employment contracts, by ending restrictions on the use o f fixed-term,
                 temporary and part-time employment contracts while allowing for a provision whereby
                 the cumulative duration o f fixed-term contracts cannot exceed 4 years; (ii)     relaxes pre-
                 conditions for valid dismissal and limit severance pay to a maximum o f 6 individual
                 monthly salaries; (iii) increases the scope for overtime work by increasing the yearly
                 limit on overtime to 190 hours annually, with lower levels for minors; (iv) ensures that
                 collective bargaining i s done on a voluntary basis so that collective agreements are
                 binding only to parties who are signatories to such agreements, in line with ILO
                 Convention N o 144 and Recommendations No 113 and 152 on tripartite consultations;
                 and (v) establishes methods for labor dispute resolution as an alternatives to strikes and
                 litigation to limitthe social and economic costs o f industrial disputes.

             e   Subsequent PDPLs will support the further implementation o f this legislative framework.
                 Alternative labor dispute resolution institutions will be established (PDPL 2). Also,
                 nationally representative social partners will renegotiate the General Collective
                 Agreements consistent with the revised Labor Law (PDPL 3). This would be followed by
                 renegotiation o f branch collective agreements and collective agreements at firm level, as
                 necessary. All collective agreements will be effective for a fixed term. Negotiations will
                 be carried out ina tripartite manner with representative participation of eachparty.

50.     Expected Results: Over the course o f the program period, FYR Macedonia expects that labor
reform will have a positive impact on the labor market by creating a more conducive environment for
creation o f productive employment opportunities and enhancement o f social dialogue.

             e   Short-term monitoring indicators would include: an increase in the share o f workforce
                 with formal labor contracts, the share o f workers withpart-time and fixed term contracts,
                 and an increase inthe number o f contributors to payroll taxes.




                                                      12

                 In the longer-term increased flexibility in the labor market combined with other
                 improvements in the investment climate should result inhigher labor participationrates,
                 employment to population ratios, youth unemployment rates and share o f women and
                 youth intotal labor contracts as well as reduced shares o f long-termunemployed to total
                 unemployed.

51.     Strengthening Financial Sector Regulation and Supervision. Over the past years, FYR
Macedonia has taken several important steps to build a sound and stable financial sector. The
privatization, restructuring, and liquidation o f the banking and enterprise sectors i s largely completed; the
legal, regulatory and supervisory framework for the banking sector has been strengthened; the National
Bank o f the Republic o f Macedonia (NBRM) has successfully adopted a compliance-based approach to
banking supervision and a new audit law - which i s drafted to be largely in line with EUrequirements -
has been submitted to Parliament.

52.     Issues: However, muchneeds to be done to improve the role o f the financial sector inproviding
access to credit and financial services, including full implementation o f recently enacted legislation. In
fact, the enterprise sector's access to finance i s poor, restricted to relatively basic banking products and
constrained by weak banking competition. The 2003 Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP)
highlights poor transparency o f the ownership and control structure o f the banking sector, limited
presence o f well-regarded foreign strategic investors in the capital o f banks, poor financial reporting in
the enterprise and financial sectors, and weak enforcement o f contracts, and o f creditor and property
rightsas major constraints to the sound development o fthe financial and enterprise sectors.

53.     The privatization o f the banking sector has reduced state ownership to a very limited level and
resulted in a significant share o f foreign investors inthe equity o f banks. However, the privatization has
not favored strategic investors and has led to the large presence o f non-financial corporate investors (both
foreign and domestic) in the banking sector. Some banks continue to have a very opaque ownership and
control structures that results in: (i)difficulties in conducting effective supervision; (ii)high risk o f
connected lending and money laundering; and (iii)        difficulties in attracting investment from reputable
foreign banks. Also, despite the significant results achieved over the past few years, additional efforts are
needed to further strengthen the supervisory capacity o f the NBRM and move towards a more risk-based
approachto supervision.

54.     Reform Strategy: Under the PDPL the proposed key policies to support the strengthening o f
financial sector regulation and supervision are the following:

                 Strengthen banking supervisionand regulation. Under the PDPLprogram a supervisory
                 development plan (SDP) for bank supervision will be implemented by the NBRM
                 (PDPLs 2 and 3). This SDP will represent a shift towards a more risk-based supervision
                 and will promote stronger governance o f the banking sector. A banlung sector
                 governance assessment begun in May 2005 i s                   also likely to propose key
                 recommendations to strengthen the governance o f banks and could be incorporated in the
                 PDPL 2 and 3 programs.

                 Strengthening compliance of banks with Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Counter
                 Terrorism Financing (CTF) requirements. Under the PDPL program a review o f the
                 N B R M ' s manual on assessing banks' compliance with AML requirements will be
                 conducted (PDPL 2) and fit and proper screening procedures for applicants for banking
                 licenses will be strengthened (PDPL3).




                                                       13

55.      Expected results: Over the course o f the PDPL, FYR Macedonia expects to achieve the
following:

             0   Strengthened supervisory capacity o f the banking sector with migration toward increased
                 transparency, disclosure, and a risk based supervisory approach leading to improved
                 compliance with regulation and concrete corrective actions with specific banks.

56.      Improving the Business Environment. FYR Macedonia's business environment suffers from
weak corporate governance and a burdensome stock o f regulatory and administrative constraints which
hamper business entry, operations and exit7 The lack o f reliable financial information on business
operations due to weak accounting and auditing standards also constrain financial intermediationand new
investment.

57.      Issues: The lack o f a level playing field appears to be a major issue in FYR Macedonia's
business environment. Opaque ownership structures and a weak disclosure framework obscure the
picture, but anecdotal evidence suggests that a few business groups dominate the economy.

58.      The business environment also suffers from burdensome regulations affecting business entry and
operations. Regulation lacks a clear strategic vision with little inter-ministerial coordination. Weak
institutional capacity and poor consultation mechanisms with the business community have also
contributed to the current burdensome regulatory environment. The FIAS 2003 Administrative Barriers
Review and Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS) highlight a lack o f clarity inthe existing
regulations (72 percent), instability o f laws and regulations (60 percent), and corruption in the public
sector (87 percent) as major weaknesses in FYR Macedonia's business environment. Most FIAS
recommendations have not been implemented and the Government has made little progress inremoving
regulatory and administrative barriers to foreign direct investment. As a result, the business sector
continues to operate under burdensome regulations which also hamper the entry o f new firms.

59.      However, the Government has recently begun to address these issues. It has committed to
establish an institutional framework and processes for implementation o f regulatory reforms. A unit has
been established in the General Secretariat responsible for improving the quality o f existing and new
regulations through the adoption o f methodologies such as the guillotine and the regulatory impact
assessment (RIA).'

60.      The Government recently decided to remove business registration from the courts and establish a
"one-stop-shop system". A working group has been established to draft a separate law on registrationand
the "one-stop-shop system" which envisages business registration being transferred to the Central
Registry and ensuring procedures will be short, transparent and inexpensive.

61.      Financial intermediation and investment also suffer from the lack o freliable financial information
on businesses. Following the recommendations made by the 2003 Report on Observance and Codes
(ROSC) on Accounting and Auditing, and after some delays, a new audit law has been submitted to
Parliament which will improve the quality o f financial reporting. Implementationand enforcement o f this
framework will be a challenge.



 Weaknesses inthe bankruptcy framework are discussed above inthe judicial reform component o f the proposed
 rogram.
`The Guillotine approach, usedby countries suchas Sweden, Hungary andMexico, is based ona quick and
automatic review and reform o fregulatory measures with the automatic elimination o f unjustified ones.


                                                      14

62.     Reform Strategy: Under the PDPL the proposed key policies to support improvements in the
business environment are the following:

            a  Strengthening the governance of the enterprise sector. Under the first PDPL the
                Government has undertaken corporate governance assessment (ROSC) regarding OECD
                corporate governance principles as well as a banking governance assessment. Subsequent
               PDPLs are proposed to support the implementation o f key recommendations o f the
               ROSC on Corporate Governance. This may include Parliament approval o f amendments
               to the company and securities laws.

            a  Adopt a quality-oriented approach to regulatory reforms to improve the quality of
               existing and new regulations affecting business activity. The second PDPL i s proposed
               to support the enactment and implementation o f legislation establishing a permanent
               body in the General Secretariat which will implement the regulatory impact assessment
               system and institutionalize mandatory consultation mechanisms with the business
               community.

           a   Implement a business-friendly system for business registration. The second PDPL i s
               proposed to support the enactment and implementation o f a business registrationlaw and
               corresponding regulations.

               Enhance the quality of corporatefinancial reporting. Following the recommendations
               o f the ROSC on Accounting and Auditing, under the first PDPL a new audit law will be
               enacted. Subsequent PDPLs are proposed to support the implementation o f this
               legislation including: the establishment and operations o f the Institute o f Certified
               Auditors (PDPL 2); (iii)   implementation o f International Financial Reporting Standards
               (IFRS) and International Standards for Auditing (ISA) in the business sector (banking
               and corporate) and I S A in public interest entities (PDPL 3) ; and (iv) the adoption o f a
               Code of Professional Ethics for Accountants as promulgated by the International
               Federation o f Accountants (IFAC), (PDPL 3).

63.     Expected Results: Over the course o f the PDPL program, FYRMacedonia expects to achieve the
following :

               Improved perception o f foreign and domestic investors o f the investment climate and
               reduced administrative and regulatory barriers to investment (FIAS 2007 Administrative
               and Regulatory Costs Survey, ARCS).


Pillar2: StrengtheningPublic Sector Governance

64.     Strategic Management. The Government has improved its capacity to make tough policy
choices. Supported by the PSMAL, the Government has implemented a series o f budget formulation
process improvements. A mediumterm fiscal strategy for 2004-2006 was approvedby the Government in
2004. Hardbudget ceilings for each of the first line budget entities were approved by the Government in
June 2004and provided to the entities as part o f their budget instructions. These were ultimately reflected
inthe 2005 Budgetapproved byParliament.

65.     Duringthe same period, the General Secretariat and Ministryo f Finance prepared strategic plans
designed to ensure that their organizations would be equipped to deliver on the stronger policy and fiscal
management role envisioned by new legislation. A milestone was achieved with the issuance, in




                                                     15

September 2003, o f a Government Decision on the Adoption of the Methodologyfor Strategic Planning
and Preparation of an Annual WorkProgram of the Government of FYR Macedonia.

66.     Issues: The strategic planning effort i s not yet fully effective. Ministries and other budget users
generally fail to use it as a tool for serious business process redesign. While a few good examples o f
effective use o f that process do exist (e.g., Ministry o f Defense, General Secretariat), the Government
needs to find a strategy to ensure that line ministries and other budget entities will use the process more
effectively. Importantly, the process needs to be employed to address key human resource management
challenges; in particular, reconfiguring staffing composition within individual budget entities so as to
ensure the skill sets required for meeting priority objectives, while simultaneously ensuring that wage bill
targets are respected. In fact, some o f the reforms which could be supported by the proposed PDPL
require a number o fbudget users to strategically and quickly undertake such a staffing reconfiguration.

67.     Over the next three years, the Government should continue implementation o f the strategic
planning methodology. This effort should be closely linked with the budget formulation process
improvements introduced during 2003-04, as well as the Acts o f Systematization process, in order to
ensure that staff redeployment challenges are effectively addressed. The Government should also improve
monitoring o f the costs and impacts o f key programs and policies and ensure that such information i s
widely and publicly available, so as to foster debate about their effectiveness.

68.     Reform strategy:Under the PDPLthe proposedkey policies to support strategic management are
the following:

             0   Develop institutional arrangements and capacities thatpermit more effective strategic
                 prioritization The PDPL i s proposed to support the implementation o f a strategic
                 prioritization and planning process reform which will be integrated into the annual budget
                 preparation process. The Government will also establish a mechanism for monitoring and
                 publicizing systematic evidence on intermediate impacts o f civil service and public
                 expenditure management reforms (PDPL 1).

69.     Expected results: Over the course o f the PDPL program period, FYR Macedonia expects to
achieve the following:

             0   Programmatic summary o f budget allocations shows increases (or, at least, no net
                 reductions) in shares o f total General Government budget allocated to policy priorities
                 enunciated in the Government Program, as reflected in (a) programmatic ceilings
                 established in the annual Budget Circular, and (b) final budget allocations approved by
                 Parliament.

             0   Percentage difference between budget ceilings established in annual Budget Circular
                 (BC) and Budget User's (BU's) initial proposed budgets (BU-specific and average in
                 absolute value terms across BU's).Target: Tendency to fall over time.

             0   Average deviation o f budget units' actual expenditures fkom budgeted. Target: Tendency
                 to fall over time.

             0   Number o f days between end o f fiscal year and the publication o f the final report by the
                 certified state auditor on state budget execution for that year. Target: <300 days and
                 declining over time.

70.      Human Resource Management. The 2000 Law on Civil Servants provided the legislative
framework for a meritocratically managed civil service system. The L a w provided for a uniform, rule-



                                                      16

based and less compressed salary structure; uniform definitions o f the types o f positions encompassed by
the civil service; and the establishment o f an independent agency, the Agency for Civil Servants (CSA),
responsible for establishing and enforcing civil service management policies and procedures. The
proposed salary decompression was repeatedly postponed, and despite the provisions o f the law, sectoral
ministries had, until recently, been able to bypass the CSA, recruiting staff for civil service positions
without competitive exams or review by the CSA. Both problems have now been addressed. A phased
decompression o f salaries has begun, and i s being implemented over a 24-month period. A payroll based
enforcement mechanism i s now inplace to ensure that civil service recruitmentprovisions are followed.

71,      Issues: An important next step i s to extend certain aspects o f the civil service reforms to the 90
percent o f public employees who are not civil servants. InMarch 2003, the Economic and Social Council
established a working group to devise a uniformposition classification and salary structure throughout the
public sector. This i s not the first time such an effort has been launched in FYR Macedonia. Previous
efforts have not yielded an agreement, inno small part because the wide variety o f functions undertaken
by FYRMacedonia's public administration call for an enormous variety o fjob skills and responsibilities.
To begin this process, a salary survey working group, under the leadership o f the CSA, has begun a
review o f remuneration structures throughout FYR Macedonia's public administration and relative to
domestic private sector comparators. The survey o f salaries should be followed by analysis o f the data
and options for enhancing transparency and competitiveness o f public administration remuneration
packages. Inthe longer term, considerable work will need to be done to modify existing pay-setting rules
and practices, so as to create institutional arrangements that can ensure a more competitive, while
affordable, public administration salary structure.

72.      Institutingpublic employment reforms will be particularly complicated inthe light of two major
constraints. The first i s the Government's commitment under the Ohrid Agreement to ensure the
"equitable representation" o f minorities in FYR Macedonia's public administration. The second i s the
tight fiscal constraints under which the country must operate. The Government hopes to satisfy these
competing objectives by relying on attrition to open up positions to which individuals from "under-
represented communities" could be recruited. This may not prove sufficient, in view o f the Government's
efforts to reconfigure staffing to better address key priorities. Moreover, it i s critical that, as the Ohrid
Agreement states, efforts to address "equitable representation" also respect "the rules governing
competence and integrity that govern public administration".

73.      Reform strategy: Under the PDPL the proposed key policies to support reform o f human
resourcemanagement inthe public sector are the following:

             0    Develop a professional, politically neutral civil service, managed on the basis of merit,
                  rather than political loyalty. Under the PDPL program an amendment to the Organic
                  Budget L a w will establish a mechanism for controlling compliance with both the
                  recruitment and selection requirements and the position classification requirements. The
                  CSA will conduct a consultative review o f the Civil Service Law (PDPL 2) and devise an
                  action plan for addressing challenges identified including possible revisions to the
                  legislation (PDPL 2).

             0    Revise salary structures within FYR Macedonia's public administration to ensure
                  consistently competitiveyet fiscally sustainable remuneration across required types of
                  human capital. Under the PDPLprogram, the Government will continue implementation
                  o f wage decompression inthe civil service begun under the PSMAL supported program.
                  Also a public/private sector salary survey will be initiated and subsequently incorporated
                  within the State Statistical Office annual work program. Finally, a legal framework
                  governing salaries o f public sector employees (ensuring fiscal sustainability and




                                                      17

                   consistency o f competitiveness o f total remuneration across positions) will be adopted
                   and implemented.

74.       Expected results: Over the course o f the PDPL program period, FYR Macedonia expects to
achieve the following:

                   Average quarterly gross turnover rates within the civil service coupled with information
                   indicating timing o f major changes in political leadership, such as a change o f
                   Government or significant reshuffling o f Ministers. Target: Spikes following changes in
                   political leadership are small, particularly relative to identical series on political
                   appointees.

                   Fraction o f civil servants for which annual performance appraisals were reported to the
                   CSA. Target: Fractiontends to approach 100% over time.

              a    Fraction o f overall performance ratings falling within each rating category. Target:
                   Ratings are not concentrated inone or two categories.

              a    Average number o f qualified (long-listed) candidates per advertised CS opening. ,Target:
                   Tends to increase over time.

              a    Ratio of average highest ranlung civil servant title total remuneration to average lowest
                   ranking civil servant title total remuneration. Target: Approaches 4.3 by PDPL3.

              a    Actual central budget wage bill including allowances as a percentage o f GDP. Target:
                   Does not exceed 8.4%.

75.       Improving the Governance, Transparency and Management of the Health Sector. A series
o f analytical work in FYR Macedoniag have identified significant public financial management risks
associated with the Health Insurance Fund(HIF).For example, the 2004 World Bank Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) identified many weaknesses in the HIF's management o f health
expenditures contributing to the chronic build-up o f arrears among health care institutions (HCIs) and
suppliers. The CFAA noted that deficits in the HIF raise concerns o f fiscal sustainability. Opaque
financial management within HIF and inadequate oversight o f HIF by the Ministries o f Health (MOH)
and Finance (MOF) leave significant scope for corruption.

76.       The fiscal and corruption risks exacerbate concerns with the quality and accessibility o f health
services inFYRMacedonia. Public opinion polls have consistently rated health services as "poor or very
poor." Household budget surveys show that out-of-pocket payments for health care are large and pose
financial   access barriers for poor households. Informal payments are rampant. Combined public and
private health spending in FYR Macedonia i s almost 10 percent o f GDP, one o f the highest in the ECA
Region and close to the levels o fEU15 countries."


  See for instance: (i) Bank. 2003, Public Expenditure and Institutional Review: FYR Macedonia; (ii)
                      World                                                                                  World
Bank. 2004. Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA): FYR Macedonia; (iii)     Burchfield K.2004.
Improving HIF Governance: Report prepared under PHRDfor Macedonia: Health Sector Management Project
(HSMP); (iv) Emst and Young. 2005. Audit o fthe HealthInsurance Fund(HIF) o fMacedonia. Emst and Young,
Luxembourg.
lo Since the 1990s,FYRMacedonia has implemented a series o f changes inthe health sector, withthe objectives of
improving performance. The Health Insurance Law o f 2000 consolidated health financing under a single public
entity, the Health Insurance Fund(HIF), which accounts for 90 percent of total public spending onhealth in
Macedonia. The health insurance systemi s based onprinciples o funiversality and solidarity, and all citizens are


                                                         18

77.      Issues: Despite the health reforms supported by the PSMAC and PSMAL there i s significant
unfinished business with reducing the fiscal risks posed by the HIF. The budget planning, financial
management and procurement inthe health sector remain inadequate and the policy making environment
remains weak. The range o f institutional weaknesses in the health sector include: (i)              the absence o f
essential budgetary functions and spending controls, resulting in the inability o f HIF to plan and
subsequently control Health Care Institution (HCI) budgets and the delivery o f health services; (ii)
contracting practices do not generate hard budget constraints for HCIs, and provide no reliable
information on the performance o f health providers;" (iii)      a weak HIF governance framework marked by
low involvement and oversight o f the MOH; (iv) a benefits package that i s not evaluated on the basis o f
effectiveness and the available resource envelope for the health sector; and (v) a weak health policy
environment and regulatory framework which do not provide a fiamework for HIF operations, with
respect to the mix o f publidprivate provision o f health services, contracting with health providers and
performance monitoring.

78.      Also, the governance and accountability o f the HIF remain weak. The HIF Board has played a
passive role in managing the affairs o f HIF. Most Board members do not have financial management
skills. The large number o f doctors and health providers on the Board represents a potential conflict o f
interest. The MOH has also not played an active oversight role with respect to the HIF. The MOH does
not have a recent health sector policy to underpin the activities o f the HIF.Inthe absence o f clear policy
guidelines on publidprivate mix inthe provision o f health services, HIFi s contractingwith the public and
private sectors for the same services. This increases the financial burden o f the HIF and undermines fiscal
sustainability. It also contributes to problems such as moonlighting among public providers, reinforces
under-performance in public HCIs and enhances the tendency o f public providers to refer patients to
private clinics. Other critical areas o f concern for health policy formulation include the scope o f the
benefits package, policies on payment mechanisms for health providers, and policies to increase the
accountability and performance o f HCIs.

79.      Reform Strategy: The PDPL proposes to continue to support Government efforts to build-upon
and deepen the reforms initiated under PSMAC and PSMAL programs. Importantly, the PDPL i s
proposed to support the implementation o f the recently adopted HIF Action Plan. The broad areas o f
focus for the reforms include:

              0    Improving HIF governance and the health policy making environment. Under the
                   PDPL program HIF governance would be strengthened by improving accountability and
                   structure of the HIF Board. The PDPL program would include the adoption o f
                   amendments to the Health Insurance Law (PDPL 2) which aim to: (i)             reduce the number
                   o f HIF Board members from 13 to 7; (ii)        change to the criteria for selection o f Board
                   members; and (iii)    require a stricter conflict o f interest clause. Veto power would be
                   granted to the MOF and MOH representatives on the Board. Transparency o f the HIF
                   Board would be enhanced through the regular and timely publication o f the minutes o f
                   Board meetings. The PDPL program would also support improvements in the health
                   policy environment for health sector resource allocation decisions including: (i),         review

expected to contribute according to their ability to pay, andreceive basic health services according to need. Health
care institutions (HCIs) operate as autonomous State-owned enterprises, although the Ministryo f Health (MOH) i s
supporting privatization o fpharmacies, dental practices andprimary care. A by-law allowing the privatization of
these entities was passed in2004. While health insurance coverage i s fairly high, health outcomes such as life
expectancy at birthand infant and under-five mortality lag behind the SEE and EU25 averages.
 l1The hospital contractingprocess is not transparent and does not define the basis for formulation ofthe global
budget nor the rules and regulations that would governbudget execution. Also, reporting requirements remain
unclear. The contracting process contains far too many performance indicators and hospitals do not have the
necessarytechcal skills to deliver on these indicators. Finally, there was no valid baseline, making it difficult for
HIFto use these indicators to strengthen HCIaccountability to HIF.


                                                           19

                  and revise the positive lists o f drugs and the negative list in the context o f an evaluation
                  o f the Benefits Package (PDPL 2); and (ii)        analyze the relationship between medical
                  needs and service delivery capacity, in the form o f a Medical Map to improve the basis
                  for planning and resource allocationdecisions. The results from the medical map exercise
                  will provide the analytical basis for the distribution o f resources throughout the country,
                  for guiding investment decisions, HIF selective contracting with Health Care Institutions
                  (HCIs) and strengthening the licensingo fHCIs (PDPL 3).

             0    Improving budget planning and control, financial management and procurement in
                  HIF,MOH and HCIs: Under the PDPL programthe Government will implement the
                  first phase o f the HIF Action Plan to strengthen the financial management and intemal
                  controls within the HIF,including the development o f HIF and H C I staff competencies in
                  business planning and budget formulation, execution, monitoring and control. Hard
                  budget ceilings will be imposed on HCIs and measures will be undertaken to strengthen
                  performance orientation among HCIS.'' By 2007, 10 percent o f the budget o f HCIs will
                  be linked to performance.

80.      Expected Results: Over the course o f the PDPL program period, FYR Macedonia expects to
achieve the following:

             0    N o HIF arrears to five largest HCIs in2006

             0    No HIFdebts to suppliers in2006

             0    Access and quality o f care improved in Health Care Institutions (HCIs) implementing
                  budget ceiling (10 percent decrease in hospital admission rate, 15 percent decline in
                  average length o f hospital stay, 30 percent reduction in the number o f re-admissions for
                  the same condition during a 3 month period, reduction in the number o f referrals to
                  outpatient specialists and hospitals by lo%, improvedpatient satisfaction).

81.      Decentralization. The Govemment has made very substantial progress inenacting the legislative
framework for decentralization, as specified in the Ohrid agreement. In January 2002, a new Law on
Local Self-government was approved. In July, 2004, Parliament approved a new Law on Local
Government Finance. The most controversial step to date was the enactment o f the L a w on Territorial
Reorganization (August2004) which withstood a national referendum inNovember 2004. The basic legal
framework for decentralization i s now completed. Nevertheless, much remains to be done in terms o f
implementation. The Government's plan o f action i s specified in its Draft Plan of Activities for the
Transfer of the Competenciesfrom the State to theMunicipalities (April I,2005- October 31, 2005).

82.      Issues: Functions. The new L a w on Local Self-government spells out in considerable detail the
functions that municipalities may eventually undertake. The law reiterates the existing municipal
responsibilities for communal services (including drinking water supply, sewerage, and district heating),
regulation o f public transport, construction and maintenance o f local roads and maintenance o f parks and
sports facilities. Inthe social sphere, local responsibilities would expand. Under the law, municipalities
would be responsible for child care centers and homes for the elderly. They would be responsible for
establishing, financing, and administering primary and secondary schools (incooperation with the central
government) and organizing student transport and housing. Municipal responsibilities in the health sector
would be more limited. While they would be represented on the boards o f public health organizations,


  These actions will be supported by establishing and further strengthening o f the health management information
system(HMIS). HIFandHCI financial reports will be publishedon the HIFwebsite on a quarterly basis. The HCI
financial reports will also include information on the performance indicators.


                                                          20

they would have no direct role inmanaginghealth care facilities. They would however, be responsible for
certain aspects o f public (preventive) health.

83.       Finances. The new Law on Local Government Finance provides the fiamework for financing
these services. It maintains the three existing local taxes (property, inheritance, transfer o f real estate) and
allows municipalities to retain three percent o f the personal income taxes (PIT) collected within their
jurisdictions. It also establishes a revenue sharing system in which three percent o f Government VAT
collections will be distributed among municipalities on a formula basis. To finance municipalities'
increased role in the social sectors, the law provides for a system o f block grants. These will be
distributed according to formulas devised by the relevant Government line ministries and would be fixed
by Government ordinance after approval by the Ministry of Finance and a special-purpose monitoring
committee.

 84.      Phase I Reforms. The decentralization o f functions and finances i s designed to occur in two
phases. Under Phase 1, which began on July 1,2005, municipalitieswould assume responsibility for child
care and homes for the elderly. They would also substantially increase their role in primary education.
Municipalities will assume ownership o f school buildingsand will be responsible for their operation (e.g.,
heating and lighting) and maintenance. Mayors will acquire the power to appoint school directors
(nominated by school boards). Teachers will become municipal employee^.'^ To finance these additional
functions, the new revenue arrangements governing three percent o f the personal income tax and the VAT
would be put inplace.

85.       Before the first phase o f decentralization can go into effect, the Law on Local Government
Finance requires two major issues to be resolved. First, the Government must decide on a formula for
distributingthe VAT. The law specifies that halfwill be distributed on a per capita basis. The remainder
i s to be distributedon the basis o f a formula to be adopted by Government on the recommendation o f the
MOF. The MOF, in turn, i s to be advised by a nine-member commission, consisting o f five
representatives from the Association o f Municipalities (ZELS) and four representatives o f the
Government. The Committee i s only now reconstitutingitself after the end-Marchmunicipal elections.

86.       The second precondition for Phase 1 i s the implementation o f a plan (adopted in July 2005) to
resolve the status o f existing municipal arrears. The total stock o f municipal arrears i s now estimated at
MKD2.7 billion(1percent ofGDP).The planrequires the municipalitiesto fully repay the expropriation
debt and the outstanding principal on arrears to suppliers and contractors. The M o F will organize and
 facilitate negotiations between municipalities and their creditors, while avoiding any large scale
Government-financed debt relief that might encourage municipalities and                   creditors  to engage in
excessive debt-financing inthe future..

 87.      Phase 2 Reforms. In Phase 2 o f decentralization municipalities will obtain direct responsibility
for paying the teachers' salaries. The L a w on Local Government Financeprovides minimal guidance as to
how this will be accomplished. It specifies that costs will be financed through block grants, distributed
according to a formula devised by the Ministry o f Education and guarantees only that the amount will be
 `not less than the same amount used for the same purpose in that area inthe previous year.' This leaves
several unanswered questions. Should municipalities have the authority to determine the number o f
authorized teaching positions in each school? Should they have the authority to set teachers' salaries?
And ifso, should the Ministryo fEducationbe obligatedto finance the resultingwage biIl?l4



~~




 l3The Ministryof Education, however, will continue to determine the number o f authorized teaching positions in
eachmunicipality, set wages, and pay teachers' salaries.
 l4Some o fthese issues are already being addressed through recent legislation (including the Law on Primary and
Secondary Education) and current Ministryo f Education proposals. One suchproposal, for example, would allocate


                                                        21

88.     The Law on Local Govemment Finance also specifies that Phase 2 will be implementedon a case
by case basis. Any municipality that `possesses an adequate staff capacity for financial management,
shows good financial results for at least 24 months, and has no arrears to suppliers or any other creditors
exceeding those ordinary terms o f payments' will be eligible. Ineffect the law treats Phase 2 as a reward
for good financial performance rather than as an element o f a larger sectoral strategy. This raises the
prospect o f two parallel systems o f education in FYR Macedonia-- one financed directly by the
Govemment in municipalities not deemed ready for Phase 2; the other by the municipalities that qualify
for Phase 2.

89.     Reform Strategy: Under the PDPL the proposed areas to support decentralization are the
following:


              0   Transfer distribution formula. Under PDPL 1 the Govemment has adopted an
                  acceptable formula for distributingthe municipal share o f the VAT.

              0   Municipal debt workout. Under PDPL 1the Government has adopted a formal policy on
                  the resolution o f the arrears. Under PDPL 2 and 3 the Govemment will provide technical
                  assistance to individual municipalities in the renegotiation o f their debt and will closely
                  monitor the implementation o f the resolution o f arrears.

              0   Financing teachers' salaries. Under PDPL 2 or 3 and before responsibility for paying
                  teachers' salaries devolves to municipalities, the Govemment will adopt an action plan
                  specifying the required financing and management arrangements

              0   Decentralization Strategy. Under PDPL program, the Govemment will review the
                  overall strategy for decentralization and replaces the case-by-case approach for moving to
                  Phase 2 with an approach that applies sectoral reforms uniformly to all municipalities.

90.      Expected Results. Over the course o f the PDPL program period, FYR Macedonia expects to
achieve the following::

              0   Revenue structure o f local govemments i s stable and transparent.

              0   Municipal liabilities are reduced to sustainable levels.


                                VI.      OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS

91.      Some o f the policy measures that would be supported by the PDPL could potentially have
distributional impacts. Labor market reform, in conjunction with other improvements in the investment
climate, should help alleviate poverty inthe medium-term as employment in the formal sector improves.
As contract based labor participation increases and informal jobs are formalized, social protection
 coverage should also increase. On the other hand, insiders would have less job security and would receive
 lower redundancy payments. The second phase o f decentralization, expected to occur after the PDPL
program, poses risks for the equitable delivery o f social services if not well designed. Thus the PDPL
program includes measures to ensure that the design o f the second phase o f decentralization will

 funding for teachers' salaries on the basis of enrollment, while allowing local school directors to determine their
 own staffing requirements. Salary levels would continue to be set by the Ministryof Education and Science. Local
 school boards would set the education budgets of eachmunicipality, which would be approvedbythe municipal
 government.


                                                            22

safeguard equal access to quality education, an adequate supply o f qualified teachers and non-teaching
staff for ethnic minorities, and appropriate language o f instruction.

92.      Our knowledge o f poverty inFYR Macedoniahas recently been updated. The first ina series of
three programmatic Poverty Assessments in FYR Macedonia was carried out in 2005 covering the years
2002 and 2003. The programmatic approach to this Poverty Assessment will allow for a close monitoring
o f the impact o f PDPL supported reforms on poverty and may be supplemented by specific poverty and
social impact analyses. The team preparing the programmatic Poverty Assessments seeks to strengthen
poverty monitoring capacity in FYR Macedonia and provide analytical input to the development of the
next CAS. The draft finds that the modest rate of economic growth inthis period didnot lead to a decline
in poverty or even an improvement in general living standards for the bottom 80 percent of the
population. The strongest determinants of poverty in FYR Macedonia are household size and number o f
employed persons inhousehold. L o w education of head of household and living in secondary urban areas
are other important determinants of poverty. In2002 and 2003 about 22 percent o f the population inFYR
Macedonia lived on less than US$4.30 (measured at purchasing power parity). The "cost o f basic needs"
methodology also suggests the same 22 percent rate of poverty but indicates that about 5.5 percent o f the
population i s affected by extreme poverty. With a poverty gap o f about 7 percent, poverty seems to be
deep. Social transfers account for roughly half of Govemment spending and nearly half o f the population
receives some sort of social assistance. The alleviation o f poverty would require improvements in
targeting of social benefits, sustained and increased economic growth and job creation, as well as
sustained improvements inproductivity which could support sustained increases inreal wages.


FIDUCIARYASPECTS

93.      The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was finalized in March 2004 while
the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was finalized in June 2002. The Govemment has
addressed a number of major weaknesses identified in those fiduciary assessments o f the public financial
management and procurementframework and i s continuing to progress on others.

94.      The IMF conducted a safeguard's assessment of the NBRM in 2003 and found no systematic
vulnerabilities in the safeguards. The NBRM had completed all the principal recommendations o f the
2000 assessment, and safeguards had been considerably strengthened. Assessed risk declined in all areas
from the 2000 assessment. Vulnerabilities remained only in the financial reporting framework and
intemal controls.

95.      The CFAA reported that the Govemment had a well-functioning treasury operation, exercising
good control over the spending of budget entities. The NBRM efficiently administered the Treasury
Single Account (TSA) on behalf o f the Govemment and had implemented controls over foreign currency
accounts o f donors and others. The budget formulation process had been steadily improving including the
introduction o f a multi year framework. The S A 0 performed audits but the Government did not respond
thoroughly to the SAO's significant recommendations. At the time o f the initial CFAA mission and draft
report, there was no intemal audit function in the govemment, EBFs were outside o f the TSA and
generally not well monitored and the CFAA reportedmajor deficiencies infinancial controls inthe Health
Insurance Fund.

96.      Since then, the govemment has made good progress on a number o f these issues: the EBFs are
now using the TSA; the MOF records and controls commitments; a L a w on Internal Audit has been
passed that requires the establishment o f modem intemal audit units across all significant budget entities;
a number o f intemal audit units have already been established; basic and advanced auditor training i s
being provided through the MOF internal audit unit; and implementation o f intemal audit i s continuing.
Over time, these units will develop and will provide an independent source o f management information
on ministry budget executionand procurementactivities.


                                                    23

97.      The supreme audit institution, the SAO, has considerably increased its number o f staff to 76
(expected end o f 2005), although this i s still well below the target o f 125 staff. Their audit processes and
practices have been improved as part o f a two-year project financed through the Dutch Trust Fund
supporting the PSMAL. The SA0 i s conducting 10 performance audits for the first time in 2005. An
ongoing negotiation between S A 0 and the government i s concretely addressing the current back-log.
Legislative amendments to the S A 0 law were passed in2004. They provided: a formal follow-up process
by the S A 0 on all outstanding recommendations contained inthe S A 0 audit reports; the requirement for
the S A 0 to make public its annual audit reports and its audit o f the government's final accounts; requiring
the S A 0 to summarize inits annual report the key systemic weaknesses identified through its audits; and
enabling the S A 0 to conduct media information sessions as deemed appropriate. `All o f these
requirements have been implemented in 2005. The S A 0 was audited for the first time for 2004. The
further development o f the S A 0 has been secured through a three year twinning arrangement with the
Dutch Supreme Audit Institution starting in September 2005. Finally, S A 0 is working on a new
amendment to the law on State Audit to further enhance their independence, including financial
independence, ensuring access to all relevant information, as well the implementation o f a risk based
approach inthe planning o f entities to be audited. This will decrease the number of compulsory audits and
will focus on those entities o f greatest risk.

98.      Over the course o f the PSMAL program all extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) were brought into the
TSA and their budgets are now being tabled in Parliament together with the government's budget
proposal. An internal control study o f the HIF was conducted in2004 and an action plan to implement its
recommendations for improvement was approved by the government in M a y 2005. Implementation i s
now underway as part o f the PDPL process.

99.      Based on the law on internal audit approved inSeptember 2004 intemal audit units are now being
established in all budget entities with expenditures exceeding 500 million Denars. To date, 15 entities
now have such units; an additional 17 entities and 42 municipalities will establish internal audit units this
year, Inalmost all cases, these are very small units o f 1-2 staff that will have to grow over the next 2-3
years to reach a critical mass o f at least 6 auditors. The current staffing freeze will make this a difficult
challenge. The smaller budget entities will be covered by the internal audit unit in MOF. An intensive
learning and certification program has been undertaken, supported by the PSMAL. A recently launched
12 month project financed by EAR will assist with the ambitious roll-out o f the internal audit and
enhancing the use o f international standards inthe audit work, but usinga practical approach. EARi s also
assisting with the improvement o f the internal financial control through the establishment o f a Public
InternalFinancial Control (PIFC) framework inFYRMacedonia.

100.     Several improvements have taken place o f the procurement since the CPAR. A new Law on
Public Procurement in line with international standards and best practices was enacted inMarch 2004 as
part o f the PSMAL program. Government has adopted a comprehensive implementing regulation,
promulgated standard procurement documents and forms o f contract, and established a state
administrative body for public procurement within the Ministry o f Finance made fully operational with
staff, resources and terms o f reference. The Public Procurement Bureau i s working with an EC financed
consultant on MOF website for the Register of Performed Public Procurement. All these PSMAL second
tranche conditions were met inM a y 2005.




                                                       24

                              End of 2003              Endof 2004            Expectedend of
                                                                                    2005

S A 0 staffing                               59                       68                       76

Measures undertaken                 13%in2002               18%in2003                22% in2004
based      on     S A 0
recommendations

Intemal    audit   staff                     11                       29                        58
across govemment


Number o f institutions                        2                       15      74 (some to start in
with internalaudit                                                                         2006)
                        I                        I                        I




DISBURSEMENTANDAUDITING

102.     The proposed Loan will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for development policy
loans. The untied budget support will be disbursed in compliance with the agreed prior actions and will
not be tied to specific purchases. No procurement requirements will be needed. Upon approval o f the
Loan and notification by the Bank o f Loan effectiveness, the Government will submit a withdrawal
application. At the request o f the Government, the Bank will disburse the Loan, less the amount o f the
front-end fee amounting to 0.25% o f the Loan amount, and the net proceeds o fthe Loan will be deposited
inthe Treasury's Euro account inthe NBRM, this account being available for budget financing. During
negotiations it was decided that the net Loan proceeds would not be converted into local currency;
however, for accounting and budgeting purposes, the Borrower will also record the net proceeds o f the
Loan in local currency following established procedures The Borrower shall ensure that upon deposit o f
the net proceeds o f the Loan into said account, an equivalent amount will be credited in the Borrower's
budget management system, ina manner acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower will report to the Bank on
the amounts deposited inthe foreign currency account and credited to the budget management system. If,
after the proceeds are deposited in the NBRM account, the proceeds o f the Loan are used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to promptly, upon notice
from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount o f said payment to the Bank.Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. The administration o f the Loan will be the responsibility
o f the MOF.

103.    The MOF will maintain accounts and records, showing that disbursements were in accordance
with provision o f the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a form
acceptable to the Bank.

104.    Considering the Bank's knowledge o f the public finance management systems, the ongoing
improvements o f these systems and consideringthe assessment o f the NBRMmade by IMF, no audit will
be necessary o f the deposit account. The auditors issued unqualified opinions on the Statement o f Sources
and Uses o f Funds and Statement of Expenditures Withdrawal Schedule for previous adjustment lending.




                                                     25

ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

105.     The proposed PDPL will not support specific measures which are likely to have an effect on the
environment, forests or other natural resources o f FYR Macedonia and no environmental impact
assessment will be required for this operation.


LESSONSLEARNEDFROMPRIOROPERATIONS

106.     The preparation o f the proposed PDPL has benefited from important lessons learned from
previous policy based lending. This i s especially true o f the PSMAL (see paragraph 19 above) which was
under implementation during the initial preparation o f PDPL 1. One key lesson from the PSMAL (as
well as the PSMAC) i s that complex institutional changes involve an iterative process o f "learning while
doing" and take time to gain momentum. Continued follow through i s essential to ensure results. Inthis
regard, a series o f single-tranche operations designed within a multi-year program i s likely to be more
appropriate than a traditional multi-tranche operation due to the flexibility inherent in this new
instrument. With follow through inmind, the proposed PDPLprogram inpart reflects a continuation o f a
number o f institutional reforms initiated under PSMAL. The civil service reforms as outlined in the
PDPL policy matrix most directly incorporate this iterative nature o f institutional reform. The PDPL
team has also worked closely with several government bodies in establishing institutional arrangements
and capacities to monitor a rich array o f indicators designed to measure the impact o f the public
expenditure and human resource management reforms begun under the PSMAL supported program. The
evaluation o f these regular indicators will help determine to what extent and where alterations o f the
reformprogram would be advisable. Reforms inthe health sector proposedto be supported by the PDPLs
grew directly out o f a comprehensive extemal audit and action plan which were key features o f the
PSMAL program. Finally, as important as it i s to continue the public sector reforms launched under
PSMAL and PSMAC, it is also clear that reforms to improve the investment climate are necessary to
foster higher levels of growth and productivity inFYRMacedonia.

107.     Another lesson learned i s that reforms supported by policy based lending tend to be more
effectively implemented when supported by critical technical assistance and investment projects
supported by the Bank and other donors. The PDPL program i s thus being supported not only by the
PDPL itself but also by the Bank's health, education, cadastre, and business environment projects. The
proposed judicial reform project is also being designed to assist in the implementation o f the judicial
reform component of the PDPL program. Technical assistance provided by the EUDelegation, EAR, the
Dutch, UK-DFID,and USAID also supports a number o freforms inthe PDPLprogram.

MONITORINGAND EVALUATION

108.     The Government recognizes the importance of monitoring and evaluation in ensuring the
successful implementation o f the PDPL supported program. The reform program sets out qualitative and
quantitative benchmarks and targets embedded inthe PDPL Policy Matrix. Some o f these indicators are
produced in regular surveys conducted by the Bank and other international organizations, while other
indicators are regularly produced by the Government. The Government recognizes that the proposed
PDPL 2 and PDPL 3 are subject to the approval o f the Bank's Board o f Executive Directors and that
adequate progress in reform implementation would be required. The Bank and the Government, in
consultation with other stakeholders, civil society, and international donors, will fully utilize the
flexibility inherent in the PDPL instrument to determine whether or not and where adjustments might be
made to the indicative policy actions stipulated in the Policy Matrix during the preparation o f the
proposed PDPL 2 and PDPL 3, to ensure effective implementation without compromising program
outcomes.




                                                     26

RISKS AND R I S KMITIGATION

109.     Implementation risks are fairly substantial. The institutional changes that the PDPL program
seeks to overcome are a medium-term endeavor. The current capacity o f some public sector institutions to
implement an ambitious reform agenda, while muchimproved over the past few years, remains relatively
weak. The risk will be mitigated through the continued use o f ample donor-financed technical assistance
as well as support from ongoing and proposed Bank projects in health, social protection, judiciary, and
business environment.

110.     There are also some political risks. While the threat o f renewed ethnic violence i s modest, the
continueduncertainty over the final status o f neighboring K o s ~ v oi's~pending. Also, the Government has
now entered the second half o f its four year mandate. The ambitious reform agenda that the PDPL
proposes to support could test the Governments commitment to reform as the elections scheduled in
Autumn 2006 approach. The domestic political risks are mitigated by the broad consensus across the
political and ethnic spectrum for EU membership. The continued implementation o f both economic
reforms and o f the Ohrid agreement are widely recognized as essential steps on the path to EU
membership.

111,     FYRMacedonia also faces macroeconomic risks. While FYRMacedoniahas an impressive track
record o f macroeconomic stability and prudent macroeconomic policies which have now been bolstered
by a 3 year IMF Stand-By Arrangement, the projected reduction in external current account imbalances
would require that investment be increasingly financed by domestic savings. The ratio o f investment to
GDP could itself increase in the medium-term as the investment climate improves, with the
implementationo f PDPLsupported reforms. This risk of a rising current account deficit would be reduced
to the extent that domestic savings continue to recover to their pre-2001 level. The risk would also be
mitigated to the extent that reforms would stimulate growth in productivity over time. This risk bears
careful monitoring inconjunction with the IMFover the PDPLprogramperiod.




l5Kosovo is presently under UnitedNations' (UN) interim administration (UNMIK),pursuant to UNSecurity Council
Resolution 1244 (1999)o fJune 10, 1999,


                                                          27


                                                                                  Annex 1
                                                                                   1 o f 6




 REPUBLICOFMACEDONIA
  MINISTRY OF FINANCE




To:
Mr. PaulD.Wolfowitz
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818HStreet, N.W.
Washington DC, 20433

                                                                                   September 20,2005


                           RE:     LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY


Dear Mr.Wolfowitz:

1. I am writing to request, on behalf o f the Government of the Republic o f Macedonia, a
Programmatic Development Policy Loan (PDPL) of 24,400,000 (US$30 million equivalent) to
support our economic reform program. This Letter of Development Policy sets out the key actions that
the Government has undertaken and i s committed to undertake over the medium-term to enhance
economic growth in Macedonia and make progress towards our goal o fEU accession. Attached to this
Letter i s also a Policy Matrix that summarizes the contents o f this Letter.

2. The overarching objective of our reform program is to promote economic growth andjob creation
inMacedonia through improving: (i) investment climate, and (ii)governance and efficiency of the
                                       the
public sector. Iwill briefly describe our reformplans inboth o fthese areas.

Improving Investment Climate:

3. Despite a number of reforms camed out over the past decade, including trade liberalization,
financial sector reform and privatization, and enterprise restructuring and privatization, Macedonia's
investment climate has not yet created an enabling environment for rapidgrowth. The reform strategy
we hope the PDPL would support includes key reforms inthe judiciary, labor markets, financial sector
and business environment.

4.       Judicial Reform: We have demonstrated our commitment to a comprehensive reform in this
area with the adoption of the Strategy on the Reform of the Judicial Sector (Refom Strategy) in
December 2004. We consider the development, adoption, initial implementation o f this Reform
Strategy as critical first steps in the process of modemizing Macedonia's judicial institutions. An
important subset o f our Reform Strategy seeks to ensure the efficient, effective and fair enforcement o f
creditor, contract and property rights. We recognize that such rights are key ingredients ina business




                                                      28

                                                                                  Annex 1
                                                                                  2 o f 6

climate that promotes investment and growth. One important component o f the Reform Strategy aims
to reduce the backlog and delays in court proceedings. We are following transparent and consultative
legislative and regulatory drafting procedures to develop criticalpieces o f legislation and regulation. A
new Law on Civil Procedure (Law on Litigation) was enacted by the Parliament. We have established
working groups which will draft the Law on Courts and the ]Law on Misdemeanors which Parliament
will enact in2006. Thereafter, we will ensure the effective implementation o f each of these important
laws to increase the independence o f the judiciary and the pace and efficiency of the court system. We
have recently raised the salary o fjudges and will devise an improved incentive system for thejudiciary
by 2007, consistent with the principles, rules and procedures for settingpublic sector salaries embodied
inthe legal framework governingsuch salaries referredto inparagraph 13 below.

5.      The Parliament has enacted a new Law on Enforcement and will focus on the effective
implementation o f this law through the establishment o f an enforcement agent service. We wilI also
improve the supervisory and oversight capacity in the Ministry of Justice, conduct a public awareness
campaign and user surveys which will allow us to follow up with an action plan for continued
improvements in the enforcement of court judgments.

6.      We are now drafting a new Bankruptcy Law which was submitted to Parliament for first
reading inJuly 2005. We expect the Law to be enacted later in 2005. We will follow through with the
implementation o f this law to ensure the institutional development o fthe bankruptcy trustee profession.

7.      We planto adopt constitutional amendments in late 2005 or early 2006. Such amendments will,
inter alia, remove the requirement o f a judicial order for administrative sanctions. The Parliament
recently enacted a modem General Administrative Procedure Law.               Following the constitutional
changes the Parliament will enact a new Law on Administrative Disputes and we may enact
amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, ifneeded. We will ensure the effective
implementation o f these laws by adopting measures to assist our various supervisory andadministrative
bodies with the fair exercise o f administrative sanction responsibility.

8.      Finally, we are currently staffing key bodies such as the Court Administrative Office (AO), in
agreement with the Judiciary, to monitor implementation o f the Reform Strategy. Capacity will be
established in the A0 in order to provide statistical and analytical reports necessary for improved court
administration and management. The Judicial Reform Council will continue to monitor and report on
progress in the implementationo fthe Reform Strategy.

9.      Labor Market Reform: Parliament has enacted a new Labor Law inJuly 2005. Given the high
unemployment rate and large informal sector, we consider this reform as one o f the most critical in
2005. This law balances the need to protect workers' rights with the need to increase flexibility in the
labor market.      The law has: (i)promoted more diversified employment contracts, by limiting
restrictions on the use o f fixed-term, temporary and part-time employment contracts while allowing for
a provision whereby the cumulative duration o ffixed-term contracts cannot exceed 4 years; (ii)      relaxed
pre-conditions for valid dismissal and limit severance pay to a maximum o f 6 individual monthly
salaries; (iii)increased in the scope for overtime work by increasing the yearly limit on overtime to 190
hours annually, with lower levels for minors; (iv) ensured that collective bargaining i s done on a
voluntary basis so that collective agreements are binding only to parties who are signatories to such
agreements, in line with ILO Convention N o 144 and Recommendations No 113 and 152 on tripartite
consultations; and (v) established methods for labor dispute resolution as an alternatives to strikes and
litigation to limit the social and economic costs o f industrial disputes. We will play an active role in




                                                        29

                                                                                 Annex 1
                                                                                 3 o f 6

encouraging the social partners to negotiate and sign collective agreements in line with the new Law.
We will also establish improvedlabor dispute resolution mechanisms inearly 2006.

10.     Banking Sector Regulation and Supervision: We are continuing reforms in the financial
sector. We are committed to improving the legal framework for banking and bank supervision as well
as the application of the framework and the practice therein. To this end, in cooperation with the
World Bank, we launched a banking sector governance study in May 2005 and are preparing an
evaluation o f the current banking supervisory process. Thereafter, the National Bank o f the Republic
o f Macedonia (NBRM) will prepare and adopt a supervisory development plan (SDP) by the end o f
2005. The SDP will be implemented over the next few years and will help the NBRMgradually move
towards a more risk-based supervisory approach and address bank governance weaknesses. We are
also committed to further strengthen the legal framework for the banking sector, including fit and
proper criteria for banks. In this regard, we intend to enact new banking legislation by mid-July 2006.
In concert with these efforts, in 2006, the NBRM will also conduct a review o f its procedures for
assessing banks' compliance with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing requirements
with the view o f approving strengthened fit and proper screening procedures in compliance with the
new banking legislation.

11.     Improving the BusinessEnvironment: With the cooperationof the World Bank we launched a
Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) on corporate governance inMay 2005. We
will work with the Bank in ensuring that key recommendations from this assessment are implemented
over the next few years. We are aware that these recommendations may require some amendments to
existing legislation such as the Company Law or the Securities Law. We are committed to the adoption
o f a quality-oriented approach to regulatory reforms to improving the quality of existing and new
regulations which affect the business sector. We will enact legislation to establish `an institutional
framework and processes for implementation o f regulatory reforms, with a permanent body in the
General Secretariat. This body will be responsible for assuring the quality o f existing and new
regulations through the adoption o f methodologies such as the guillotine and the regulatory impact
assessment. Through this legislative framework, we will also institutionalize mandatory consultation
mechanisms with the business community. We will then ensure effective implementation of this legal
and institutional framework by fully staffing the new permanent body in the General Secretariat which
will use the new methodologies to streamline a number o f regulatory regimes. In order to further
improve business environment, we will ensure a better public access to business sector-related
regulations. We also recognize that the process o f registering new business needs to be faster and less
burdensome. In this regard, we have decided to adopt an administrative business registration system
with no court involvement. To this end, we have established a working group to draft a new business
registration law and devise a "one-stop-shop" system for business registration under the Central
Registry. We will adopt the necessary legislation, including amendments to relevant laws and
accompanyng implementation regulations, by the end o f 2005. Finally, a new Audit Law was enacted
by the Parliament. Over the next few years we will endeavor to fully implement this legislation and
ensurethat an Institute of Certified Auditors as well as an oversight council will be established.

Strengthen PublicSector Governance:

12.     We recognize that good public sector governance i s a pre-requisite for private sector growth.
We have implemented many reforms in recent years in public administration and health care which
were supported by the Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) and the Public Sector
Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL). We improved our capacity to make tough policy choices.
We have implemented a series o f budget formulation process improvements. A medium term fiscal




                                                      30

                                                                                   Annex 1
                                                                                   4 o f 6

strategy for 2005-2007 was approved by the Government in 2004 and enrolling 2006-2008 i s adopted
by the Govemment. Hard budget ceilings for each of the first line budget entities were approved by the
Govemment in 2004 and provided to the entities as part o f their budget instructions. These were
ultimately reflected in the 2005 Budget approved by Parliament. We have also implemented a number
of reforms in the Health Sector and have launched a decentralization process. Our reform efforts in
these areas continue as outlinedbelow.

13.     Public Administration Reform        We are developing institutional arrangements and capacities
designed to ensure more effective strategic prioritization, consistent with the Methodology for Strategic
Planningissuedby the Govemment in 2003, under guidelines issued by the Govemment inMay of this
year. Our strategic prioritization and planning process reform will be integrated into the annual budget
preparation process. We are piloting this process this year in two ministries and will deepen and
expand the process in subsequent years. We have also established a mechanism for monitoring and
publicizing systematic evidence on intermediate impacts o f civil service and public expenditure
management reforms. In human resource management we are also continuing a number o f reforms
supported by PSMAL. We have strengthened the legal framework establishing a mechanism for
controlling compliance with both the recruitment and selection requirements and the position
classification requirements, by including this provision in the New Organic Budget Law, which was
enacted in July 2005. We have submitted to Parliament a limited number o f specific amendments to
the Civil Service Law, designed to improve our capacities to attract, retain and motivate qualified civil
servants. The Civil Service Agency will undertake a consultative review o f experience implementing
the Civil Service Law and its subsidiary legislation, and will develop and begin to implement a
strategic plan for the Agency, consistent with the Government's Strategic Planning guidelines, which
addresses the challenges identified by that review. We will make more fundamental revisions in the
Civil Service Law, as required, based on that review. We will continue the decompression o f civil
service salaries as agreed under the PSMAL program.             We will also adjust the legal framework
goveming the setting o f public sector salaries, with the aim o f establishing a consistent set of
principles, rules and procedures for setting public sector salaries, includingassignment o f authority and
responsibilities for the various roles required for such salary setting. Inso doing, that legal framework
will enable the setting of salary structures for well defined subsets of the public administration (e.g.,
health care professionals, judges, teachers, etc.) via laws or sub-legal instruments, such as collective
bargainingagreements or decrees issued by Govemment; albeit subject to clearly specified procedural
constraints designed to ensure compliance with the underlying principles for salary setting. Those
principles include: (i) fiscal sustainability o f the overall public sector wage bill, (ii)
                                                                                         consistency inthe
competitiveness o f total remuneration across types o f human capital required by Macedonia's public
administration, and (iii)  transparency and faimess in the setting o f public sector remuneration, both the
overall structure and composition o f remuneration within the public administration, as well as the
remuneration o f individual public servants.         We will conduct a pilot public/private sector salary
survey, which will then be incorporated into the State Statistical Office's annual work program. This
survey will help inform the design o f salary structures within the public administration, under the
principles, procedures and rules established by the legal framework governing public sector
remuneration.

14,     Health Reform: We are undertaking a number o f measures to strengthen the transparency,
govemance and management o f the Health Insurance Fund. We have adopted and submitted to
Parliament amendments to the Health Insurance Law (HIL)to improve the accountability and structure
o fthe HIF Board. We have proposed to Parliament that the number o f HIFBoard members be reduced
from 13 to 7; the criteria for selection o f Board members be changed; and a stricter conflict o f interest
clause be applied. Veto power would be granted to the Ministry o f Finance and Ministry o f Health




                                                         31

                                                                                 Annex 1
                                                                                 5 o f 6

representatives on the Board. The HIF Board will regularly publish the minutes o f Board meetings,
includingon the results of voting. We will also pass regulations to implement the amendments in the
HIL(contracting, sick leave and HIFBoard). We are also endeavoring to strengthenthe healthpolicies
that form the basis for health sector resource allocation decisions. Inthe context o f evaluation of the
Benefits Package, we will review and revise the positive lists o f drugs and the negative list. To
improve the basis for planning and resource allocation decisions, we will analyze the relationship
between medical needs and service delivery capacity, in the form o f a Medical Map. The results from
the medical map exercise will provide the analytical basis for the distribution o f resources throughout
the country, for guiding investment decisions, HIF selective contracting with Health Care Institutions
(HCIs) and strengthening the licensing o fHCIs.

15.     We will implement the first phase of the HIF Action Plan (supported by the PSMAL) to
strengthen the financial management and internal controls within the HIF including the staffing of a
senior financial executive to implement the HIFAction Plan, the development o f HIE:and Health Care
Institutions (HCI) staff competencies in budget formulation, execution, monitoring and control. Hard
budget ceilings will be imposed on HCIs and measures will be undertaken to strengthen performance
orientation among HCIs. By 2007, 10percent o f the budget of HCIs will be linked to performance and
all HCIs will have contracts based on hard budget ceilings and key performance indicators. We will
conduct international competitive bidding in accordance with the HIF Action Plan for selected
categories o f outpatient drugs on the positive lists, and for all drugs on the hospital list. We will also
introduce an internal reference price mechanism in 2006 for selected outpatient drugs on the positive
lists. In2007, we will adopt a reference price mechanismfor all drugs on the positive lists.

16..    Decentralization:    We are now beginning the functional and fiscal components o f our
decentralization program. This will occur intwo phases. Under Phase 1, which began on July 1,2005,
municipalities substantially increased their role in education, culture, social protection (landergartens
and homes for elderly) and fire-protection. Municipalities assumed ownership o f the buildingsinwhich
these functions are performed, and responsibility for their operation. Salaries, however, continue to be
paid directly to schools, cultural institutions, kindergartens, homes for elderly and fire departments by
the line ministries until Phase 2. To finance the operating costs o f schools, cultural institutions,
kindergartens and homes for elderly the line ministries will transfer an amount no less than the amount
it spent on these costs in eachjurisdiction in2004 (adjusted for seasonal variations ineducation).

17.      Other functions, including urban planning, financial management, and revenue collection were
also decentralized effective July 1, 2005. To finance these functions and to provide additional
discretionary resources to the municipalities, Parliament has enacted a Municipal Finance Law which
requires the Government to transfer three percent o f the revenues from the personal income tax and the
value added tax (VAT) to the municipalities. The municipal share o f the personal income tax is now
distributed on the basis of origin (with certain adjustments for the City of Skopje.) The VAT is now
distributed on the basis o f a recently adopted formula. We will establish a stable formula for
distributingVAT by mid-2006.

 18.     To address the problem of municipal arrears, the Ministry i s organizing and will facilitate
negotiations between municipalities and their creditors, while avoiding any large scale Government-
financed debt relief that might encourage municipalities and creditors to engage in excessive debt-
financing in the future.

 19.     Under Phase 2, municipalities will become directly responsibility for paying salaries for
employees in schools, cultural institutions, kindergartens, fire-protection departments and homes for




                                                        32

                                                                              Annex 1
                                                                               6 of 6

the elderly. Prior to implementing Phase 2, we will devise an acceptable formula for financing these
costs, We will also review the overall strategy for functional decentralization in Phase 2 prior to its
implementation.


Conclusion:

20.     We are aware that our ambitious goals will require a concerted effort. At the same time we are
confident that this letter outlines a coherent and comprehensive program o f reforms and i s focused on
critical policy priorities. We are convinced that these reforms are essential to achieving sustained
growth. In closing, we would like to reiterate that the continued support o f the World Bank and the
international community will be essential for achieving these ambitious goals. Itrust that this request
for World Bank support for the implementation o f this reform program will receive your endorsement.

Yours sincerely,




                                                                   Nikola Popovski, MA




                                                     33

-
4


     h    8
          5
 a
 w    m  cl




    a w

:  3fi
     .e

a
8

           .
           r)




      a




1
Y




.&>8


m
m



  \d      8
 0
 0hl
  .a
   m
   c
  .P
 3 a
   a
  sa

  n
  -8
  B3               4
  s8

s       a2  Y
        0
        9  3s 4
8
4
k
0



                                                                                                                                           Annex 3
                                                                                                                                             1of2
                            Macedonia, FYR at a glance                                                                              9/22f05

                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                      Europe 8    Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                     Macedonia.       Central    middle-
                                                                 FYR      Asia    Income     Developmentdiamond'
2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                                    2.1     472       2,430
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             2,390     3,290      1,580                   Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                   4.9    1,553      3,847
Average annual growth, 199844                                                                                      T
Population(%)                                                     0.4     -0.1        1.o
Laborforce (%)                                                   -1.6     0.5         0.7                                           Gross
                                                                                                                                   primary
Moot recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                        capita                              enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverfy line)                  22
Urbanpopulation(% offotalpopulation)                              60       84         49
Life expectancy at birth(years)                                   74       68         70                           I
Infantmortality(per 7,000 live births)                            11       29         33
Chiidmalnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                             6                  11         Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                 96       91         81                                                   I
Literacy(% ofpopulation age 75+)                                  96       97         90
Gross primaryenrollment (% of schod-age population)               99      101        114        -Macedonia,         FYR
   Male                                                           98      103        115         -      Lower-middle-incomegrow
   Female                                                         99      101         113

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1984          1994     2003       2004      Economicratios.
GDP (US$billions)                                                 3.4      4.7        5.4
Gross capitalformatiotVGDP                                       15.5     19.8       21.6
Exportsof goods and sewicedGDP                                  38.2      37.6       40.1                        Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                        5.3      3.0        1.o
Gross national savingdGDP                                         7.5     18.2       15.1                          T


Current account balance/GDP                                      -7.8     -3.2       -7.7
Interestpayments/GDP                                              1.o      1.I 1.1
Total debvGDP                                                    32.6     40.2       37.5
Total debt serviceiexports                                       12.2     12.8       11.8
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                  25.1       24.6
Presentvalue of debvexports                                               61.7       56.6
                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                      1984-94 199444            2003     2004    200448
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                         ..     1.7            2.8      2.9        4.2        -Macedonia,          FYR
GDP per capita                                     1.1            2.3      2.2        3.8        -Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services               ..     3.6            2.2     11.7        7.3


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)                                        1984          I994     2003       2004

Agriculture                                                      13.3     13.7       13.2
lndustly                                                        30.4      30.4       27.8
 Manufacturing                                                  23.7      18.5       15.6
Services                                              ........  56.3      55.9       58.9
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                           75.7      76.5       79.1
General gov't final consumption expenditure           ....       19.0     20.5       19.9
Imports of goods and services                         ..        48.4      54.4       60.6


                                               1984-94 1994-04           2003       2004
(average annualgrowth)                                                                       Growthof exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                           ........   -0.2      4.8        4.4    30
Industry                                                          2.2      6.5       -0.1    20
 Manufacturing                                                    0.4      0.5       -3.7    10
Services                                                          2.0      0.8        4.5    0

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                            2.4      0.6        1.4   -lo
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure            ....        2.8     -6.0        1.5   -20
Gross capital formation                                           2.9     -0.4       f3.8
Importsof goods and sewices                           ....       5.2      -5.2       10.6              -Exports          +Imports
                                                                                            2




Note: 2004 data arepreliminary estimates.
 The diamonds showfour key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its incomegroup average. If data are missing, the diamondwill
  be incomplete.




                                                                                45

                                                                                                                             Annex 3
                                                                                                                              2 o f 2

                                                                                                    Macedonia,FYR
                                                                        ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                I
                                            1984  1994     2003   2004
Domestic prices                                                              lnflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                  "T
Consumer prices                                  121.8       1.2   -0.4
implicitGDP deflator                             151.9       1.o      1.5
Governmentffnance
(% of GDP, includes curent grants)
Current revenue                                   43.1     37.8   36.4
Current budget balance                             0.6       3.8     3.6
Overall surplus/deficit                           -2.7      -0.1     0.7               -GDP      deflator -CPI              I
TRADE                                                                                                                       I
                                            1984  1994     2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                               Exportand import levels (US0 mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              1,086     1,367  1,673
  Raw materials                                     77       40        44
  Food                                             110       92     126
  Manufactures                                     835     1,023  1,297
Total imports (cif)                              1,484     2,306  2,903
  Food                                             282      271     337
  Fueland energy                                   161      323     377
  Capital goods                                                                                                          "I
                                                   292      434     546
Export price index (2000=100)                      133       113    123                88  98   W      01    02    03

Importpriceindex (2000=100)                        114       113    126                     Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                          116       100       96

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            1984  1994     2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                               Current account baianceto GDP     6
Exports of goods and services                    1.258     1,689  2,080       0
importsof goods and services                     1,598     2,548  3,247       1
Resourcebalance                                   -340     -858  -1,166       2
                                                                              3
Net income                                         -47       -32     -39      4
Net currenttransfers                               124       741    791       5
                                                                              4
Current account balance                           -263     -149   -415        7

Financingitems(net)                               305       200     434       8

Changes in net reserves                            -42       -51     -19      9
                                                                              10
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)               172      903     902
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                  43.3     54.3    49.4

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1984  1994     2003   2004               ~~



(US$millions)                                                                Composltlon of 2004 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed               1,104     1.876  2,007
  iBRD                                              93       175    218
  IDA                                               42       356    387     I
Total debt service                                 156       243    275
  IBRD                                             136        15        22
  IDA                                                0         2         3
Composition of net resource flows
  Officialgrants                              0     74       104        70
  Official creditors                               -18        56        38
  Privatecreditors                                 -15        -5         2
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)      0     24        96    156
  Portfolioequity (net inflows)               0      0         3        15
Wodd Bank program
  Commitments                                       80        20        55   ~A-IBRD                           F- Private
                                                                                                               E Bilateral
                                                                                                                 -
  Disbursements                                    80         59        35    6 IDA
                                                                                -         D Other multilateral
                                                                                            -
  Principal repayments                             104         8        15    C-IMF                            G Short-term
                                                                                                                 -
  Netflows                                         -24        51        20
  Interestpayments                                  32         9         10
  Nettransfers                                     -56        42         10

  ~                                                       ~          ~~

DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                  9/22/05




                                                                46

                                                                                                                    Annex 4

                                             Macedonia, FYR Social Indicators

                                                                 Latest single year          Same region/lncomegroup


                                                                                                Europe(I       Lower-
                                                                                                  Central      mIddIe.
                                                         197540   198540          1998.04           &la        Income

POPULATION
Total population.mid-year(millions)                         1.9       1.9             2.1           472.1      2,430.3
  Gmwih rate (% annual averagefor period)                   1.5      -0.7             0.4            -0.1          1.o
Urban population(Xof population)                           53.5      57.8           59.6             63.6         48.6
Total fertilityrate(birthsperwoman)                         2.6       2.1             1.8             1.6          2.1

POVERTY
(% ofpopulation)
Nationalheadcountindex                                                               21.7
  Urban headcountIndex
  Rural headcountindex                                                               22.3
INCOME
GNI per capita(US$)                                                                 2,390           3,290        1,580
Consumer priceindex(1995=100)                                           0             123
Foodpriceindex(1995=100)
INCOMElCONSUMPTlONDISTRIBUTION
ShareofIncomeor consumption
Gini index                                                                            0.4
Lowestquintile(96 of incomeor consumption)                                            6.0
Highestquintile(OA of incomeor consumption)                                          36.7
SOCIALINDICATORS
Publicexpenditure
  Health(%ofGDP)                                                                      5.7             4.2           2.5
  Education(%of GNI)                                                                                  4.4           3.5
  Social security and welfare(% of GDP)
Net primaryschoolenrollmentrate
(% of age group)
  Total                                                                 94             92              89
      Male                                                              95             92              89
      Female                                                            94             93              88

Accessto an improvedwater source
(% ofpopulation)
  Total                                                                                                91            81
      Urban                                                                                            98            93
      Rural                                                                                            80            70

Immunizatlonrate
(% of childrenages f2-23 months)
   Measles                                                                             96              92            86
   OPT                                                                                 96              90            88
Childmalnulrition(% under 5 years)                                                      6                            11

Lifeexpectancyat birth
 Wears)
   Total                                                                72             74               68           70
      Male                                                              70             71               64           68
      Female                                                            74             76               73           72

 Mortallty
   Infant(per 1,000livebirths)                               53         32             11               29           33
   Under5(per 1.oOa)                                         69         33             11               36           42
   Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1 . W population)                        - - -        147             160             317           192
      Female (per 1.000population)                                    100              89              136          123
   Maternal(per 100,000live birlhs)                                                    23               61          ill
 Births attendedby skilledhealthstaff(%)                                               98                            86
                                                                                                                 0812205




                                                                 47

                                                                                                                       Annex 5

                                   Macedonia, FYR K e y Economic Indicators
                                                       -                                                                 1of2



                                                          Actual              Estimate             Projected
                 Indicator                      2001   2002     2003    2004   2005      2006    2007     2008    2009
National accounts(as YOof GDP)
Gross domestic product'                            100    100      100     100     100      100     100      100     100
 Agriculture                                       12       12       14     13      11       10      10        9        9
 Industry                                          32       30       30     28      35       34      34       33      33
 Services                                          56       57       56     59      54       55      56       57      58
Total Consumption                                  95     100        97    99       98       97      95       93      93
Grossdomestic fixed investment                     15       17       17     18      18       19      19       20      20
 Govemment investment                                3       4        4      3       5        4       4        3        3
 Private investment                                11       13       13     15      14  '    15      16       16      17

~xports(GNFS)~                                     43       38       38    40       44       45      46       46      46
Imports (GNFS)                                     57       58       54    61       64       63      63       62      62
Gross domestic savings                               5       0        3      1       2        3       5        7        7
Grossnational savingsC                             14       13       18     15      15       16      17       18      18
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                           3437    3791     4666    5355    5609    5937    6329      6756   7255
(US$millionat currentprices)
GNIper capita (US$,Atlas method)                 1690    1710     1970   2390     2660    2830,   2980      3160
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1995 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices          -4.5     0.9      2.8    2.9      3.7     4.0     4.5      4.5      5.0
 Gross Domestic Income                            -4.1     1.0      2.1    0.7      2.1     4.0     4.5      4.5      5.2
Realannual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1995prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices          -4.9     0.7      2.3    2.2      3.8     3.5     4.0      4.0      4.5
 Total consumption                                -3.8     5.8     -1.3    0.8      0.9      1.9    2.3      2.4      4.2
 Private consumption                             -10.9    10.0      0.1    0.8     -0.8     4.5     2.9      2.2      4.4
Balanceof Payments(US%millions)
,~xports(GNFS)~                                  1400    1365     1689   2080     2471     2665    2881     3110    3333
   Merchandise FOB                               1155    1112     1363    1672    2000     2146    2314     2500    2681
 Imports (GNFS)~                                 1946    2192     2548    3247    3574     3758    3972     4207    4484
   Merchandise FOB                               1682    1916     2211    2785    3080     3226    3406     3612    3858
 Resource balance                                -546    -826     -858   -1166   -1IO3    -1093   -1091    -1097   -1 152
 Net current transfers                            343     498      741     791     808      817     854      890     917
 Current account balance                         -244    -358     -149    -415    -364     -339    -315     -304    -337
 Net private foreign direct investment            441      78       96     156     162      487     305      270     266
 Long-term loans (net)                            -82        2       53     49     247      -27      64       59      56
  Official                                        -26      36        56     38      60       24      40       44      47
  Private                                         -56      -33       -3     11     187      -50      24       15        9
 Other capital (net, incl. errors& ommissions)    -38     147        51    230      89       93      87       84       96
 Change inreservesd                               -77     131       -51    -19    -133     -214    -141     -109      -80
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                      -15.9   -21.8    -18.4  -21.8    -19.7    -18.4   -17.2    -16.2   -15.9
Real annual growth rates ( YR95 prices)
 Merchandiseexports (FOB)                         -8.5    -1.8      2.2   11.7     16.1      4.4     5.8      7.0     6.2
  Primary                                          3.1    11.2    -11.5   -1.1     11.0      4.0     5.0      5.O     5.0
  Manufactures                                   -12.6    -4.7     -1.2   18.9     17.6      4.5     6.0      7.5     6.5
 Merchandise imports (CIF)                       -15.4    21.8     -5.2   10.6      3.O      1.9     3.6      5.0     6.2




                                                                       48

                                                                                                                     Annex 5

                              Macedonia,FYR Key EconomicIndicators
                                                        -                                                              2 o f 2

                                                      (Continued)


                                                           Actual                Estimate          Projected
                  Indicator                  2001       2002       2003    2004   2005    2006   2007     2008   2009

Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
 Current revenues                               33.8       34.7       37.8   36.4    37.8   34.5   33.1     32.3   32.0
 Current expenditures                           36.9       36.9       34.1   32.7    33.5   30.9   29.8     29.3   28.9
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)     -3.1        -2.2       3.8    3.6     4.3    3.6    3.3      3.0    3.1
 Capital expenditure                             3.5         3.6      4.1     3.1     5.3    4.4    4.1      3.8    3.6
 Foreign financing                              -1.8         0.7       0.6    0.2     4.5   -0.9    0.6      0.5    0.4

Monetary indicators
 M2lGDP                                         34.9       29.5       32.2   35.9    40.2   44.9   50.0     55.6   60.6
 Growth of M2 ("h)                              56.0      -11.8       13.5   16.5    17.1   18.5   18.6     18.6   17.1
 Private sector credit growth /                -18.6       15.4       80.5  103.4   103.0  100.0  100.0    100.0  100.0
 total credit growth ("h)

Price indices( yR95 =loo)
 Merchandiseexport price index                  64.1       63.0       75.5   82.8    85.2   87.6   89.2     90.1   91.0
 Merchandise import price index                 77.2       74.7       91.0  103.6   106.7  109.7  111.8    112.9  113.6
 Merchandiseterms o f trade index               83.1       84.3       82.9   79.9    79.8   79.8   79.8     79.8   80.1
 Real exchange rate (US$/LCu)'                  87.3       87.0       87.4   86.8    87.9   85.4   85.4     85.4   85.4

 Real interest rates
 Consumer price index (% change)                  5.5        1.8       1.2   -0.4     1.2    1.8    2.0      2.0    2.0
 GDP deflator (% change)                          3.6        3.4       1.o    1.5     1.0    1.8    2.0      2.2    2.3



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includesnet unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includesuse ofIMFresources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increaseinUS$/LCU denotes appreciation.




                                                                          49

                                                                                                                             Annex 6


                             Macedonia, FYR Key Exposure Indicators
                                                      -

                                                       Actual                    Estimate                  Projected
               Indicator                   2001     2002      2003      2004      2005       2006      2007      2008    2009

Total debt outstandingand                   1469      1670      1876       2007      2144      2202        2257    2328    2408
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements (US$m)a                                                      ..      248       -34         56      70      80


Total debt service (TDS)                                                       ..      264       383        310     325     383
(US$m)a


Debt and debt service indicators
(%I
  TDOKGS~                                    96.6     110.6     98.9        86.3      78.5       74.8      71.0     68.0   65.7
  TDO/GDP                                    42.7      44.1     40.2        37.5      38.2       37.1      35.7     34.5   33.2
  TDWXGS                                                                       ..      9.7       13.0       9.8      9.5   10.5
  Concessional/TDO                           22.9      24.7     26.9        27.9


IBRDexposureindicators("h)
  IBRDDS/public DS                            1.9       8.2       9.7       12.6      13.2       12.2       11.8    12.8    13.7
  Preferred creditor DS/public               53.6      42.4     46.4        44.2      43.2       43.0      39.8     38.4   37.7
  DS (%)'
  IBRDDSKGS                                   0.8       0.9       0.8        0.9       0.8        0.9       0.9      0.9     1.0
  IBRD TDO (US$m)d                           117       138       175        218       232        263       301      338    369
    O fwhich present value of
    guarantees (US$m)
  Share of IBRDportfolio (%)                    0         0         0          0         0           0         0       0       0
  IDA TDO (US$mld                            254       293        356        387       357        356       355     352     348


IFC (US$m)
  Loans
  Equity and quasi-equity /c


MIGA




a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, privatenonguaranteed, use o f I M F credits and net short-
   termcapital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports o f goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
   Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value o fguarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types ofboth loan and equity instruments.




                                                                          50

                                                                                                                                   I



                                                                                                                        Annex 7

                                                                  FYR MACEDONIA
                                                     OperationsPortfolio (IBRD/IDAand Grants)
                                                                 A6 Of Date09/07/2005
        CI0.ed ProJ.cl.    21




 pctlv. P,Ol.CI.
                                                             !&B&
                                                         Sup.wlilon Rallng                          -a

ProJaclID                  ProJ~.sl
                                 Nimi                "2""&
                                                      wlo    nl       lame Iallon                IBRDnDA    QRANT    c.nu1.
                                                                                   F1'c'lY*u

PO66157                    EDUC MOD                     S                S           2004        6
PO74358                    SOC PROT                     S                S           2004       9.8
PO76712                    COMM DEVT                    S                S            2002       5
PO86670                    HLT SEC MOT                 MS               MS           2004       10
PO38399                    IRRlG REHAB                  S                S            1998      12.5
PO63577                    COMM DEVT & CUL             MS               MS            2001       5
PO73483                    CHILDNOUTH DEV               S                s           2001       2.5
PO83126                    REG a REAL ESTA              S                S           2005       14
PO79552                    TRADE a TRANS F
                           BUSINESSENV RE               11               0            2005      11.3
PO70089                                                 S                S            2000      9.3
                           GEF SUSTAINABLE ENERGY                                                             0.4
                                                                                    TOTAL       84.4          0.4




                                                                          51

      Annex 8




52

                                                                                                       Annex 9

                                    FYR MACEDONIA
  Selected Indicators* of Bank Portfolio Performanceand Management
                                      As Of Date 09/07/2005



Indicator*                                              2002        2003        2004     2005
PorifolioAssessment
Numberof Projects Under Implementationa/                   13           8         11        10
Average ImplementationPeriod (years) b/
Percentof ProblemProjects by Numbera'          c/        15.0        12.5         0.0      0.0
Percentof ProblemProjects by Amount       a/z  cl        16.0         8.0         0.0      0.0
Percentof Projectsat Risk by Number          d'          23.0        25.0         0.0      0.0
Percentof Projectsat Risk byAmount a'       dl           21.0        29.0         0.0      0.0
DisbursementRatio (%)                                    16.9        22.8       41.5      35.0
Porifolio Management
CPPR during the year (yeslno)                             Yes         no          no      Yes
SupervisionResources(total US$)
AverageSupervision(US$/project)


MemorandumItem                                    Since FY E Last Five FYs
Proj Eva1by OED by Number                                  18         12
Proj Eva1by OED byAmt (US$ millions)                     25.0        13.0
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Number                 16.0       16.0
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Amt                    3.7         1.7


a. As shown in the Annual Reporton PortfolioPerformance(exceptfor current FY).
b. Average age of projects in the Bank`s country portfolio.
c. Percentof projects rated U or HU on developmentobjectives (DO) and/or implementationprogress(IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio ImprovementProgram.
f. Ratioof disbursementsduring the year to the undisbursedbalanceof the Bank`s portfolioat the
   beginningof the year: Investmentprojectsonly.
* All indicators are for projects active in the Portfolio,with the exception of Disbursement Ratio,
  which includes all active projects as well as projectswhich exited duringthe fiscal year.




                                                                    53

                                                                             Annex 10

                      IFC andMIGA Program FYRMacedonia,FY 2002-2006
                                          -
                              InUS$ Millionas ofJuly 31st,2005.
                                2002       2003        2004      2005    2006

IFC OriginalCommitments(US$m)   5.85       2.95           0       0       0

Sector (YO)

FINANCE & INSURANCE             91%
TEXTILES, APPAREL & LEATHER      9%        100%
Total                           100%       100%           0       0       0

Investmentinstrument(%)
Loans                           91%
Equity                           9%        100%
Quasi-Equity
Other
Total                           100%       100%           0       0       0

MIGA guarantees(US$m)




                                                54

                                                                                                       Annex 11

                                    Summary of Non-lendingServices
                                                  FY2005 FY 2006
                                                          -

Product                                              CompletionFY    Cost (US$OOO) Audiencea/ Objective

Recent completions
CEM                                                        03             223        GlDlB      KGlPS
ROSC ACCT & AUDIT                                          03              59        GlDlB      KGlPS
AMUCFT Assessment                                          03             .59          G        KGlPS
ROSC Accounting and Auditing                               03              59         GIB       KGlPS
FSAP                                                       04             308         GIB       KGlPS
Country Financial Accountability Assessment                04              85        GIDIB      KGlPS
Country Procurement Assessment Report                      04             108        GlDlB      KGlPS
Energy Sector Strategy                                      4              53        GlDlB      KGIPS
Legal and Judicial Diagnostic                              05              79        GIDIB      KGlPS
CCGPP: Macedonia Country Assessment                        05              50        GIDIB      KGIPS
Poverty Assessment                                         05             266       GIDIBIPD   KGlPDlPS
ROSC on Corporate Governance                               05                        GlDlB      KGlPS
Governance of Financial Sector                             05                        GIDIB      KGlPS

Planned
Investment Climate Report                                  06                        GlDlB      KGIPS

a1 Government (G), Donor (D), Bank (B), Public Dissemination (PD).
bl Knowledge Generation (KG), Public Debate (PD), Problem-Solving (PS).




                                                                55

                                                                                          Annex 12
                                                                                              1of4
PressRelease No. 05/196                                             International Monetary Fund
September 1,2005                                                    700 19thStreet, NW
Revised: September 15,2005                                          Washington, D.C. 20431USA


 IMFExecutiveBoardApproves Three-Year USft75.8 Million Stand-By Arrangement for
                                             Macedonia

The Executive Boardof the InternationalMonetaryFund(JMF) on August 31approved a three-
year SDR 51.7 million (to about
US$75.8 million) Stand-By Arrangement for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to
support the country's economic program and approved an extension to the obligations schedule
ofthe country's repayments to the Fundinthe total amount o f SDR 5.4 million (about US$7.9
million).

The approval o f the arrangement enablesFYRMacedoniato draw SDR 10.5 million
(about US$15.4 million) immediately. The authorities have indicatedthat, after making the
initialpurchase, they do not planto draw under the arrangement and intendto treat the
arrangement as precautionary.

Following the Executive Board's discussion onMacedonia, Mr.TakatoshiKato, Deputy
ManagingDirector and ActingChair, stated:

"The authorities ofthe former Yugoslav Republic ofMacedonia are to be commended for their
sound macroeconomic policies: fiscal discipline has kept the debt ratio low, while the de facto
exchange rate peg has brought inflation close to zero. However, structural impedimentshave led
to relatively weak economic growth, persistentlyhighunemployment, and a wide current
account deficit. The authorities' strong program focuses on structural reforms aimed at increasing
growth and employment andreducing the extemal imbalance, while securing the past gains in
macroeconomic stabilization. The programalso supports the process of integration with the EU,
and i s expected to allow for an orderly exit fromlong-term financial engagementwith the Fund.
The recent upgradinginFYRMacedonia's creditratings i s encouraging.

"A core programelement is an ambitious labor marketreform, whichshouldbringdownnon-
wage labor costs and allow for a more efficient allocation o fresources. The reform should help
draw employment out of the grey market, thus ensuring that labor enjoys legal protections while
also contributing to increased revenue collection. A comprehensive judicial reformto strengthen
the rule of law andbringthe court systemcloser to European standards will further improve the
businessclimate. These reforms and other measuresinthe program should leadto higher
investment, includingforeign direct investment, and lay the basis for stronger growth and
employment creation.

"The program's fiscal policies will sustainthe adjustment already achieved, keepingthe
government debt ratio on a declining path, includingthrough the plannedbroad-based
containment of expenditures. Structural fiscal reforms, including the consolidationand
rationalizationo f the collection o fpayroll taxes, and measuresto improve budget planning and
execution, will strengthen the efficiency of government operations over time. Inthe same vein,
the authorities have begun to confront long-standing problems inthe health sector, signalinga
renewed commitment to fiscal integrity and budget management inthis sector.

"Monetary policy will continue to rely on the de facto peg o f the denar to the euro to ensure
stable and low inflation. The robustness of the pegwill be underpinnedby usingprivatization
receipts to boost international reserves and by recapitalizing the centralbank inorder to ensure



                                                   56

                                                                                             Annex 12
                                                                                                   2 of4
its financial independence and further strengthen its policy credibility. Supervisory procedures
and regulations have already been strengthened inorder to contain balance sheet risks that might
arise from euroization and rapid credit growth. Further prudentialmeasures to manage banks'
balance sheet risks are included inthe program," Mr.Kat0 said.

Background

Despite the success inmacroeconomic stabilization under the previous IMF-supported
arrangement, which expired inAugust 2004, economic growth inFYRMacedonia has remained
modest. Fiscal discipline has produced a modest and declining debt ratio and the de facto
exchange rate peg has brought inflation close to zero, but deficiencies inthe functioning o f the
relevant institutions have underminedbusiness activity and kept per capita FDIlow.
The resulting weak competitiveness has ledto disappointing growth, highunemployment, and a
persistent current account deficit.

Program Summary

The new program includes structural reforms to improve the business climate, and thus
competitiveness, and sound macroeconomic policies to maintain financial stability. As the
structural reforms take effect, GDP growth i s projected to accelerate from less than 3 percent per
annum in2003-04 to 4.5 percent in2007 and the external current account deficit i s expected to
narrow significantly.

On the macroeconomic front, monetarypolicy will continue to be based on the de facto peg to
the euro, ensuring continuedlow inflation. The peg will be strengthenedby usingprivatization
proceeds to raise internationalreserve cover from about three months o f imports at end-2004 to
about four months o f imports by end 2006. Appropriate financial policies will maintainreserve
cover thereafter. Given recent rapid credit growth-much       o f it denominated in, or indexed to,
the euro-the   program aims to mitigate balance sheet risks through strengthened prudential
oversight and measures aimed at improving governance inbanks.

The fiscal program i s anchored by a medium-term deficit target o f 0.6 percent o f GDP, which
will bringthe central government debt-to-GDP ratio down to about 33 percent by 2008. The key
to reachingthe program's ambitious deficit target i s a broad-based containment o f expenditures,
including wages, and the strengthening o f tax administrationthrough a carefully sequenced set
o freforms. Expenditure management will be improved and reform o f the Health Insurance Fund
will strengthen government oversight over health expenditure. The program also aims to
improve FYRMacedonia's borrowing capacity by developing the domestic debt market and
establishing access to internationalcapital markets.

The structural core o f the program i s a wide range o f reforms which should enhance
competitiveness by improving conditions for investment and business activity. The new L a w on
Labor Relations, which strikes a better balance betweenworkers' rights and employers' needs,
creates more favorable conditions for business activity by reducing restrictions on short-term and
part-time employment contracts and overtime work. Comprehensive judicial reform, to be
implemented over several years, will create a fairer and more predictable framework for business
activity by increasing the independence and professionalismo fjudges, eliminating court delays,
and removing misdemeanors and administrative cases from the regular courts. The labor market
andjudicial reforms will be complemented by a number o f measures to strengthen the
framework for business activity, including, notably, measures to shorten the time neededto open
a business. Many o f the reforms included inthe program are also supported by the World Bank
and by other multilateral and bilateral donors.




                                                   57

                                                                                   Annex 12
                                                                                      3 of4


                    FYRMacedonia: Selected EconomicIndicators, 2003-08


                                          2003    2004      -2006
                                                            2005             2007   2008

                                                  Prel.               Proj  .


Real economy                                           (Percent change)

Real GDP                                    2.8     2.9       3.7     4.0      4.5    4.5

Consumer prices, (period average) 11        1.2    -0.3        1.2     1.8     2.0    2.0

Unemploymentrate (average)                 36.7    35.6         ...     ...     ...    ...

Government finances                               (InpercentofnominalGDP)

Central government balance 21              -0.1     0.7       -0.8    -0.6    -0.6   -0.6

Revenues (including grants)                38.4    37.5      38.9    35.4     34.1   33.2

Expenditures                               38.5    36.8      39.7     36.1    34.7   33.8

Central Government debt

Gross                                      39.0    37.6      40.9     36.6    35.8   33.4

Net 31                                     34.9    33.3      33.5     27.3    25.6   25.0

Money and credit                                 (Percent change, end of period)

Broad money (M3)                           18.0    16.1       17.7    18.4       ...    ...

Total credit to private sector             19.0    25.0       22.7    19.1       ...    ...

Short-term lendingrate (percent)           14.5    11.8          ...     ...     ...    ...

Interbankmoney market rate (percent)        6.8     8.3          ...     ...     ...    ...

Balance of payments                                   (InmillionsofEuro)

Exports                                   1,207   1,344      1,640   1,755    1,893  2,043

Imports                                   1,96 1  2,244      2,517  2,636     2,792  2,958

Trade balance                              -754    -900       -877    -881     -899  -915
I                                                                   --




                                              58

                                                                                             Annex 12
                                                                                                4 of4
                                                  2003      2004       2005    2006    2007   2008

                                                             Prel.               Proj.

Current account balance

excluding grants                                   -231      -396       -345    -287    -281   -255

(inpercent o fGDP)                                 -5.6       -9.4      -7.8    -6.1    -5.6   -4.8

I
including grants                                   -142      -343       -288    -242    -244   -202

(inpercento f GDP)                                 -3.5       -8.2      -6.5     -5.2   -4.9   -3.8

Overall balance                                      20       -25        212     169     125    101

Official gross reserves                             715       717        916   1,078 1,190    1,275

 (inmonthso ffollowing year's importsof              3.3       2.9       3.6      4.0    4.1    4.1
 goods and services)

 External debt to GDP ratio (percent) 41           42.4       44.8      46.7    44.9    44.6   43.5

 Exchange rates                                            (Percent change, periodaverage)

 Real effective exchange rate (CPI-based)            2.7      -1.8         ...      ...   ...

 Real effective exchange rate (ULC-based)           -1.1       1.1         ...      ...    ...


 Sources: Dataprovided by the authorities; and IMF staffprojections.
 1/ Recentrevisionsby the State Statistics Office have not been incorporatedinthis document.
 2/ 0.4 percent o f GDP ofthe 2005 fiscal account deficit i s caused by the NBRMrecapitalization.
 3/ Gross debt minus government's deposits with the NBRM.
 4/ Total external debt, including trade credit. Includes for 2005 an 150 million Eurobond
 issuance.




                        IMFEXTERNALRELATIONSDEPARTMENT

                     Media Relations: 202-623-7100 - Fax: 202-623-6772
                        Public Affairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax: 202-623-6278




                                                       59

