Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17246
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2726-MAU)
December 19, 1997
Macroeconomics 5
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =             Mauritanian Ouguiyas (UM)
US$1                      =               166.9 UM (as of Dec. 19, 1997)
SDR I=                                   US$1.36115 (as of Dec. 19, 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALMAP               Fishing Company
ARCB                Agence de Recouvrement des Creances Bancaires
CBP                 Capacity Building Project
CCIA                Chambre de Commerce, dI'ndustrie et d'Agriculture
CNROP               Oceanographic Research Center
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
ENA                 Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National School of Public Administration)
ESAF                Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                  European Union
GIE                 Groupement dI'nteret Economique
GIRM                Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IFAC                International Federation of Accountants
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
KAIC                A Kuwait/Algeria Company
MAUSOV              Fishing Company
OCAM                Organisation Commune Africaine et Malagache
OECF                Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PESAP               Public Enterprise Sector Assistance Project
PFP                 Policy Framework Paper
PSDC                Private Sector Development Credit
SECAL               Sector Adjustment Loan
TA                  Technical Assistance
Vice-President            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director          Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager           Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader          Miguel Saponara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2726-MAU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .............................................................                                                                                      i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION  ............................................................. 1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................................................                                                           I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................................                                                    2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...........                                                        .............. 6
D. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY .............................................................                                                       6
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ............................................................. 7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE  ............................................................. 8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ............................................................. 8
H. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED                                                             ............................................................. 8
1. FUTURE OPERATION  ............................................................. 8
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .............................................................                                                 9
TIABLE 2. WORLD BANK LOANS/IDA CREDITS .............................................................                                         10
TABLE 3.  PROJECT TIMETABLE ............................................................. I I
TABLE 4. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS - CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ......................... 11
TABLE 5. KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................................... 11
TABLE 6.  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION  ............................................................. 12
TABLE 7.  STUDIES INCLUDED  IN PROJECT .............................................................                                        14
TABLE 8A. PROJECT COSTS .............................................................                                                        14
TABLE 8B. PROJECT FINANCING  ............................................................. 14
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS .............................................................                                        14
TABLE  10.  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .........................                                     .................................... 15
TABLE 1 1. COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ...................................... 18
TABLE  12. BANK  RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS .............................................................                                       8
TABLE 13. BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS .............................................................                                           18
APPENDICES
APPENDIX  A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE .............................................................                                           19
APPENDIX  B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION  TO  THE ICR ............................................................ 22
MAP: IBRD 25935
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2726-MAU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Sector Development
Credit in Mauritania for which adjustment Credit 2726-MAU in an amount of SDR 19.3 million
(equivalent to US$30 million) was approved on April 26, 1995 and made effective on June 23, 1995.
A supplementary credit of SDR 500,000 from the FY96 IDA Reflow Facility was approved on
October 30, 1995.
The credit was fully disbursed by April 4, 1997 and was closed on October 8, 1997. The first
tranche of SDR 8.9 million, released upon effectiveness, was disbursed by October 12, 1995. The
second tranche of SDR 5.2 million, released on March 23, 1996, was disbursed by Febru#ry 7, 1997.
The third tranche of SDR 5.2 million, released on March 31, 1997, was disbursed on April 4, 1997.
The supplemental credit of SDR 0.5 million was disbursed by July 15, 1996. Parallel financing to
the IDA credit was provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan in an
amount equivalent to US$30 million. Disbursements from the OECF were made at the same time as
the tranche releases of the IDA Credit
The ICR was prepared by Mr. William D. Cooper (Consultant) and reviewed by Mr. Miguel
Saponara (Team Leader, AFTM5), Mr. Emmanuel Akpa (Sector Manager, AFTM5) and Mr. Hasan
Tuluy (Country Director, AFC15). Ms. Atossa Shafa (Lang. Staff Assistant, AFTM5) provided
support in processing the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun following IDA's final supervision mission in March 1997.
The ICR is based on material from the project files, data provided by the Government, and
'discussions with Bank and Borrower staff involved in project preparation, appraisal and supervision.
The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the draft and preparing
its own evaluation of the project. The Borrower's report is included as an appendix to the ICR.



: X : fi f :E



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2726-MAU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    From  1986 to 1990, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRM)
implemented a program of structural reforms aimed at redressing macro-economic imbalances,
liberalizing the economic system and establishing conditions for sustained growth. IDA supported
this program through a Structural Adjustment Credit (1987), followed by an Agricultural SECAL
(1990) and a Public Enterprises SECAL (1990). Exogenous shocks in the early 1990s forced the
GIRM to interrupt the implementation of its reform program. However, the program was resumed in
late 1992 when macroeconomic conditions deteriorated further. Eventually, in 1995, the IMF
supported the reform program through a second-round Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) of SDR 42.5 million, while IDA focused its support on reforms in the financial and private
sectors through this Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC, Credit 2726-MAU of SDR 19.3
million, 1995). Parallel financing to the PSDC was provided by the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) in an amount equivalent to US$30 million. Implementation of
the PSDC was supported by IDA through the Capacity Building Project (CBP, Credit 2730-MAU of
SDR 4.7 million, 1995).
Project Objectives
2.    The project's overall objective was to promote private sector development by improving the
legal and institutional framework and consolidating financial sector reforms, with an explicit
emphasis on the mining and fishing sectors where private sector activity was considered to have
scope for expanding.
Policy measures were grouped under six objectives:
*  Improve the incentive structure for private sector development
*  Improve the foreign exchange and trade regime for the private sector
*  Consolidate the restructuring of the banking sector and strengthen financial sector
regulations
*  Develop financial markets and institutions
*  Develop the fisheries sector
*  Develop the mining sector
3.    The Government's position on the reform program was set out in Letters of Development
Policy for the financial and private sectors and for the fisheries sector. Specific policy measures



iii
covering the entire program were consolidated in a policy matrix annexed to the President's Report
(PR).
4.    Reform objectives were consistent with the Sixth-Year (1995-97), Seventh-Year (1996-98)
and Eighth-Year (1997-99) Policy Framework Papers (PFPs). The two Policy Letters were an
integral part of the Credit Agreement and clearly spelled out the Government's position on
improving the financial and private sectors and on developing private investment in fisheries
activities. The policy framework for the mining sector and the action program for reform of the
legal and judiciary system were to be developed under the project and the reform program in these
two sectors was less well defined. In the event, this caused implementation delays for these two
program components. The program was ambitious and relatively complex, but considered within the
Borrower's capacity to implement.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Most tranche release conditionalities were met on time and the project was completed within
the schedule set at appraisal. Audit reports were submitted on time; they were unqualified. One
condition for second tranche release was waived and attached to the third tranche; two third tranche
conditions were modified. Project objectives were fully achieved in four areas: banking sector
reform; liberalization of the foreign exchange system; development of financial markets and
institutions; and privatization of the fisheries sector. Objectives in two other areas - revision of the
legal and regulatory framework, and reform of the mining sector - were only partly achieved. Work
in these sectors, however, is continuing with support of the ongoing Capacity Building Project and
objectives are expected to be achieved within the next two years. Sustainability of the results
appears likely.
6.    The credit was released in three tranches. The first tranche of SDR 8.9 million (US$13.4
million) was released at effectiveness on June 23, 1995. The second tranche of SDR 5.2 million
(US$7.4 million) was released on May 23, 1996, and the third tranche of SDR 5.2 million (US$7.2
million) on May 23, 1997, both after satisfactory implementation of the conditionalities specified in
the President's Report. The supplementary credit of SDR 0.5 million (US$0.7 million) was released
on July 15, 1996. Parallel financing was provided by the Government of Japan in the amount of
US$30 million equivalent, with disbursements tied to the tranche releases of the IDA credit.
7.    Key factors that positively affected project outcomes included the Government's firm
commitment to the implementation of the reform program and tight Bank supervision that strictly
focused on tranche release conditionalities. The main factor that made implementation difficult was
the sheer complexity of the program. The time needed to revise legal texts and prepare new
regulations was underestimated while the Government did initially not focus on preparing its new
policy on mining sector development. In addition, technical assistance provided by the Capacity
Building Project (Cr. 2730-MAU), with its four-year implementation period, was not well
synchronized with the implementation timetable of the policy reform program, a shortcoming in
project design which delayed some aspects of the operation.
8.    IDA's performance in project design, preparation and appraisal is considered unsatisfactory.
IDA did not sufficiently appreciate the complexity of the legal and regulatory reforms that were to
be implemented, underestimated the time required to update laws and develop new regulations, and



iv
did not adequately link the TA support provided by the Capacity Building Project to the reform
process. In addition, total discontinuity in staffing between the project preparation team and the
supervision team made the startup of implementation difficult. However, IDA performance in
project supervision was efficient and is rated as satisfactory.
9.    Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Tranche release conditions were satisfied on
schedule with the exception of those for the legal framework and the mining sector for which it was
agreed more time was needed. Conditionalities for these items were adjusted to allow for a more
realistic implementation schedule of these components.
10.   Project outcome is rated satisfactory and sustainability probable. The credit pushed the
Government to implement major policies as stipulated in successive PFPs, effectively liberalized the
banking sector, strengthened private sector activities in fisheries, and laid strong foundations for
reforms in the mining sector and improvements in the legal and regulatory framework.
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned, and Future Operations
11.   The key lessons drawn from this operation can be summarized as follows:
*  Devote adequate time and effort to build understanding and ownership of reforms at
both the political and the administrative levels, and effectively involve the Borrower in
supervising the reform program;
*  Carefully assess the sequencing and timing of the reform program and explicitly link the
corresponding institutional support to the implementation timetable of the reform
program;
3  Maintain continuity within the Bank team throughout preparation, appraisal end
supervision, and carefully build and maintain relations with counterpart staff, working
with them as a team;
3  Ensure there is good coordination with the IMF and donors, right from the beginning.
12.   Although no future private sector operation is planned over the next three years in the CAS,
some projects/initiatives with significant private sector content are either underway or are being
considered by both Govemment and the Bank. These include, in particular, ongoing private sector
promotion activities in mining, fishing and public utilities, and the scheduled restructuring the
Chamber of Commerce with support from the ongoing Capacity Building Project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2726-MAU)
PART I: PROJECT EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.    From  1986 to 1990, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRM)
implemented a program of structural reforms aimed at redressing macro-economic imbalances,
liberalizing the economic system and establishing conditions for sustained growth. IDA supported
this program through a Structural Adjustment Credit (1987), followed by an Agricultural SECAL
(1990) and a Public Enterprises SECAL (1990). Several exogenous shocks that occurred during the
later part of the period forced the GIRM to interrupt the implementation of its reform program in the
early 1990s. However, the program was resumed in late 1992 when macroeconomic conditions
deteriorated further. Eventually, in 1995, the IMF supported the program through a second-round
Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of SDR 42.5 million, while IDA focused its support
on reforms in the financial and private sectors through this Private Sector Development Credit
(PSDC). Implementation of the PSDC was supported by the Capacity Building Project for
Development of the Private Sector (IDA Credit 2730-MAU, SDR 4.7 million, 1995). Parallel
financing to the PSDC was provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF)
in an amount equivalent to US$30 million.
2.    The Credit Agreement was amended twice, once in May 1966 to waive a condition for
release of the second tranche (the adoption of professional accounting standards, an area in which
adequate progress was being made) and adding it as a condition for third tranche release; and the
second time in January 1997 to modify two conditions for third tranche release in order to introduce
a more realistic implementation schedule for reforms in the legal and regulatory framework and in
the mining sector.
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    Description of objectives. The project was an adjustment credit to be disbursed in three
tranches over two years. Its overall objective was to promote private sector development by
improving the legal and institutional framework and consolidating financial sector reforms so as to
help ensure better service and improved private sector access to credit. There was an explicit
emphasis on the mining and fishing sectors where private sector activity had scope for expanding.
Policy measures were grouped under six objectives:
*  Improve the incentive structure for private sector development;
*  Improve the foreign exchange and trade regime for the private sector;
*  Consolidate the restructuring of the banking sector and strengthen financial sector
regulations;
*  Develop financial markets and institutions;



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                               2
* Develop the fisheries sector;
* Develop the mining sector.
4.    The Government's position on policy reforms in the financial and private sectors and in the
fisheries sector was set out in Letters of Development Policy, submitted to IDA prior to credit
effectiveness and included in the legal agreement. Specific policy measures covering the entire
program were consolidated in a detailed matrix annexed to the President's Report (PR).
5.    Assessment of objectives. Program objectives were consistent with the Sixth-year (1995-
97), Seventh-year (1996-1998) and Eighth-year (1997-1999) PFPs. In addition, the policy letters
clearly spelled out the Government's strategy for developing the financial and private sectors and
promoting private investment in fisheries activities, and gave substance to the objectives of the
reform program in these two areas. The program was prepared with strong Mauritanian input and
evident commitment. The main risk that could negatively affect the outcome of the program was the
political nature of the problems affecting the banking sector which was controlled by powerful
Mauritanian families. The Government effectively countered this risk by strictly enforcing financial
sector regulations in accordance with international standards and by closely supervising the banking
sector through the Central Bank. The reform program was ambitious in scope and relatively
complex, but considered within the Borrower's capacity to implement.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    The project substantially or fully achieved four of the six objectives listed above, namely (i)
consolidating the restructuring of the banking and financial sectors; (ii) improving the foreign
exchange and trade regime; (iii) developing financial markets and institutions; and (iv) developing
the fisheries sector. The project was partially successful in improving the incentive structure for
private sector development, and developing the mining sector.
Objective 1: Improve the incentive structure for private sector development
7.    This objective was supported with four sets of measures: (i) revision of the legal and
judiciary framework; (ii) revision of investment incentives and introduction of tax-free regimes for
exporters; (iii) upgrading of the accounting and auditing framework; and (iv) development of a
support structure for the private sector. Reform measures were initiated in all four areas but they
were not completed and objectives were only partially achieved. They will be further pursued under
the ongoing Capacity Building Project for Development of the Private Sector (CBP). The status of
each measure is summarized below:
8.    Legal and judiciary framework: A study of the existing legal framework was completed in
January 1995, prior to credit effectiveness.  An action plan to implement the study's
recommendations was to be prepared and new laws and regulations were to be drafted, with
assistance provided by the Capacity Building Project (CBP). This work took much longer than
anticipated due to delays in recruiting consultants with the right profile and experience. It became
clear during a supervision in November 1996 that the original timetable for completing the revisions
and submitting new laws to Parliament for approval - a condition for release of the third tranche of
the credit, due in March 1997 - was unrealistic and needed to be amended. Consequently, the
timetable was revised and the conditionality reduced to the submission of an action plan and an



3                                                                    Project Evaluation
outline of the revised legislation, and the credit agreement was amended in this sense in December
1996. The amended conditionality was met in March 1997 leading to release of the third tranche.
9.    The revised legal texts and regulations are expected to be completed by mid-1998, with the
CBP providing the necessary technical assistance. Following the usual administrative process of
consultation, review and harmonization, Parliamentary approval of the new laws is scheduled for
December 1998, and the revised legal framework is expected to become fully operational in
1999/2000.
10.   Commercial legislation is being revised taking Islamic law and local customs into account
and will also adhere to international business standards. In this connection, the Government has in
1997 signed the 1958 New York Convention on International Arbitration and has initiated the
ratification process for the 1980 Vienna Convention on International Sale and the 1955 The Hague
Convention on Sale Dispute Settlement.
11.   Following an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Justice, improvements were made in
the working conditions of judges and other legal staff, including salary increases, and arrangements
were made for the regular publication of the Official Gazette. In addition, to improve the quality of
legal service delivery, training programs for justices and court auxiliaries were developed and are
being conducted on a regular basis.
12.   Revision of investment incentives: This is an ongoing program that has not yet been
completed. As an important part of revising the investment code, the Government is in the process
of preparing fiscal and tariff reforms, with assistance from IDA under the Public Resource
Management Credit (Cr. 2887-MAU, 1996), and from the IMF under the ESAF. When these are
completed, the Government plans to introduce a tax free regime for exporters (regime de points
francs). A one-stop window (guichet unique) was set up in February 1997 to facilitate applications
for the establishment of new businesses. The guichet is operational but is expected to become more
effective once the new investment code is adopted.
13.   Accounting and auditing framework: A study to reorganize and strengthen the accounting
and auditing profession in Mauritania was completed in 1995. Revised decrees and regulations for
the accounting profession were enacted in early 1997. New accounting norms were drafted and
approved by Government but not yet enacted due to delays in translating them into Arabic. The
revised accounting and auditing standards and regulations conform to international standards as
practiced by OCAM (Organisation Commune Africaine et Malagache) and IFAC (the International
Federation of Accountants). Training programs for accountants and auditors are being developed
and are expected to be implemented as planned.
14.   Support structure for the private sector: Project objectives were to reorganize and strengthen
the Chamber of Commerce (Chambre de Commerce, d'Industrie et d'Agriculture - CCIA) to serve
as a channel of communication between Government and the private sector, provide technical
assistance to the private sector on a commercial basis, and act as a repository of information on
business regulations and investment opportunities. At project completion, these objectives were
only partially achieved: new statutes to restructure the CCIA and a plan to implement the
reorganization were drafted but not implemented due to lack of agreement among Mauritanian
stakeholders about the nature, legal status and level of autonomy of the CCIA. Little progress has



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                              4
been made in tackling these issues since June 1996, and there is no indication that they will be
resolved promptly. CCIA restructuring, however, will be pursued under the Capacity Building
Project.
Objective 2: Improve the foreign exchange and trade regime for the private sector
15.   This objective was fully achieved. The Central Bank has continued to implement agreed
policies on exchange rates and has implemented a unified exchange rate system. The Central Bank
has also completed the debt buyback operation and has assisted the commercial banks in eliminating
arrears to foreign correspondents.  The exchange system was fully liberalized through the
elimination of prior export authorizations and the preferential exchange rate for workers'
remittances, and through the removal of limits on transfers for invisible payments. A free market for
foreign currency banknotes and travelers cheques was created and a unified market-determined
exchange rate was achieved by end-1 995. In addition, foreign exchange bureaus were established.
Objective 3: Consolidate the restructuring of the banking sector and strengthen financial sector
regulations
16.   Objectives of this component were fully achieved. The restructuring of the banking sector
was completed in December 1995 by the recapitalization of four commercial banks and the
liquidation of the national development bank (Union des Banques de Developpement). Other reform
measures successfully implemented under the project are: (i) Banking law and prudential
regulations: The soundness of the banking system was re-established with the adoption of a new
banking law in January 1995 which includes updated prudential regulations pertaining to capital
adequacy, risk provisioning and exposure limits. The new prudential regulations are enforced and
all banks are currently in compliance with the new banking law; (ii) Credit risk and arrears
information system: The credit risk and arrears data base was updated and extended to improve the
quality of the loan portfolios of commercial banks, and a Credit Risk Information System and a
Credit Arrears Information System were set up in the Central Bank; (iii) Debt recovery: Non-
performing loans in the amount of 1.5 billion UM held by the State-controlled Agence de
Recouvrement des Creances Bancaires (ARCB) were recovered as agreed (a condition of third
tranche release).
Objective 4: Develop financial markets and institutions
17.   The objectives of this component were substantially achieved. The Central Bank has
successfully created the foundations of an interbank money market through regular auctions of
treasury bills, as agreed. This has helped established a market-related interest rate as banks have had
to compete for purchasing Government debt instruments. Market liquidity is ensured through
periodic interventions by the Central Bank, in accordance with guidelines established by the policy
framework of the Sixth-year PFP.
Objective 5: Develop the fisheries sector
18.   The GIRM's strategy for developing the fisheries sector, adopted in September 1994, marks
the start of significant reforms. The GIRM's objectives for the fisheries sector supported by the
project were summarized in the letter of development policy attached to the legal agreement and
include: (i) the progressive implementation of a transparent, equitable licensing system for deep sea



5                                                                    Project Evaluation
and pelagic fishing; (ii) rigorous surveillance of fish export operations and the imposition of
penalties; (iii) conservation of fishing resources; (iv) restructuring and strengthening of the
regulatory framework; and (v) disengagement of the State from fish production and marketing.
These objectives were substantially achieved, as summarized in the following sections:
19.   Licensing system: Under the project, the GIRM has replaced the outdated and arbitrary
system of awarding fishing licenses for pelagic fishing used in the past with a more transparent
system of bidding for licenses that are awarded to boats instead of to individuals. The new licensing
system has had a positive impact on the development of artisanal fishing which today contributes 10
percent of total fishing exports and employs 5 percent of the working population. As for demersal
and cephalod (deep sea) fishing, which mainly affects the national fleet, the GIRM has, over the
1994-97 period, progressively replaced the existing export tax with a system of access rights based
on the value of production. As in the case of pelagic fishing, access rights are awarded to ships
instead of individuals. In 1997, as a third tranche release conditionality, access rights were set at
11% of the estimated value of production. The new system of fishing licenses and access rights is
considered fair and competitive and has, as anticipated, increased Government revenues while
providing incentives to producers.
20.   Maritime surveillance: Surveillance to prevent illegal fishing has been strengthened as
agreed, with German technical assistance in the provision and operation of surveillance vessels.
21.   Conservation of resources: The Oceanographic Research Center (CNROP) was not
strengthened as planned and has remained ineffective. The CNROP suffered from a chronic
shortage of operating funds and lacked a clear operational plan. As a result, the CNROP was not
well equipped to conduct research in the areas of surveillance and management of fisheries
resources, sanitary control (in particular to satisfy the strict requirements set by the EU), and the
conservation of fish stocks. Resource, staffing and management problems at the CNROP persisted
throughout project implementation and the institution did not play its anticipated role of providing
scientific support to the development of the fisheries sector. Measures to correct these weaknesses
and improve the long-term financial stability of the institution will be presented to the donor
community in the context of the next five-year plan (1998-2002).
22.   Strengthening the regulatory framework: Progress in this area is limited and objectives have
not been achieved. The planned reorganization of the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy
and the training of its staff in new technologies and private sector concerns has not been
implemented because anticipated donor support did not materialize. This aspect of the reform
program has been taken on by the Public Resource Management Credit (Cr. 2887-MAU), approved
in 1996. Taxation of the fisheries enterprises has been postponed to await the results of the tax
reform being prepared under the same credit.
23.   Disengagement of the State from production and marketing: The Government's role in fish
production was reduced, as agreed under the program, through divestiture or reduced shareholding in
the two main fishing companies (MAUSOV and ALMAP). With regard to MAUSOV, the
Government has sold its shares to a private operator for about 120 million UM. The Government
has reduced its shareholding in ALMAP by opening the company's capital to a Kuwait-Algerian
joint venture which also took over the management of the company. In the area of fish marketing,
the Societe Mauritanienne pour la Commercialisation du Poisson was partially privatized.



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                               6
Efficiency gains were obtained as private operators were able to obtain better prices through long-
term agreements with overseas markets (the EU, in particular).
Objective 6: Develop the mining sector
24.   The project included two measures to help improve private sector involvement in the mining
sector: (i) the formulation of a medium-term sector development strategy; and (ii) revision of the
regulatory framework. Both measures have experienced implementation delays and objectives have
only been partially achieved.
25.   Mining sector development strategy.  Support for drafting a new mining policy and
associated mining laws and regulations was provided under the Capacity Building Project.
Unfortunately, the Government had difficulties recruiting qualified consultants in time and the
startup of this component was delayed. As a result, the objective of submitting to Parliament new
mining legislation by March 1997 (a third tranche release conditionality) could not be achieved and
the Bank agreed to revise the conditionality requiring the Government to issue a policy statement on
the mining sector and an action plan to implement agreed policy measures. This revised
conditionality was met in March 1997 when the Government issued a mining sector policy letter
plus an index of amendments to the mining code. The policy statement correctly addresses the
removal of legal and institutional obstacles that hinder private sector participation in mining sector
development. The action plan includes (i) steps to update the legal framework and revise the mining
code to attract private investors; (ii) harmonization of tax provisions with international tax practices;
(iii) an incentive program for private investors; and (iv) environmental protection measures. The
plan is expected to be implemented by end-1998, with technical assistance from the CBP.
26.   Strengthening the regulatory framework. The main regulatory agency (the Directorate of
Mines in the Ministry of Mines and Industry) was to be strengthened and streamlined, its staff
trained and administrative procedures simplified. Unfortunately, technical assistance to be provided
by other donors did not materialize and this part of the program has therefore been transferred to the
Public Resource Management Project (Cr. 2887-MAU) as part of a larger institutional restructuring
program that includes several key ministries including Mines and Industry. This program is
expected to be completed in 1998/99 with support from other donors. In addition, the mining
cadastre will be updated and the quality and availability of geological and geophysical data for
private investors will be improved under the CBP, with completion expected by end-1998.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
27.   Key factors that positively affected project outcomes included the Government's firm
commitment to the implementation of the reform program and tight Bank supervision that strictly
focused on tranche release conditionalities. Factors that made implementation difficult were the
sheer complexity of the program, an underestimation of the time needed to revise legal texts and
prepare new regulations, and inadequate operational linkages between this project and the parallel
Capacity Building Project.
D.    PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
28.   Sustainability of the program's achievements is likely. Achievements generated in the
fisheries sector and the banking system are fully expected to be sustained, particularly as new



7                                                                    Project Evaluation
policies and programs are enshrined in laws and enforced by regulations. Although not yet
completed, the operational plans for mining sector reform and for revising the legal and regulatory
framework are excellent. Program objectives in these areas are expected to be fully achieved and
maintained, provided that the donor community continues to support the reform program. Bank
Group support for economic and sector reforms is being maintained by the Capacity Building Project
for Development of the Private Sector (Cr. 2730-MAU) and by the Public Resource Management
Credit (Cr. 2887-MAU), both under implementation. In addition, the Borrower remains strongly
committed to pursuing its reform program while incentives for private sector participation are
steadily improving. Finally, institutional strengthening is taking place on a national scale, supported
by the Bank and other donors under a variety of operations including those mentioned above.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   The Bank's performance in project preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory. First, after
Bank management decided to change the original design concept of a hybrid operation into an
adjustment operation (this credit) supported by a parallel TA project (the CBP), the Bank team failed
to carefully sequence the two operations as recommended by the Loan Committee. The two
operations remained out of sync, and some of the support needed to implement the reform measures
was not available when needed. Second, despite the high level of Bank support for project
preparation (about 134 staff-weeks or 62% of total resources expended for the operation), some
details of the policy program were not well worked out and were left to be developed under the
parallel Capacity Building Project. Third, after Board approval, the entire team responsible for
project preparation and appraisal left the Bank, losing some project files and documents in the
process. Operational relations between Borrower and Bank staff had to be re-established and this
delayed the start-up of implementation. Finally, the Bank did not fully appreciate the complexity of
the legal and regulatory reforms to be introduced under the project and underestimated the time
needed to prepare the necessary revisions to laws, regulations and procedures. This later led to (well
justified) adjustments in the conditionalities of third tranche release.
30.   Bank performance in project supervision was satisfactory. There was good continuity in
supervision mission staffing, and excellent support from the Resident Mission in Nouakchott. The
four supervision missions conducted over two years correctly focused on progress made in satisfying
the second and third tranche release conditionalities and provided technical assistance to see that
these were met. Supervision was rigorous but sensitive to the political and institutional exigencies of
the reform process, as evidenced by adjustments made in conditionalities for third tranche release.
Dialogue with the Borrower on project execution and outcomes was quite effectively maintained
throughout the project period, evidence of excellent Bank-Borrower team work.
31.   As for cooperation with other donors, relations between the Bank and IMF teams during
project preparation and appraisal was poor, particularly with respect to the restructuring of the
banking sector. During implementation, however, cooperation between the two institutions was
close and effective, and many of the policy measures introduced under this operation were included
in the policy matrix of the PFP and the IMF's ESAF. The Bank team maintained excellent relations
with the major donors (the European Union, France, Germany, Japan) throughout project
preparation, appraisal and supervision.



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                               8
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.  The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The Borrower participated actively in project
preparation and, with the help of consultants, conducted the required pre-investment studies. The
Central Bank and the Ministry of Plan - the key agencies mainly responsible for implementing the
reform process - acted efficiently and with high professional standards, and in full cooperation with
the Bank team. Their performance is reflected in the substantial results obtained in achieving the
major objectives of the reform program. The Borrower, however, underestimated the time required
to identify and recruit consultants with the right profile and experience to help develop and
implement the program which significantly delayed the implementation of the legal and mining
reforms.  The project coordination unit attached to the Ministry of Plan played a largely
administrative role and performed satisfactorily. Audit reports of project accounts were submitted
on time; these were all unqualified.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
33.   The Government has successfully implemented the major components of this ambitious
reform program and has substantially achieved the objectives of the project. The overall assessment
of the project's outcome is therefore rated as satisfactory.
H.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of this operation show that it is necessary
for the Bank to:
3  Devote adequate time and effort to build understanding and ownership of reforms at
both the political and the administrative levels, and effectively involve the Borrower in
supervising the reform program (paras. 29, 32)
- Carefully assess the sequencing and timing of the reform program and explicitly link the
corresponding institutional support to the implementation timetable of the reform
program (para. 29)
*  Maintain continuity within the Bank team  throughout preparation, appraisal and
supervision, and carefully build and maintain relations with counterpart staff, working
with them as a team (paras. 29,30)
* Ensure there is good coordination with the IMF and donors, right from the beginning of
the operation (para. 31)
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
35.   Although no future private sector operation is planned over the next three years in the CAS,
some projects/initiatives with significant private sector content are either underway or are being
considered by both Government and the Bank. These include, in particular, ongoing private sector
promotion activities in mining, fishing and public utilities, the scheduled restructuring of the
Chamber of Commerce, and continuing activities supported by the Capacity Building Project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2726-MAU)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
Assessmnts
A. Attainment of Objectives       Substantial      Partial        Negligible        Not Applicable
(V)             (VI)               )()
Macro-economic policies            0                 l              a                 Cl
Sectoral policies                                                    l El  E          a
Financial objectives               0               El                El               El
Institutional development            l             El               El                El
Physical objectives                Dl              El                El               0
Poverty alleviation                El                                                 E E
Gender issues                        l                                                E E  l
Other social objectives            ClEl                              El 
Enviromnental objectives             l             E                IA                E1
Public sector management                           EEl                                El
Private sector development         E                                 El               E
B. Project Sustainability          Probable                Improbable                 Uncertain
(1)                       (1)                       (1)
C. Bank performance                satasf iory             Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
(/1)                     (1)                       (1)
Identification                    E                         0                         El
Support for preparation           E                        E                         IA
Appraisal                         E                         E                         0
Supervision                       E                        0                          E
D. Borrower performance              Hi hIv
s ao peesaicory         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
(i/)                     (1)                       (1)
El                       0E
E. Assessment of results             Hi hi
satisa-iry     Satisfactoy         Fair              Poor



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                                  10
Table 2. World Bank Loans/IDA Credits
Preceding this operation
Structural Adjustment   To support the second phase of   FY87           Closed
Credit               the  economic  and  financial
(Cr. 1812-MAU)        recovery program for the 1985-88
period.
Agricultural Sector   To extend the agricultural sector  FY90           Closed
Adjustment and        reforms begun under Cr. 1812;
Investment Project   test new irrigation techniques; and
(Cr. 2093-MAU)        strengthen the management of
cooperative perimeters
Public Enterprise     To  support the  Government's      FY90           Closed
Sector Adjustment    restructuring program for public
Program or PESAP      enterprises
(Cr. 2166-MAU)
Public Enterprise     To support implementation of the   FY90          Ongoing
Sector Institutional  PESAP
Development and
Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 2167-
MAU)
Following this operation
Capacity Building     To support implementation of the   FY95          Ongoing
Project for           PSDC and strengthen institutional
Development of the    capacities  for  private  sector
Private Sector        development
(Cr. 2730-MAU)
Public Resource       To      improve      economic      FY96          Ongoing
Management Credit    management capacity  and the
(Cr. 2887-MAU)        efficiency  of  allocation  and
management      of     public
expenditures



1I                                                                           Statistical Annexes
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle      D)ate planned    |  -   late actual
Identification (EPS)         Feb. 1993            Oct. 28-Nov. 21, 1992
Preparation                  July 1994                 1993-1994
Appraisal                    Jan. 1995               Jan. 8-21, 1995
Negotiations                 Apr. 1995               Apr. 19-25, 1995
Letters of Development Policy   Apr. 1995             Apr. 30, 1995
Board presentation           May 1995                 May 23, 1995
Signing                      ---                      June 22, 1995
Effectiveness                June 1995                 Sep. 9, 1995
First tranche release        June 1995                 Sep. 9, 1995
Second tranche release       March 1996               May 23, 1996
Third tranche release        March 1997               Mar. 30, 1997
Project completion           June 1997                Aug. 31, 1997
Credit closing               December 1997             Oct. 8, 1997
Table 4. Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY95         FY96          FY97
Appraisal Estimate             13.6         22.9          30.0
Actual 1/                        0          23.2          30.7
Actual as % of Appraisal         0           106           103
Date of final disbursement                            April 4, 1997
I/Includes a SDR 500, 000 supplemental credit from the IDA Reflow Facility
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation progress was measured in terms of fulfillment of tranche release
conditionalities. These are included in Table 10 (Status of Legal Covenants).



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                                                       12
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
A. Impr;vem  t  of Foreigii Ehn  an Ta  Regime
*   Continuation of agreed policy on exchange rates     Implemented under PFP agreements.
*   Unification of exchange rates                       Free market for foreign currency banknotes and
travelers cheques created. Unified market-determined
exchange rate effective since December 1995.
*   Completion of debt buy-back operation               Successfully completed.
*   Submission of time table for elimination of arrears of  Commercial banks have eliminated all arrears.
commercial banks to foreign correspondents
n-t-ce,tiv Strctre for Privat  ei' Activities
*   Revision of investment and commercial codes, business    An action plan has been prepared regarding revision of
law, and overall judiciary framework               the commercial code and civil and commercial
procedures, and a detailed list of legal texts to be
modified has been prepared. Implementation of the plan
is underway.
*   Launching of training program for magistrates and   Underway.
auxiliaries
*   Preparation of users' manual for electronic indexing of    Underway
laws
*   Establishment of tax-free regime and adoption of    In planning stage
necessary legislation
*   Adoption of action plan for reorganizing accounting and   Underway
auditing profession and definition of requirements for
strengthening the profession
*   Revision of accounting plan and preparation of manual of  Underway
accounting procedures
*   Upgrading of accounting profession through adoption of   Adopted by decrees No.97.018 and 97.009 issued on
standards                                          Feb. 10, 1997
*   Development and implementation of training programs    Training programs are being prepared and will be
for accountants and auditors                        implemented in 1998.
*   Adoption of new statute for Chamber of Commerce     New statute drafted but not enacted due to continuing
(CCIA) to become private sector interlocutor        disputes over autonomy of CCIA.
C. Consolidation of Restructuring of Banking Sector and Strengthening of Financial Sector Regulations
*   Adoption by National Assembly of new banking law    New banking law was adopted in June 1995.
*   Adherence of commercial banks to prudential regulation    Ratios indicating compliance with prudential norms by
commercial banks have been submitted.
*   Application of new procedures for credit risk and arrears  Implemented
information systems
*   Recovery of bad loans held by ARCB                  ARCB has recovered a total of 1.508 billion UM in bad
loans since 1995
*   Maintenance of satisfactory macro-financial policy  Satisfactory policy maintained, within successive PFPs.
framework
*   Regular issue of Treasury instruments               Central Bank is issuing treasury bills through regular



13                                                                                     Statistical Annexes
Name ef indicator                          ~~~Status
auctions.
*   Adaptation of the policy on mandatory reserves and  Implemented.
phasing out of reliance on credit ceilings for each bank
*   Preparation of medium-term strategy paper for     Implemented.
development of the financial sector
[;L  De4 tftbe:F e Sector
*   Strict application of the granting of fishing authorizations  Authorizations being issued as needed.
to boats
*   Implementation of the licensing system for pelagic  Licensing system implemented.
fishing
*   Introduction, over three years, of access fees for demersal  Access fees introduced by law in 1995 and raised from
and cephalopod fishing                            2% of estimated value of production in 1995 to 8% in
1996 and 11% in 1997
*   Collection of fines levied on violators of new licensing    Done.
and access fee systems
*   Enforcement of compliance with fishing ground limits as  CNROP has not issued recommendations.
recommended by the CNROP
*   Strengthening of maritime surveillance            Surveillance strengthened with German technical
assistance.
*   Strengthening of control of fish exports          Done.
*   Strengthening of CNROP to implement five-year plan  Not implemented.
*   Publishing CNROP's scientific findings regarding  Partially implemented.
permissible annual catch
*   Restructuring and strengthening of the Ministry of  To be undertaken under the Public Resource
Fisheries and Maritime Economy                    Management Credit 2887-MAU.
*   Application of European sanitary and quality standards    Operational.
for export of fishing products
*   Implementation of the privatization/liquidation plan for    The State's interest in ALMAP was sold to KAIC (a
Govt. joint ventures (ALMAP and MAUSOV)           Kuwait/Algeria company) who now manages the
company and that in MAUSOV was sold to private
Mauritanian interests for 120 m UM.
*   Creation of an economic interest group (GIE) composed   GIE created and operational
of producers-exporters of pelagic products with 35%
Govt. participation
*   Creation of a GIE composed of producers-exporters of    GIE created and operational.
fresh, salted and dried fish products, with 35% Govt.
participation
*   Gradual liberalization of the marketing of processed  Done.
demersal fish
F. Development of the Mining Sector
*   Formulation of a medium-term strategy for development   A letter of development policy and strategy for the
of the mining sector                              mining sector and an index of amendments to the
mining code was issued on March 6, 1997.
*   Revision of the mining taxation system            To be developed and implemented
*   Revision and implementation of regulatory procedures  To be developed and implemented
*   Definition and implementation of revised procedures for   To be developed and implemented
mining cadastre



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                                 14
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Studies supporting the PSDC were carried out under the Capacity Building Project for the
Development of the Private Sector (Cr. 2730-AMIU). Information on these studies will be
provided in that project's completion report.
Table 8A. Project Costs
FNot applicable. The credit was used to reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange costs of generalI
imports, excluding goods financed by other bilateral or multilateral agencies, and goods
specifically prohibited on a negative list.
Table 8B. Project Financing
IDA                           30                        30.7
Govt. of Japan                30                        30
TOTAL                         60                        60.7
I/Includes supplemental credit of SDR 0.5 million from the IDA Reflow Facility
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable    |



15                                                                                                                              Statistical Annexes
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
_.-
=      m     l          1~~~ 7 Dat.77  j  "Da77v 
DCA       Section   Monitoring     C     Continuous       N/A      (a) The Borrower and IDA shall from time to time exchange views on
3.01                                                   progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Sched.  3 to the DCA.                                              _________________.
Monitoring     C     Continuous       N/A      (b) The Borrower shall furnish to IDA for review and comment reports on
progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
Monitoring    NYD   After final     Expected   (e) The Borrower shall exchange views with IDA on any proposed action to be
disbursement   Oct. 1997  taken after disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 3 to the DCA.
Section   Procurement    C     Continuous      N/A       Procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
3.02                                                   governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the DCA.
Section   Accounting    C      Continuous      N/A      (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
3.03    and auditing                                   accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Accounting    CP    Within 6          N/A      (b) The Borrower shall (i) have the records and accounts referred to in para. Cr. 2726-MAU: Final
and auditing         months after              (a) of this Section, for each fiscal year, audited in accordance with appropriate  audit report for FY97
end of FY                auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to  outstanding
IDA no later than six months after the end of each such year a certified copy
of such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information Cr. 2726-1-MAU:
concerning said records and audits as IDA shall from time to time request.  Audit Teport not yet
submitted
Accounting     C     Continuous       N/A      (c) For all expenditures with respect to withdrawals from the Credit account
and auditing                                   made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall: (i)
records and accounts of such expenditures; (ii) retain until at least one year
after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit account was made, all records evidencing such
expenditures; (iii) enable IDA's representatives to examine such records, and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audits
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such fiscal year
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                                                                                            16
Schedule   Disb. cond.    C     mid-1996      May 1996   1. The Boffower has provided evidence that, since January 1, 1995, ARCB
3, Part A.  2nd tranche                                   has recovered eight hundred million UM, in accordance with thel
implementation of its bank loan recovery program as set forth in paras. 21
and 25 of the First Policy Letter.
Disb. cond     C     mid-1996      March 1997  2. The Borrower has adopted professional standards for the auditing and  Condition waived
2nd tranche                           1996     accounting profession in accordance with the Program so as to meet the  May 10, 1996 and
objectives set forth in para. 54 of the First Policy Letter.       included as 3rd
tranche release
______________________________________________________________   conditionality
Disb. cond     C     mid-1996       May 1996   3. The Borrower has provided evidence that each commercial bank operating
2nd tranche                                    within the territory of the Borrower has met the capital adequacy requirements
specified in the Borrower's banking legislation referred to in Sect. 5.01 of the
DCA.
Disb. cond.    C     mid-1996      May 1996   4. The Borrower, in accordance with the program, has made an Offer of Sale
2nd tranche                                    of MAUSOV and ALMAP.
Disb. cond.    C     mid-1996      May 1996   5. The Borrower has raised the access charges for demersal and cephalopod
fishing to 8% of the estimated yield value so as to meet the objectives set forth
in para. 23 of the Second Policy Letter.
Schedule                                      March 1997  1. The Borrower has provided evidence that, since January 1, 1995, ARCB
3, Part B.                                                has recovered one billion five hundred million UM in accordance with the
implementation of its bank loan recovery program set forth in paras. 21 and
25 of the First Policy Letter.
March 1997  2. The Borrower has raised the access charges for demersal and cephalopod
fishing to 11% of the estimated yield value so as to meet the objectives set
forth in para. 23 of the Second policy Letter.
March 1997  3. The Borrower has submitted to Parliament for approval proposed laws, Amended
acceptable to IDA, regulating (a) the commercial code; (b) the commercial and  Jan.13, 1997:
civil procedure code; and (c) the investment code, with a view to meet the  "Borrower to submit
objectives set forth in paras. 53 and 54 of the First Policy Letter.  outline of legislation
on commercial law
and civil and
commercial
procedures"



17                                                                                                                                                StatisticalAnnexes
4f Preset    Origi         IRVise
Areement   section   ,                   stt       F       e                                            f                  e
March 1997  4. The Borrower has submitted to Parliament for approval proposed mining  Amended Jan.13,
legislation, acceptable to IDA, to regulate the Borrower's mining industry,  1997: "Borrower has
which satisfies the objectives set forth in para. 57 of the First Policy Letter.  submitted to IDA
mining sector policy
letter and index of
amendments to the
l __________   __________  ___________   ________   ____________   ___________                                                                               m ining    code"
March 1997 5. The Borrower has provided evidence, satisfactory to IDA, that each
commercial bank operating within the territory of the Borrower has met the
capital adequacy requirements specified in the Borrower's banking legislation
referred to in Section 5.01 of the DCA.
Present Status::
C       Complied with
CD      Compliance after delay
CP      Complied with partially
NC      Not Complied with
NYD    Not yet due



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                                    18
Table 11. Compliance with Operational manual Statements
Borrower Complied with all Operational Manual Statements
Table 12. Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
s/w    US$'000    s/w      US$'000    s/w      US$O000
Up to appraisal             N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A       133.8   339.0
Appraisal                   N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A        23.7    49.0
Negotiations to Board       N/A        N/A      N/A       N/A        15.1    36.8
Supervision                 33.0      78.3      32.0      77.9       34.6    83.9
Completion                   8.0      14.7      8.0       14.7        8.0    14.7
Total                       N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A       215.2   523.4
Table 13. Bank Resources - Missions
Preparation        11/92-     10        70     DC, EC, FA,       N/A            N/A         N/A
12/94                      LEG, PS, ID
Appraisal          01/95       3        24     EC, FA, LEG       N/A            N/A         N/A
Apprisal through   07/95       2        12    DC, EC             N/A             N/A        N/A
effectiveness
Supervision 1      10/95       1        14    EC                  S              S
Supervision 2      03/96      2         16    EC, LEG             S              S
Supervision 3      11/96      2         16    EC                  S              S
Final Supervision  03/97       1        7      EC                 S              S
Specialized Staff:    DC = Division Chief; EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst;
LEG = Legal Counsel; PS = Public Sector Specialist



19                                                                           Appendices
APPENDIX A
REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
CREDIT POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR PRIVE
(CR. 2726-MAU)
Aide Memoire
M. Miguel Saponara (Banque mondiale) responsable du credit d'ajustement pour le
developpement du secteur prive, a sejoumr a Nouakchott du 5 au 12 mars 1997. Son mandat etait (i)
d'evaluer l'etat d'avancement du Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur Prive (Cr. 2726-MAU), et (ii)
de faire le point sur le progres realise pour remplir les conditions de deboursement de la troisieme
tranche du credit.
La mission remercie MM. le Ministre du Plan, le Ministre des Finances, le Ministre de la
Justice et le Gouverneur de la Banque Centrale de Mauritanie, ainsi que MM. le Directeur des
Etudes et le Directeur du Contr6le des Banques, le Directeur de l'ARCB et le Directeur de l'Unite de
Coordination du Programme de Developpement du Secteur Prive pour leur accueil, leur disponibilite
et leur collaboration aux travaux de la mission.
MM. Hasan Tuluy, Directeur des Operations pour la Mauritanie, et Jean Mazurelle,
Representant R6sident de la Banque mondiale, ont egalement participe aux discussions.
Suite aux discussions que la mission a eues avec les autorites concemant la mise en oeuvre
des conditions de deboursement de la troisieme tranche du Credit 2726-MAU, il lui a ete remise
toute la documentation relative (voir matrice annexe). La mission considere que les conditions sont
remplies et confirmera ceci par fax au gouvernement mauritanien et a l'OECF des son retour 'a
Washington.
Nouakchott, le 12 mars 1997



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                                             20
Conditions du deblocage de la Troisikme tranche du Credit 2726-MAU
Conditions                                      Etat d'avancement
(mars 1997)
1. L'Emprunteur a fourni des pieces justificatives  FAIT
jugees  satisfaisantes  par l'Association  selon  Depuis mars 1996, L'ARCB a recouvre 708 millions
lesquelles, depuis le ler janvier 1995, 1'ARCB a  d'UM (annexe 1). Le montant total recouvre depuis
recouvre 1.5 milliards d'UM, conformement A la   1995 est donc egal A 1.508 UM.
mise en oeuvre de son programme de
recouvrement des creances bancaires, tel que
mentionne aux paragraphes 21 et 25 de la Premiere
Lettre de Politique.
2. L'Emprunteur a porte le droit d'acces a 11% de la  FAIT
valeur estimee de la production des redevances   L'augmnentation & 11% du droit d'acces de la peche
d'acces de la peche aux c6phalopodes et aux      aux cephalopodes et aux poissons demersaux figure
poissons demersaux, pour realiser les objectifs  dans la Loi de Finances # 97.001 du 14/1/97 (annexe
specifies au paragraphe 23 de la Deuxieme Lettre  2).
de Politique.
3. L'Emprunteur a fourni A l'Association:
(a) un plan d'action de: (i) legislation relative au:  FAIT
(A) droit commercial, et (B) code de procedure  Pour la partie (A) les documents suivants ont ete
civile et commerciale, comprenant un index      fournis: (i) analyse des l6gislations environnantes et
detaille des titres et chapitres et si necessaire, des  de la legislation nationale en matiere commerciale;
projets de textes pour realiser les objectifs    (ii) plan detaille du Code de Commerce; (iii) projet
6nonc6s aux paragraphes 53 et 54 de la Premiere  d'amendement du Code des obligations et des
Lettre de Politique; et (ii) liste detaillee de textes  contrats; et (iv) liste de textes a abroger ou a
legislatifs a abroger ou modifier;             modifier (annexe 3.1). Pour la partie (B), la mission
a recu un projet de revision du Code des Procedures
Civiles, Commerciales et Administratives (annexe
3.2).
(b) un decret approuve par l'Emprunteur, juge      FAIT
satisfaisant par l'Association, etablissant un  Decret No. 97.016 en date du 15.2.97 (annexe 3.4).
guichet unique pour les investisseurs;
(c) des decrets ou projets de lois approuves par   FAIT
I'Emprunteur,   juges    satisfaisants   par    Projet de lois approuve par le Conseil des Ministres
I'Association, relatifs aux: (i) statut des notaires;    et soumis A l'Assemblee Nationale (annexe 3.5).
(ii) statut des huissiers; et (iii) statut des experts
de justice; et
(d) des pieces justificatives jugees satisfaisantes par  FAIT.
I'Association selon lesquelles l'Emprunteur a  Lettre du S.G. de l'ONU du 18.2.97 (annexe 3.3).
ratifie la Convention de New York de 1958
relative a l'Arbitrage International.



21                                                                                       Appendices
Conditions du deblocage de la Troisieme tranche du Credit 2726-MAU
Conditions                                      Etat d'avancement
(mars 1997)
4. L'Emprunteur a fourni a l'Association: (i) une  FAIT
Lettre de Politique et de strategie et un plan minier,  La mission a recue une Lettre de Politique Miniere
jugee acceptable par I'Association; et (ii) un index  datee du 6.3.97 et signee conjointement par MM. les
d'amendement du code minier; en vue de reformer  Ministres du Plan et des Mines (annexe 4).
l'industrie miniere de l'Emprunteur et de realiser
les objectifs enonces dans: (A) ladite Lettre et (B)
au paragraphe 57 de la Premiere Lettre de
Politique.
5. L'Emprunteur a fourni les pieces justificatives,  FAIT
jugees satisfaisantes par l'Association, selon   Les  ratios  montrant le  respect des normes
lesquelles le niveau de fonds propres de chaque  prudentielles par les banques commerciales ont ete
banque commerciale implantee dans le territoire de  fournis (annexe 5).
I'Emprunteur est celui requis par la legislation
bancaire de l'Emprunteur visee A la Section 5.01
de l'Accord de Credit de D6veloppement.
6. L'Emprunteur   a   adopte   des   normes        FAIT
professionnelles  d'audit  et  de  comptabilite  D6crets Nos. 97.018 et 97.009 du 10.2.97 (annexe
confonmdment au Programme afm de realiser les    6).
objectifs vises au paragraphe 54 de la Premiere
Lettre de Politique.



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                              22
APPENDIX B
(Translation)
CENTRAL BANK OF MAURITANIA
DIRECTORATE OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS SECTION
RE:  Preparation of Implementation Completion Report
The Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania is engaged in a wide-ranging
structural adjustment program with support from donors in general and the World Bank in particular.
Since 1992, this has had a very significant impact on the country's stabilization and adjustment
programs, as the Bank's periodic missions have had the opportunity of observing.
To support this program, Mauritania entered into a Structural Adjustment Credit Agreement
with the World Bank in 1995 (No. 2726-MAU), the purpose of which was to develop the private
sector.
A.    OBJECTIVES
Among other objectives, the Agreement was intended to change the legal and regulatory
framework so as to ensure that the private sector would assume a leading role in the national
economy. At the same time, the financial, private, and fishing sectors were to be strengthened and
upgraded.
(a)    The objectives were as follows:
* Adopting banking legislation;
* recovering ARCB loans;
* establishing professional auditing and accounting standards;
* establishing the capital adequacy of banks;
* issuing invitations to bid on the sale of MAUSOV and ALMAP;
* establishing access rights at 8% and, subsequently, 11%;
*  preparing proposals for the Commercial Code, the Code of Civil and
Commercial procedure, and the Investment Code;
*  preparing the Mining Code.



23                                                                        Appendices
Some of these objectives were well-conceived, and achieving them did not pose any special
problems.
All the conditions for the withdrawal of the various tranches were met.
Nevertheless, the lessons learned in attempting to meet the conditions for two of the above
components (the legal and institutional framework and the Mining Code) showed that the
complexity of such reforms required that they be spread over a period longer than that originally
planned.
For this reason, we have cooperated with the Bank in preparing an action plan that will
enable us to implement these reforms in a transparent manner and within an acceptable time frame
that is consistent with the actual institutional circumstances.
For example, difficulties arose under Credit Agreement No. 2725-MAU with regard to the
proposals contained in the matrix that you forwarded to us.
These measures will enable us to request disbursements to help us achieve the balance-of-
payments and public-finance objectives approved by the World Bank, without jeopardizing the
progress made with macroeconomic stabilization; consequently, we are more determined than ever
to implement these reforms, which will most certainly help promote the development of the private
sector to an even greater degree.
The Borrower has provided documentary evidence acceptable to the Association
demonstrating that ARCB properly implemented its debt-recovery program, as indicated in the first
Letter of Development Policy.
The Borrower also set access rights for cephalopod and demersal fishing at 11% of the
estimated value of production, as a means of achieving the objectives defined in the second Letter of
Development Policy, and submitted to Parliament the following pieces of draft legislation, which the
Association had found acceptable:
I.    The Commercial Code.
II.    The Code of Civil and Commercial Procedure.
III.   The Investment Code, as a means of achieving the objectives set out in the Letter of
Development Policy. Implementation of this component was considerably delayed
for a number of reasons.
B.    DELAYS IN THE SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS
The call for bids for the preparation of the new Commercial Code was issued in December
1995, and the Government had received four bids by February 1996. It evaluated these on two
occasions, and forwarded the evaluation reports to the Association in May and November 1996,
respectively.



ICR Private Sector Development Credit                                             24
The Association found neither of these reports acceptable, because the Contracts Committee
had not understood either the basic objectives of the planned reforms (i.e. to prepare new
commercial legislation providing for -- among other things -- the effective participation of
Mauritanian lawyers), or the methods by which the bidders' qualifications were to be evaluated.
C.    THE NEED TO COORDINATE THE REVISION OF THE INVESTMENT CODE WITH
TAX AND TRADE (i.e. TARIFF) REFORM
The Investment Code will be revised upon completion of the tax and tariff reforms (currently
being prepared as part of the economic management project).
The new taxes imposed on enterprises will provide tax incentives for investors, and will
therefore be an important component in the new Investment Code.
D.    THE PERIODS ORIGINALLY SPECIFIED WERE UNREALISTIC
The period originally allowed (18 months) for preparing and implementing three important
sets of legal reforms (the Commercial Code, the Code of Civil and Commercial Procedure, and the
Investment Code), and requiring the effective participation of all beneficiaries (i.e. the Government,
the Civil Service, lawyers, the business community, and civil society), was unrealistic and should
have been longer.
Nevertheless, the Government has maintained and confirmed its commitment to modernizing
the country's commercial legislation and improving the business environment. It has begun to revise
the Codes in question, but is applying a more realistic schedule consisting of the following stages:
(a)   Preparing a detailed plan for processing the proposed pieces of legislation.
(b)   Drafting the proposed legislation.
(c)   Ascertaining that the drafts are internally and externally consistent; this is to be
followed by their adoption by the Government and submission to Parliament. More
immediately, the Government also intends to liberalize the legal profession, and the
changes will affect notaries, clerks of courts, bailiffs (huissiers), and similar
specialists who have an important role to play in making the judicial system more
effective and credible.
The Government has also decided to ratify international agreements on commercial
litigation, so as to align Mauritanian commercial law with international standards and increase legal
safeguards for investors.
In addition, and until the tariff and tax reforms can be completed, the Government has begun
to reform the non-tax incentive system in order to simplify the administrative procedures applicable
to enterprises (by establishing a "one-stop window"). The reforms will make it possible to define the
new tax incentives to be offered to investors, together with the tariff exemptions for exporters (under
a system of free areas), and the new Investment Code.



25                                                                       Appendices
Implementation of these reforms will be monitored within the framework of the project for
capacity building in the private sector (which was approved at the same time as the Private Sector
Development Project) and the policy framework paper (PFP).
The supervision mission and the Government have agreed on a work program for immediate
action, as well as an implementation schedule, to ensure compliance with these conditions.
THE MINING CODE
Implementation of this component was considerably delayed by time overruns affecting the
selection of a consultant to assist the Government in reforming the mining sector.
The invitation to bid was issued in 1996. By May 1996, four bids had been received, and
these were evaluated in July 1996.
In July 1996, the Association had issued a "no objection" to the report on bid evaluations;
nevertheless, it was not until November 1996 that the draft contract negotiated between the
Government and the consultant (BUGECO) was approved by the Contracts Committee and
forwarded to the Association. It was intended that BUGECO should begin its activities in December
1996.
The Government has maintained, and reasserted, its commitment to reforming the mining
sector. It has undertaken to implement the necessary reforms in accordance with the work program
agreed with the consultant and approved by the Association.
This program is to last about 18 months, and consists of the following stages:
(i)   Preparation of the letter of development policy and strategy for the mining sector;
(ii)  revision of mining legislation;
(iii)  institutional reforms and strengthening of the framework in which the mining
industry is to operate.
Implementation of the mining plan will be monitored within the framework of the project for
capacity building in the private sector and the policy framework paper (PFP).
The supervision mission and the Government agreed on a detailed action plan and
implementation schedule, so as to ensure compliance with these new conditions.
CONCLUSION
Overall, cooperation between the government officials concerned with project
implementation and the Bank has been satisfactory. Nevertheless, experience has shown that the
original schedule for the reforms was too constrained. In future, it would be appropriate to set more
realistic time frames, and make administrative procedures more flexible.






MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 25935
1   . .   ....   .--                                   7 ____             -- ---         N.
18                 16'                  ,4b                  h2"                 10oa                    SpA o    s^DZnish T -r   ALGERIA
:                                 k            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Otc2a  /$aharal |   |\.
MAURITANIA
3Qn  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iMAURITANIA
_ 30o                                                                                      /     30'-         -Nouakchot:
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                  M A L I
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                          /      ,      , _Nemr .  Tomctoj
TRACKS                                                                            Dak             --ENEG    - - -
,SENEGAL,  ~        z      NIGER
-i---i--s- RAILROADS                                                                                                                 Y AM8A- ,B
o     SELECTED TOWNS                                                                      GUO RAO CGUINEA-        /Ouaog do;  a.
BISSAU  ,GIE
o  REGION CAPITALSMOR0CC0Cnk>.\                                                                             TDVOR          %
2Ba                  AIRPORTS                                                    R     C    O    28-   _____ _k___ ____ _____ _IVO     __RE _ ____
PORTS                                              - - -                                8         The-bound-ries, 
Th cotn olors-1, denoosinations
--   REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                    To Tindouf    andanyotherin,ama,, shonon
INTERNATIONAL                    K                                              k                 this msp d. ot inply,pi on the pet of
BOUNDARIES  ~ ~ ~~/Th. World Bank G-op, a,ny j.dgrn-t
BOUNDARi ES   /-                                                                                on the legal sta tus of a ny territory, or
'N   ay en~dorement -orcceptance of
such boundaries
0        100       200      300
26'      i         I7 -- - -                                                                                                 ALGERIA    26'-
KilOM^ETERS           g                         !                    f  Ain BenTili
g                   | +          Hf/~It                                     ChegaN
To La'You                                                          90
A       i f     C    Ic n tiBr Mogreo                                                                                    ,.n
I FORMER    j  4                                     R                              I
(3e eaAn           <  ~~~~~~S PA NISH   j  tTIRIS,  
240                                     S                          .'               ZEMMOUR                                                     24'-
24    SAHARA    I
Zouhrat 
Fdert              - 
2Tourine               .     ,'                    !
22,'             /                                                                         -'22'-
Nouadhibou* -  is   '              = -   em      it         ; Co                                                /
Ia Gouers                                                ,AK_Ouadane                                        /
Atay* .                  A D R A R/
DAKHLE~T   /                                                                                    / A /ADRAR!i~
-200 NQUADHIBNOL/;  I N C H I               -     l     9hinguetti
20-  INCHI RII       "  I                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'-
'/y,         Ak1Kujt              00u1eff\,
Nou8mgh&r/e             .-                           '                        / 
74 $-o   L   .t                       X HODH ECH \
- -TAGANT                         /
Ac  i/'      ,iAgsI T Thmaoso'             ; ISid1ikia              TictTt     /     CHARGUI             j
-180        NOUAKCHOTT                 R             .C                                          0----,--/  -                                   18'
.Cangar'afcs.~MuIr                                                 .0uIt
Boui irehot                                            H
S-LOUZS      =m~~csnosoa1                                                         S /S da Amouno|        X
<-             ~~~SENEGAL               Gary OSM  A LbI
:   '-S   ,#                         t)       n~~~~~~~~ITmcek~t'
-1418   % 1 j60 .~>  14               1I <-?               l jOn                 8'                   6 EBRUARY 14'/
FERUR  169



