Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
CX-;2 72 4 - 8S99e
Report No.P-6574-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 19.3 MILLION (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
APRIL 26, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
USS1.00=UM 125
UM 1 million = USS8,000
SDR 1 = USS1.558
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) =3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi.)
1 metric ton (t) = 2.205 pounds (lb.)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACRONYMS
ALMAP          Socite de Peche Mauritano-A lgerie
ARCB           Agence de Recouvrement des Creances Bancaires
BALM           Banque Libyenne Mauritanienne
BAMIIS         Banque al-Baraka Mauritanienne Islamique
B3MA           Banque Internationale pour la Mauritanie
BMCI           Banque Mauritanienne pour le Commerce et lI'ndustrie
BMDC           Ban que Mauritanienne du Developpement et du Commerce
BNM            Banque Nationale Mauritanienne
CBC            Capacity Building Credit
CCIA           Chambre de Commerce, d'Industrie et d'Agriculture
CGEM           Confederation Generale des Employeurs Mauritaniens
CNROP          Centre Nationale de Recherche Oceanographique et de Peche
CSA            Commissariat de la Securite Alimentaire
FND            Fonds N'ational de Developpement
GOM            Government of Mauritania
GIE            Groupement d 'Interets Economiques
NASR           National Insurance Company
MAUSOV         Societe de Peche Mauritano-Russe
PESAP          Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
SONADER        Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
SMB            Sociefe Mauritanienne de Banques
SMCP           SocietJ Mauritanienne pour la Commercialisation de la Peche
SNIM           SocieJe Nationale Indusirielle et Miniere
UBD            Union de Banques de D&veloppement
UNCACEM        Union de Cooperatives pour le Developpement Rural



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Contents
CREDIT SUMMARY ..............................................................i
PART 1.  BACKGROUND .............................................................1I
PART II. MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ...............5
A. Economic Performance and Recent Economic Developments .................................................5
B. Exte nal F        inancing Requirenents ..............................................................6
PART m. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA ......................................................7
PART IV. THE PRIVATE SECTOR ............................................................. .9
A. Public and Private Sector Interface .............................................................  10
B. Policy Framework .............................................................                10
C. Key ssues ..............................                                                        11
PART V. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ................................                                       13
PART VI. FISHING AND MINING SECTORS ................................ 15
A. Fishing Sector ................................                                                15
B. Mining Sor ................................                                                    18
PART VII.THE PROPOSED CREDIT ................................      .                                19
A. The Policy Reform Progrm ................................ 20
B. Credit features ................................                                              27
C. Agreenents Reached and Conditionality ................................                        29
D. Credit Benefits and Risks ................................ 31
PART VIII. RECOMMENDATION ................................ 33
This operation was prepared by a team comprising Hisham El-Naggar (Financial Economist and Task
Manager, FSIE), Fredricka Santos (Economist, AF51E), Noel Tshiani (Financial Specialist, AF51E),
Susana Hristodoulakis (Operational Analyst, AF5EE); Anne-Marie Chidzero (PSD), Angela Walker (PSD),
Patrice Bmand (Consultant), Miguel Saponara (Economist, AF5CO), Hovsep Melkonian (LOAAF), Bernard
Abeille (AF5DR), Hanz Wabnitz (Senior Legal Counsel, LEGAF) and Sara Gonzalez Flavdl (Legal
Consel, LEGAF). Michael SaTris (AF3IE) is the Peer Reviewer. Celine Gavach provided secretarial
support Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Ms. Silvia Sagari are respectively the Department Director and the
Managing Division Chief for the operation. Mr. Frangois Laporte is the Lead Economist
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
Annex I     Policy matrix
Annex 2     Letters of Sector Development Policy
Annex 3     Key Indicators
Annex 4     Mauritania's Relations with the IMF
Annex 5     Status of Bank Group operations in Mauritania
Annex 6     Timetable of Key Processing Events



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUIMMARY
Borrower:   Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiaries: The Government of Mauritania (GOM) and the financial and private sectors
Arnount:     IDA Credit: SDR 19.3 million (US$30 million)
Terms:       IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Prograr      The overall objective of the proposed credit is to support the structural
Description:  measures needed to accelerate the development of the private sector,
strengthen the financial sector, and promote growth notably in two sector
where private sector activity is promising: fishing and mining. The credit will
support a program of policy reforms which are necessary for establishing an
environment conducive to supply-response and self-sustained growth of the
private sector. The measures included in the reform program are an essential
part of the reforms agreed upon with the Bank and the IMF in October 1994.
The reform program includes: (i) unification of foreign exchange rates; (ii)
strengthening the legal and judiciary environment through, inter alia, the
revision of legal codes pertaining to business and the training ofjudges and
lawyers; (iii) reorganizing the accounting and audit profession, strengthening
the minimum requirements for qualification and revising the accounting plan;
(iv) empowering the Chamber of Commerce and strengthening it so it can
represent private sector interests (including small and medium enterprises) vis-
i-vis the authorities and help provide needed services; (v) adopting and
continuously enforcing new Banking Law to ensure sound banking practices
are applied; (vi) continuing the recovery of bad loans to which title has passed
to the State; (vii) continuing the regular issue of Treasury bills and the
movement to indirect instruments of monetary control; (viii) formulation of a
strategy for the second phase of financial sector development; (ix)
strengthening surveillance of fishing activities, including monitoring of export
operations, and collecting fines from violators; (x) strengthening supervisory
and research institutions in the fishing sector; (xi) disengaging the State from
production and marketing of fishing activities; and (xii) strengthening the
framework for mining sector development, including the revision of the
mining code and taxation applied to mining, reorganization and strengthening
of supervisory and regulatory institutions, and revision of cadastral
procedures.
Bernefit:    The focus in the Credit, as well as in the parallel CBP, is on: (i) helping to
generate a supply response in the form of increased private sector investment



..
which would translate into growth and employment generation; (ii) promoting
better govemance and institution building, including a regulatory framework
that is both transparent and uniformly applied; (iii) contributing to improved
quality of financial intermediation and enhancing access to finance for small
businesses, including many operated by women; (iv) fostering increased
output and export revenues in the fishing sector, while at the same ensuring
conservation of resources in this area; and (v) promoting exploration,
extraction and export of mineral resources. The Credit wiD help promote a
policy environment favorable to the development of the private sector, and
will support a stronger and more efficient financial sector, both at the level of
the monetary and regulatory authorities and the commercial banks. It will
also help promote improved access to credit by operators in the private sector
currently denied such access (through the upgrading of credit information
systems), and improved and more transparent procedures in the financial
sector to ensure accountability and better supervision.
Rislcs:      The foreseeable risks affecting the success of the proposed reform program
are that, given the political nature of the problems of the banking sector (the
key banks are controlled by powerful families), the GOM may opt for an
interpretation of prudential regulations, such as -capital adequacy) which may
prove inconsistent with adequate procedures. We believe, however, that prior
agreement with the Government on procedures and on principles to be
adopted will ensure the regulatory framework for the financial sector will be
enforced in strict conformity with international standards. Furthermore, the
involvement of the Govemment, the management of the banks and the private
sector in various program components is expected to enhance the sense of
ownership, crucial for project success. Finally, the credit conditionality
institutes a close follow-up by IDA of the performance of the banks and of
Central Bank supervision thereof
Rate of      Not Applicable
Return:
Povertr      Not Applicable
Category:
Appraisal    Not Applicable
ReRort:
Estimated    - SDR 8.9 million equivalent would begin to be disbursed upon credit
Disbursements: effectiveness;
- SDR 5.2 mnilion equivalent would begin to be disbursed upon satisfaction of
the conditions for the release of the second tranche;
- SDR 5.2 million equivalent would begin to be disbursed upon satisfaction of
the conditions for the release of the third tranche.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PART I. BACKGROUND
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for SDR 19.3 million, the
equivalent of about US$30 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40
years, to help support the structural adjustment program of the Government of Mauritania
(GOM), with particular focus on the private sector.
2.    Since 1986, the GOM has been implementing structural reforms aimed at redressing
macro-economic imbalances, liberalizing the econornic system and establishing conditions for
sustained growth. These reforms have been supported by a structural adjustment credit and
two sectoral adjustment credits. Following a brief interruption in the early 1990s, the GOM
has resumed its adjustment program in close collaboration with the Fund and IDA. The
ongoing program, detailed in the Sixth Year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which was
approved by IDA and the IMF in January 1995, is supported by a second-round IMF
Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) for the amount of SDR 42.5 million.
3.    The proposed Private Sector Development Credit (henceforth 'the Credit') will help
marshal donor resources in support of specific policy and regulatory reforms aimed at
alleviating constraints which impede private sector development, consolidating the
rehabilitation of the financial sector, and promoting private sector growth particularly in the
most promising sectors, namely mining and fishing. The program supported by the Credit
reflects the priorities established in the Country Assistance Strategy in the area of private
sector development, strengthening of the financial sector and poverty alleviation. In addition,
a Capacity Building Project (henceforth "the CBP") which is being presented to the Board at
the same time as this credit, will finance a program to build institutional capacity to implement
these reforms, foster improved performance and competitiveness of private enterprises, and
promote an improved quality of services in the now largely privatized banking sector.
4.    The policy reforms supported by the Credit are spelled out in the Letters of
Development Policy (the first for Private Sector Development in general, and the second for
Fishing Sector Development in particular) which appear in Annex 2. The first letter builds on
the strategy for the private and financial sectors presented by the GOM at a Consultative



2
Group meeting which took place in Paris in May 1994. These reforms, which have been
discussed with the managers of commercial banks and representative operators, both large and
small, from the private sector, are consistent with the medium-term adjustment objectives of
the GOM as expressed in the Sixth Year Policy Framework Paper. Agreement on reforms
concerning the private sector were preceded by agreement on the scope of studies
investigating specific problems faced by the sector and discussions following from the results
of the studies. Agreement on the salient issues concerning the banking sector has been
reached with the GOM in the context of discussions with IDA aimed at evaluating the
restructuring of the banking sector which occurred in 1993 and outlining a strategy for the
development of the private sector. The second letter summarized agreements reached on the
fishing sector in the course of a donors' meeting held in Nouadhibou in September 1994,
during which the GOM produced a sectoral development policy paper supported by the donor
community. Agreement on mining issues was reached in the course of discussions held with
the GOM in January 1995.
5.    Past Experience and Evolution of Dialogue with the Government of Mauritania.
Since the late 1980s, private sector development has been the focus of the GOM's strategy
for boosting economic growth and generating employment. As the GOMs stabilization
strategy since 1987 necessitated the reduction of resources devoted to the public sector, the
need to rely on the private sector to serve as an engine of growth becarne manifest.
Assistance from the Bank for identifying the problems constraining private sector
development amd formulating a strategy for alleviating them began in 1993, in the wake of a
FLAS (Foreign Investment Advisory Services) study which identified several pre- and post-
investment obstacles to private sector operations. During 1993, Bank staff had extensive
discussions with government officials, representatives of the private sector and individual
entrepreneurs, with a view to exploring ways to bring about an environment more favorable to
private investment. This resulted in the formulation of terms of reference for studies in the
specific areas of. support structures for the private sector, the legal and regulatory framework
for private sector operations, and the feasibility of an export processing/tax-free zone in
Nouadhibou. These studies have been completed and their conclusions and recommendations
have been incorporated in the program supported by the Credit.
6.    Private sector access to credit has been recognized by the GOM as a major factor in
ensuring the growth of the private sector. As a result, the condition of the financial sector
and the quality of its services have been another major area of concern since the late 1980s.
The first restructuring of the banking sector took place in 1988-90, under a structural
adjustment credit (SAC) signed in June 1987 (credits IDA Cr. 1812-MAU and SFA
Cr. A-028-MAU) totaling US$42.4 million. While substantive progress was achieved in the
legal and administrative areas as wel as in the restructuring of the banking system, the
implementation of agreed banking regulation, and the recovery of bad debts lagged.
Meanwhile, the privatization of the restructured banks proved more complicated than
expected. This is acknowledged in the February 1990 PCR assessing the credit, which takes
note of the difficulties the GOM encountered in interesting foreign banks in the privatization
of two of the commercial banks.



3
7.    Intensive dialogue with the Bank and the Fund on the need to close the ailing
development bank and complete the privatization of the troubled Banque Nationale
Mauritanienne (BNM) continued in the context of the dialogue on the 1992 PFP. In February
1993, the privatization of BNM was completed, as was the privatization of aDl other
commercial banks but one. (See para. 46.) World Bank staff continued to monitor
developments in the sector and informally agreed with the authorities on a one-year plan to
ensure the consolidation of the restructuring process, which was closely adhered to by the
authorities. In the course of several missions in 1993 and early 1994, the Bank continued to
discuss with government officials ihe extent of the problems of the sector and possible
strategies for remedying said problems. Discussions also included representatives of the
management of the existing commercial banks, as well as current and prospective private
sector bank clients. In 1993, the banks' owners began the process of recapitalizing their
banks so as to comply with capital adequacy requirement. This process was completed by
end-1994. In July 1993, within the framework of budgetary constraints agreed with the IMF,
the GOM finally closed the state-owned development bank (LJBD or Union de Banques de
Developpement).
8.    The fishing sector has been another key area of concern for the authorities, as well as
the focus of discussions with the Bank for several years. Since 1988, the sector has been in
deep crisis, owing to overfishing, excessive government interference (particularly in
marketing) and the decline of most prices. Since 1991, the Bank has conducted a dialogue
with the GOM on fish resource management, privatization of the company charged with
marketing (SMCP, Sociexe Mauritanienne pour la Commercialisation de la Peche) and
substituting the export tax system with an auctioned license system. A sector review mission
took place in October 1991, resulting in a Green Cover Report in December 1992. Dialogue
with the Bank and other donors intensified in the course of 1993 and 1994, particularly in the
context of PFP discussions for both years. The report, which was released as Grey Cover
Report No. 10975-MAU in April 1994 provides a detailed analysis of the problems facing the
sector, and makes several policy recommendations. The September 1994 donors' meeting on
fisheries has resulted in the GOM adopting a far-reaching and coherent strategy for the
development of the sector. This strategy was further refined and expanded during the
October 1994 PFP discussions with the authorities.
9.    Mining is another sector on which the authorities have concentrated their efforts.
Iron production remains a key source of foreign exchange and budgetary revenues. In
addition, private investors (most of them foreign) have expressed interest in exploring for gold
and other non-ferrous metals. Given the success of many countries in the region in attracting
investors in the mining sector, the authorities have been acutely aware that development of the
sector in Mauritania's case has been delayed by a regulatory framework that lacks
transparency and is less than investor-friendly, and the lack of geological data. Although the
Bank has been involved in supporting the iron mining sector for a long time, notably in the
context of the PESECAL which devoted considerable resources to SNIM (Societe Nationale
Industrielle etMiniere), dialogue on non-ferrous mining activities did not begin in earnest
until 1994. The key areas requiring technical support and the major policy reforms necessary
to attract private investment have been identified jointly with the authorities, on the basis of



4
consultation with potential investors (some of them active in neighboring countries) and with
officials at the Direction des Mines.
10.   Lessons Learned. The lessons learned from past Bank operations in Mauritania
include the following:
(a)   The importance of involving small and medium enterprises in dialogue with the
authorities and to find mechanisms to provide them with support. The
program supported by the Credit places particular emphasis on ensuring
representation of small and medium private enterprises in the policy dialogue
with the authorities (in particular, through the rejuvenated Chamber of
Commerce) and on sensitizing commercial banks to their credit needs and their
potential as customers through exposure to credit evaluation techniques for
smaller enterprises.
(b)   The need to reduce the cost of excessive red tape, ambiguous laws and less
than transparent legal procedures. Studies have demonstrated that these can
increase the cost of doing business by as much as 30 percent. A major element
in the program supported by the Credit is the reform of the regulatory, legal
and judiciary framework, through the revision of codes applying to business,
the training of judges and court officials and the electronic indexation of laws
to ensure accessibility.
(c)   The importance of full rehabilitation of banks' balance sheets in a bank
restructuring operation and continued follow-up of bank performance
thereafter. In the program supported by the Credit, close scrutiny has been
applied to the process of bank restructuring to ensure that full rehabilitation of
the banks' balance sheets has taken place. Also, emphasis was placed on the
strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for banks,
providing training for bank personnel to ensure improved service, and
involving local banks in the search for efficient mechanisms for financing
medium- and long-term lending;
(d)   The need to emphasize the strengthening of local research capabilities in the
fishing sector, as well as the use of a transparent system of access fees applied
to fishing resources, a strong supervisory capability coupled with an ability to
apply sanctions to violators, and an institutional framework in which the GOM
is involved as a regulator and not as an agent of production or marketing. The
absence of these elements has proved to be a major stumbling block to sector
reform in the past. The program supported by the Credit incorporates the
above-said elements in the GOM's strategy for policy reform.
(e)   The importance of making officials involved in regulating the mining sector
more aware of private investors' concerns and of up-to-date developments in
regulating mining worldwide. Also important is improving the quality of
geological data and strengthening the regulatory framework while making it



5
more transparent. These lessons have guided the dialogue between the Bank
and the authorities and have been accepted by both sides as pivotal building
blocks for the program of policy reforms aimed at promoting private sector
growth.
PART II. MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS
A. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
11.   For most of the 1970s and until the mid-i 980s, Mauritania's economic development
has been uneven and marked by major imbalances. While exogenous factors contributed
significantly to the deterioration of the country's economic and financial situation, their impact
was aggravated by weak economic management. During this period, the GOM embarked on
a large public investment program financed almost entirely through external borrowing. The
program channeled resources toward low-yielding projects which led to a large external debt
and heavy debt service burden. Domestic demand was sustained by excessive growth of
public expenditures, which in turn contributed to large balance of payments deficits. Price
distortions and the regulated market for agricultural and industrial products discouraged the
development of private activities. Poorly managed, over-equipped and over-staffed public
enterprises became increasingly inefficient and accumulated heavy financial losses.
12.   From 1986 to 1991, the GOM carried out a number of important structural reforms.
In particular, the GOM pursued a far-reaching price and trade liberalization policy. Import
licenses were abolished and petroleum product marketing and urban transportation were
deregulated. Seven nonviable public enterprises were closed, others were reorganized, and
the rice monopoly granted to the import-export agency (SONIMEX) was eliminated. The
GOM also privatized all rice mills as well as the marketing of grain products. The private
sector rapidly replaced the public sector in land development (increasing the productivity of
agricultural terrain through investment), agricultural production and marketing activities. In
1990, 1991 and part of 1992, however, the economy experienced a series of exogenous
shocks which had an adverse impact on the economic and financial situation. Against this
background, the GOM resumed negotiations with the IMF and the World Bank which made it
possible for an agreement to be reached on a Fourth Year PFP in late 1992.
13.   Recent Developments. Since October 1992, most of the regulations which restrict
competition in the financial sector have been abolished and the GOM has implemented all of
the monetary, credit, pricing, bank-ing, trade, interest rate and exchange rate measures agreed
under the Fourth Year PFP to achieve long-term macro-economic stability. In October 1992,
the GOM devalued the ouguiya by 27 percent against the US dollar, thus largely restoring
extemal competitiveness. Since then, the relative stability of domestic prices has allowed
gains in competitiveness to be maintained. This was accompanied by far-reaching reforms
which substantially improved the climate for private sector activities. Measures liberalizing



6
the exchange system were implemented and restrictive features (export authorizations,
preferential exchange rate for the transfers of Mauritanian workers abroad, restrictions on
transactions in the free market for foreign bank notes and travelers' checks) were eliminated.
A system of auctions for import authorizations was introduced in January 1993 and was
extended to all imports except petroleum and those by the fisheries sector (both still allocated
by the Central Bank at that point) and SNIM which, under a separate convention, disposes
freely of the free exchange earned on its exports. In addition, most macro-economic targets
have been met: consumer prices have stabilized and the goal of limiting inflation in 1993 to
less than 13 percent was achieved (inflation in 1993 in fact stood at 10 percent despite the
devaluation which occurred in October 1992, while in the 1994 inflation stood at 3.8 percent).
GDP grew by 1.7 percent in 1992 and 4.5 percent in 1993-1994. Nevertheless, external
imbalances have widened due to the significantly lower prices of Mauritania's two major
exports, iron ore and fisheries products (the latter has begun recovering of late), in
international markets, as well as a higher debt service on external debt resulting from rising
interest rates.
14.   In October 1994, the GOM negotiated the Sixth Year PFP covering the period 1994-
97. The main medium-term objectives of the PFP are the attainment by 1996 of sustainable
GDP growth (4.4 percent), the containment of inflation (at about 3 percent a year), and the
narrowing of the current account deficit (excluding official transfers) from 14.2 percent of
GDP in 1994 to 6.4 percent of GDP by 1997. To achieve these objectives, the GOM adopted
a strategy aimed at: (a) strengthening external competitiveness and reducing domestic
absorption; (b) consolidating structural reform by encouraging private sector initiatives
through the provision of adequate price incentives, reliance on market forces, and the
liberalization of the legislative and regulatory framework; and (c) seeking external debt relief
and reforming the domestic banking sector. Notwithstanding significant growth potential
given the importance and diversity of Mauritania's fishing grounds and newly discovered iron
ore deposits, the medium-term development outlook remains fragile.
B. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
15.   Given the current situation Mauritania is facing, its balance of payments will continue
to register large external imbalances over the medium term. Weaker than expected prices for
iron ore and fisheries products are expected to limit the growth of export receipts to an annual
rate of about 4 percent during 1994-97. The completion of large investment projects in iron
ore mining and the implementation of restrictive fiscal and monetary policies in the past two
years, which will help reduce domestic expenditure, are expected to lower imports by 4
percent in 1995, though imports should resume growth in 1996-1997. With continued
application of restrictive fiscal and monetary policies, a strong emphasis on export promotion
as well as debt relief (see below), it is estimated that the current account deficit (excluding
official transfers) should narrow from 14.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6.4 percent of GDP in
1997.
16.   The residual financing gap for 1995 is projected at SDR 129.6 million (US$202
million) and at SDR 64 million (US$100 million) for both 1996 and 1997. It will be financed



7
with Fund resources, balance of payments support from other sources (including tranches
released under the Credit and a debt buyback operation at a substantial discount financed by
IDA), or further rescheduling by bilateral creditors that could be obtained as of 1995. Japan
and Germany have also expressed interest, in the SPA context, in providing financial support
for the 1995-97 period.
PART III. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
17.   Past and Future Lending Operations. The cumulative Bank Group's commitments
to Mauritania, as of January 31, 1995, amounted to US$503 million for 42 operations
comprising: 37 IDA credits - including 28 closed (US$213 million) and 9 ongoing operations
(US$130 million); two IFC investments (US$14.1 million); and 3 Bank credits (US$146
million). The 37 IDA credits totaled US$343 million and included six adjustment operations
(SAC, AGSECAL, PESECAL and three IDA-reflow operations), six agricultural, seven
infrastructure, four education, one health, two industry, six technical assistance, two IDF
grants, one petroleum exploration and two capacity building operations. The IBRD loans
were for iron ore mining operations (US$66 million in 1960 and US$60 million in 1979 to
SNIM for the Guelbs Iron Ore project, and US$20 million for SNIM's rehabilitation in 1985).
IFC has financed two investments in Mauritania, a copper mining project in FY88 and a gold
mining joint venture in 1991.
18.   For the period FY95-97, IDA's proposed lending program consists of seven
operations for about US$164 million including this proposed credit and the CBP, two
agriculture operations, an Education Sector Restructuring operation, and a Decentralization
and Urban Development project. In addition, IDA is planning to support the OMVS
(Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur dufleuve SnWgaO) regional power development
project, which is of great relevance to Mauritania given the importance of the Senegal River in
irrigated agriculture in the South.
19.   Overall Strategy and Linkages. Since 1985, when the GOM instituted its economic
recovery plan, a main focus of IDA's country assistance strategy has been to support the
GOM's adjustment efforts. Following the SAC operation in 1987, the most severe economic
imbalances have been eased and Mauritania has undergone a shift toward a more market-
oriented economy, with less GOM intervention and a significant increase in private sector
activity. For the coming years, the Bank's assistance strategy for Mauritania will continue to
support this evolution towards increased private sector-based economic growth and greater
efficiency in the management of public resources, including continued strengthening of policy
formulation and implementation capabilities. Two primary focuses of this strategy will be to
further the private and financial sector reforms and to assist the GOM to undertake the
restructuring of the fisheries sector. The Bank is also supporting long-term development by
assisting the GOM to formulate a national population policy with a view toward containing
population growth, to accelerate the development of human resources, to reduce absolute
poverty, and to address environmental issues.



8
20.  In the area of private sector development, the Credit will aim at strengthening the
framework for private sector incentives, including urgently required financial/banking sector
reforms. The CBP will be aimed at private sector institutions, including the financial sector,
mining and fishing. In addition, a Construction Capacity Development project (FY93) is
being implemented to foster private sector development by applying private sector
management practices to the rehabilitation works of public infrastructure. In parallel, IDA
will continue to support through its ongoing operations, improvements in the efficiency of
public sector resources management. An Economic Management and Capacity Building
Sector Adjustment operation is planned for FY96. It will extend the process of structural
reforms and will assist the GOM in strengthening its economic management and governance
capacity, and improving the institutional efficiency of its public sector apparatus.
21.  In the agriculture sector, IDA's strategy involves support for: (i) policy and
institutional reform aimed at diversifying production and increasing productivity, (ii)
expansion of irrigation schemes and extension, research and training (iii) encouragement of
pnvate sector participation; and (iv) attention to environmental protection issues and resource
management. An AGSECAL, approved in February 1990, is supporting continued efforts in
the key areas of liberalization of cereals marketing and pricing policy, land tenure and
institutional strengthening. These activities complement efforts under four other ongoing
agriculture projects. An Agricultural Services Project was approved in FY94 while a Private
Sector Irrigation Project is scheduled for FY96 and a Natural Resource Management Project
is planned for FY97. Aware of the environmental problems that are slowing economic
development and preventing progress in many areas essential to income growth and poverty
reduction, the GOM has identified a range of issues such as the management of renewable and
nonrenewable resources, population growth, desertificafion and deforestation. Together with
the GOM, the Bank prepared a Country Environmental Strategy Paper in June 1994. It is
intended to provide a contribution to the GOMs ongoing environmental policy-making
process and to stimulate a broader and more intensive debate on environmental priorities and
actions with the GOM and its donor partners.
22.  In the area of human resource development where the greatest scope exists for
poverty-oriented actions, the first Education Sector Restructuring Project, approved in 1988,
is helping to expand access to and improve the quality of primary education. A
TechnicaVVocational project (FY93) is promoting cost-effective use of sector resources and
encouraging public policies to balance outputs from the secondary and higher educational
cycles with labor market demand.- To complement the above actions, IDA is planning a
Second Education Restructuring project in FY95, which will aim at the reform of secondary
and higher education. A Health/Population project (FY92) is assisting the GOM to improve
delivery of basic health and family planning services, and to articulate an action- oriented
population policy.
23.   With regard to the infrastructure sector, the Bank's recent interventions consisted of:
(i) highlighting, within the PER and PFP discussions, the priority of maintenance expenditures
over new investments; and (ii) funding of a Water Supply project (FY92) for Nouakchott, the
capital city, and a Construction Capacity project (FY93) aimed at fostering private sector



9
development by applying private sector management practices to the rehabilitation works of
public infrastructure. In addition, a Decentralization and Urban Development project is
planned for FY96.
24.   Aid Coordination. Raising the efficiency of Mauritania's investment requires the
joint efforts of the GOM and the international community. A partnership is essential to
ensuring timely and full implementation of the reforms. The number and diversity of external
assistance received by Mauritania are unique among countries of its population size. The
country's external public debt is held by several govemnments and institutions. Nearly all of
Mauritania's principal creditors/donors have engaged in cofinancing-financing operations in
the country in recent years.
25.   Mauritania's dependence on substantial inflows of concessional extemal assistance will
persist for the foreseeable future. To maximize efficiency in the application of this assistance,
aid coordination will have to ensure that the public investment program is sound, that donors
support the policy reform program, and that appropriate levels of financing are available for
both investment and adjustment.
26.   A Consultative Group meeting took place in May 1994. The donors pledged about
US$235 million over the next two years to support the country's economic reforms. Donors
and the GOM agreed on the need to strengthen aid coordination in fight of the large role
external financing plays in the public investment program. The group set tentative plans for
consultative meetings every two or three years, and for the adoption of new coordination
measures to include systematic information sharing and periodic reviews of the public
investment program.
PART IV. THE PRIVATE SECTOR
27.   Despite limited opportunities for private sector growth and the strong role played by
the public sector through the 1970s and early 1980s, the Mauritanian private sector has
always been dynamic. This stems in part from the commercial traditions prevalent in
Mauritania's trade-oriented society, evidenced by Mauritanians' active involvement in
international trade in the West Afiican. It is estimated that the private sector accounts for
about 75 percent of total officially registered employment. Both the formal and inforrnal
private sectors are active in rural as well as urban areas.
28.   The formal private sector is dominated by a few large enterprises involved in trade,
fisheries, agriculture and some manufacturing, which own substantial assets. Consequently,
they have little difficulty in obtaining financing for their operations, both from Mauritanian and
foreign banks.
29.   At the other end of the spectrum, there is a large informal sector, consisting primarily
of individually or family-owned enterprises. The informal sector is estimated to employ, at a
minimum, about one third of the economically active labor force. It is likely to remain the



10
main outlet for entrants to the labor market. About 85 percent of small businesses are
oriented toward petty commerce (selling food and clothing) and services (laundry and
hairdressing). Only 10 percent are in construction, and about 4 percent engage in light
manufacturing. The fastest growing area of employment is services and commerce, with
growth rates in excess of 15 percent in recent years.
30.   Small operators in the informal sector typically have very limited access to bank credit,
because they have a limited range of assets to use as collateral, cannot provide accurate
financial information regarding their operations, or are intimidated by formal financial
institutions. Women are quite active as owners of private businesses (often no more than a
stall in the marketplace), but evidence suggests that women's access to credit is typically
through their husbands. Informal operators are believed to rely on informal credit circuits.
These usually involve closed groups (the family, the guild or the clan) which are able to
minimize the cost of obtaining information about the borrower, but which are also believed to
charge extremely high interest rates.
A. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTOR INTERFACE
31.   A major drain on the economy has been the poor performance of the public sector. In
1989, the public sector included 80 public enterprises (PEs), 22 of which were of non-
commercial nature. The remaining PEs -40 of these were majority owned by the GOM --
were involved in economic sectors and accounted for more than half of public investment,
receiving almost one-fifth of the credit disbursed through the domestic banking sector. In
1989, twelve enterprises dominated the PE sector, accounting for over 95 percent of sales and
about 75 percent of employment. Overall performance, reflecting largely the performance of
these twelve enterprises, was mostly poor, with high losses, mounting arrears, a rising debt
burden, increasing illiquidity and reliance on monopoly privileges.
32.   Given the continued financial disequilibria in the PE sector, the GOM formulated in
1989 a Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP). The effort under the PESAP
was successful in bringing about an ambitious rationalization of the PE sector which as of
today has resulted in: (a) the liquidation of fifteen PEs, including one large manufacturing
firm; (b) the privatization, or initiation of the process for the privatization, of 15 PEs,
including the large stevedoring activity at the Port of Nouakchott; (c) the elimination of the
state monopoly in the insurance sector and for the import of sugar, tea and rice; and (d) the
settling of all major government debt and arrears to PEs, which included honoring the GOM's
obligation to pay its share capital due to key enterprises. Emphasis was placed on maximizing
the autonomy and enhancing the efficiency of those enterprises which remained public, while
resources were shifted away from the public sector as a whole, leaving the private sector as
the most promising vehicle for promoting growth and employment creation.
B. POLICY FRAMEWORK
33.   The GOM's strategy for promoting growth of private sector activities has pursued the
following priorities: (i) a transparent and legally secure framework for transactions; (ii)



11
nonintrusive, efficient and respected public administration; (iii) competitive markets that
promote factor and product mobility; and (iv) efficient and responsive social, physical and
technological infrastructure. Priorities (i) and (iii) were pursued under the first stage of
liberalization measures; (ii) is a key focus of the parallel CBP and other donor-assisted
programs; while (iv) is now a key element in the GOMs evaluation of its Public Investment
Program in concert with the donor community.
34.   Compared to the preadjustment period, the economy is now less regulated and more
market-oriented. Through the privatization program and other measures, the GOM has sought
to promote the efficiency of the parapublic sector. All quantitative import restrictions and
price controls have been removed, and prices are now allowed to move freely with supply and
demand. Import tariffs have been lowered and rationalized; corporate and personal income
tax systems have been simplified and rates reduced. The GOM has reduced its role in
employment and wage setting, and has taken the first steps toward modernizing the
investment code. Its presence in agriculture has been decreased by privatizing the marketing
of coarse grains and reducing the roles of the government-owned SONADER (Societe
Nationale pour le Developpement Rural) and CSA (Commissariat a' la Securite Alimentaire)
enjoying a monopoly in this area, in the context of a program supported by an AGSECAL
approved in February 1990. In addition, an Agricultural Services Project approved in FY94
supported the extension of the liberalization of cereals marketing and price policy, new
reforms designed to improve land tenure legislation and administration, and improved public
sector effectiveness in the area of agriculture by restructuring SONADER.
35.   Apart from macro-econornic stability, the major focus of reforms undertaken in the
period 1992-1994 to stimulate private sector activities has been the incentive structure,
notably the trade and foreign exchange regimes. To facilitate the transition to a unified
system, a number of intermediate steps have been taken since 1992, notably the elimination of
the export licensing system and the preferential foreign exchange rate given to Mauritanians
resident abroad. A bidding system for import licenses was introduced in February 1993 and
has since been expanded to cover 60 of total import operations. The percentage of foreign
exchange to which exporters have access has been steadily increased. The authorities' goal is
to complete the transition to a unified exchange rate system by end-1995.
C. KEY ISSUES
1.    Foreign Exchange System
36. Despite substantial and relatively rapid liberalization of foreign exchange operations,
the continued existence of some foreign exchange controls continued to distort the incentive
and foster a gap between official and parallel exchange rates. The maintenance of an official
(more favorable) exchange rate applicable to certain transactions and a parallel one and the
persistence of the gap between them make it make it difficult to point with certainty to a
market-determined foreign exchange rate. The elimination of this distortion can only be
completed when the authorities' goal of unifying exchange rates is completed by end- 1995.



12
2.    The Regulatory Framework for Private Sector Activities
37.   The importance of the regulatory framework to the development of private sector
activities has been observed in numerous studies. In Mauritania's case, weaknesses in the
regulatory framework were identified in a FIAS study as one of the most important
constraints inhibiting investment.
38.   The Regulations Applying to Investment. Despite the reform of the investment
code undertaken in 1989, private entrepreneurs agree that there are persistent problems which
the revised code has not adequately addressed. The current investment code appears to
discourage foreign competition against established local companies. Complex red tape and
costly procedures complicate entry of a new firm into the local market. Among the serious
gaps in the legislation are the absence of a adequate bankruptcy law.
39.   The Legal Framework of the Private Sector. The legal framework covering private
sector activities in Mauritania is at times ambiguous. Many laws are derived from old French
codes which have since been amended or, at timnes, exhaustively revised in France itself.
Information about legal changes is transmitted through the Journal Officiel, which.is
published irregularly and is not complemented with law reports. This results in reduced
transparency and inconsistent treatment of business operators by the legal authorities. There
is a pressing need to classify existing laws and identify the laws applicable to specific business
areas. Equally needed is the regulation of legal arbitration, which is lacking at present but
which is imperative in view of the preference foreign businesses manifest for legal arbitration,
given the ambiguity of the legal framework and the inadequate implementation of the law.
40.   Implementation of the Law. Another problem stems from the poor state of the
judicial system. The lack of institutional and human resources, the dual training of magistrates
(a result of the coexistence of both a modem and a traditional legal system) make the recourse
to the courts costly and unreliable. Lengthy delays, uncertainty of enforcement of court
decisions and the proliferation of dubious "expert witnesses" who are richly remunerated
characterize the judicial infrastructure. This has tended to weaken the judiciary system and to
diminish confidence in it, even where businessmen agree that adequate legislation has been
adopted.
3.    The Lack of Adequate Support Services for the Private Sector
41.   The lack of vehicles to proffer support services needed by private operators, notably
small and medium entrepreneurs, has seriously hindered the scope of their activities.
Furthermore, there is no universally accepted representative structure that can represent the
views of the private sector to the authorities or to donors. The CCIA (Chwnbre de
Commerce, d'Industrie et d'Agriculture) is a logical conduit for support to the sector and
notably to smaDl and medium enterprises, following the model applied successfilly in other
French-speaking countries, but it will require institutional strengthening so as to become
credible with private operators. The CGEM (ConfgeWration Generale des Employeurs
Mauritaniens), while much better organized, is dominated by large-scale entrepreneurs and



13
will continue to be viewed as such by most small- and medium-scale ones, suggesting a limited
potential for acting as a truly representative agency.
4.    Accounting and Auditing Framework
42.   The inadequacy of the accounting and auditing framework is another problem which
has increased the uncertainty in which private investors operate in Mauritania. Given the lax
standards defining the minimum requirements for qualifying as an accountant or an auditor,
the validity of accounts and audits is often dubious. Furthermore, the organization of the
accounting and auditing professions is less than optimal, resulting in a weak espnt de corps
which has discouraged the basic self-regulation commonly practiced by both professions
elsewhere. The plan comptable (accounting plan) is likewise antiquated, having been
inherited from the colonial times. Being based on a French code which has since been vastly
upgraded in France itself, it cannot be said to be in conformity with international standards.
PART V. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
43.   The Mauritanian financial sector consists of four commercial banks, an insurance
company (National Insurance Company, NASR), the social security system and a cooperative
agricultural credit facility (UNCACEM, or Union de Cooperatives Agricoles, de Credit et
d'Fpargne Mutuelle). At present, the only institutions which can be said to act as full
financial intermediaries, channeling resources between sectors, are the commercial banks.
During the first banking sector restructuring which was carried out between 1988 and 1990 as
part of the SAC, the number of banks operating in Mauritania was reduced from 7 to 5, with
two, SMB (Societe Mauritanienne de Banques), and BIMA (Banque Internationale pour la
Mauritanie), merging to form BNM (Banque Nationale Mauritanienne); BMDC (Banque
Mauritanienne du Diveloppement et du Commerce), and FND (Fonds National pour le
Developpement), merged to form UBD (Union de Banques de Developpement); and the
remaining banks (BMCI, Banque Mauritanienne pour le Commerce et l'Industrie; BAMIS,
Banque al-Baraka Mauritanienne Islamique; and BALM Banque Libyenne Mauritanienne)
were reorganized. The portfolio of bad debts totaling UM 14 billion (US$112 million) for the
entire banking systern was transferred (against government bonds) from the books of the
commercial banks to a special account. Commercial banks were asked to recover the bad
loans on the GOM's behalf for an 8 percent collection fee. All commercial banks were
recapitalized and an attempt was made to clean up their loan portfolio. The restructuring
operation was among the components supported by a structural adjustment credit of US$42.4
million.
44.   The first restructuring operation did not, however, bring an end to the problems of the
banking sector. The performance of the sector continued to be compromised by inadequate
management, improper application of credit procedures, generally weak bank supervision, an
inadequate legal and judicial framework which complicated loan collection, and government
intervention in the banking sector. (The GOM was a majority shareholder in the development



14
bank, and maintained a major stake in the commercial banking system.) In 1992, the
authorities decided that a second, more radical overhaul of the system was needed. (See para.
7.) IDA's assistance was solicited, but IDA made clear that a prerequisite for any intervention
on its part would be upfront action and the demonstration of the political will to reform the
sector.
45.   The GOM thus proceeded, in consultation with IDA, to do the following: (i)
conducting of bank audits according to terms of reference prepared by the Bank; (ii) full
provisioning of the banks' bad loans and obligatory recapitalization of all banks; (iii)
strengthening of the bank regulatory framework and its enforcement through strong support
from the IMF and the assistance from IDA through a grant from its Institutional Development
Fund; (iv) establishment of a recovery program for bad loans transferred to the ARCB
(Agence de Recouvrement des Creances Bancaires); the target for 1994 (UM 600 million)
agreed with IDA has been fully met.
46.   Detailed audits of the banks' financial situation as of June 30, 1993 (completed in
December 1993 following terms of reference prepared by IDA) indicated that the four
commercial banks had a total of UM 35,661 million (US$285 million) in assets, UM 17,997
million (US$144 million) in deposits, UM 31,338 million (US$251 million) in loans. Bad
loans on that date were estimated at UM 18,840 million (US$ 151 million, or 60.1 percent of
total loans). Subsequently, the capital of BAMIS was increased from UM 2 billion (US$16
million) to UM 3 billion (US$24 million); the capital of Chinguitty Bank (formerly BALM)
was raised by UM 1,480 million (US$12 million) and has been 66 percent paid in, with the
remainder paid in 1994; the capital of BNM was also increased from UM 500 million (US$4
million) to UM 1.5 billion (US$12 million) the increment being paid half in 1993 and the
remainder in 1994. At present BMCI, BNM and BAMIS are 100 percent privately owned;
Chinguitty Bank is 49 percent owned by the Libyan Bank for Foreign Trade (itself 100
percent owned by the Libyan Government), with the remaining shares in the hands of the
GOM.
47.   More recent audits of the four banks mentioned above have been completed for their
financial situation as of December 31, 1993. The results suggest that, following substantial
recapitalization by shareholders as well as the assumption by the State of certain losses due
to mandatory provisioning of bad loans, all banks met the capital adequacy ratio (8 percent of
assets) mandated by law. The recapitalization made by shareholders totaled UM 4.55 billion
(US$36.4 million) for all four commercial banks. The losses assumed by the State totaled
UM 4.0 billion (US$32 million), of which UM 1.0 billion (US$8 million) represented payment
of guarantees on non-performing public sector (PE) loans, and UM 700 million (US$5.6
million) the State's share in the recapitalization of Chinguitty Bank, the only bank in which the
State remains a partner. As a result of a portfolio transfer from BNM to the State (included in
the UM 4.0 billion cost mentioned above), the State inherited UM 2.3 billion (US$18.4
million) of nonperforming loans. These loans were transferred to the care of the ARCB, in
addition to UBD loans which were also transferred to ARCB following the closure of UBD.
48.   To summarize progress in the area of restructuring the banking sector, the following
has already been or is soon to be completed: (i) links between the banks and loss-makers have



15
already been severed, with the rehabilitation of the banks' portfolios, the strict enforcement of
prudential regulations (including provisioning guidelines), and the imminent (end-1995)
improvement of credit risk and arrears information systems; (ii) banks, now fuDly privatized,
have an incentive to recover the part of their portfolio consisting of loans for which provisions
have been made, and indeed are reported to be recovering at a rapid rate, while the authorities
have put in place a recovery plan aimed at coDlecting roughly 20 percent of the bad loans held
by the ARCB (about average for sub-Saharan African countries which have undergone similar
restructuring); (iii) the possibility of further state intervention in the banking sector has been
excluded, as the authorities have privatized or liquidated state banks (except for Chinguitty
Bank) and furthermore have asserted, and reiterated in the latest PFP, their intention not to
divert funds to the banks; (iv) the bank supervisory and regulatory framework has been
significantly strengthened; (v) increased competition between banks has been encouraged
through the progressive liberalization of interest rates and more liberal (though still prudent)
entry and exit rules specified in the Banking Law which will be submitted to the Assembly for
approval in June 1995; (vi) schemes to increase access to credit by small borrowers are being
explored in the context of the preparation of the strategy of the second phase of financial
sector development (formulation of which is financed by the parallel CBP) will specificaDly aim
at developing mutualist and other semiformal schemes to achieve this objective (see para. 77);
(vii) a far-reaching debt recovery law has been promulgated and work on reforming the
overall legal and judiciary framework has been initiated; and (viii) the first step toward the
development of money markets has been taken through the issue of T-bills and government
intervention on the market to ensure sufficient liquidity, with further steps anticipated under
the second phase of sectoral development discussed (see para. 77); this will make it possible
to switch from direct to indirect instruments of monetary control.
PART VI. FISHING AND MINING SECTORS
A. FISHING SECTOR
49.    Fisheries activity in Mauritania grew remarkably over 1984-86 when catches
increased from 286,000 mt to 591,000 mt -- a compound rate of about 44 percent per annum.
(Note that catch and landing totals do not correspond, as substantial quantities of fish
transshipped at sea are not counted as landings.) But in 1987 the total catch began to decline,
from an estimated 563,000 mt in 1987 to 446,000 mt in 1991. This was largely the result of
overfishing causing a depletion of fishing stocks, which arose inadequate control and
surveillance. Even with this decline, Mauritania's fishing activity is one of the largest in the
sub-region. Until 1988, the fisheries sector in Mauritania was a dominant source of foreign
exchange and government revenue. The sector generated about US$308 million (68 percent)
of the country's total foreign exchange in 1988, falling to about US$236 million (54 percent)
in 1991. Thereafter, the sector's share of foreign exchange earnings has stabilized at slightly
over 50 percent. The fisheries sector also makes a vital contribution to the budget, yielding
about 20 percent of total budget revenues.



16
50.    During the 1980s and 1990s, the fisheries sector was expected to be a major source
of economic growth; to offer the greatest potential for increased employment and value-
added; and to be a key generator of foreign exchange earnings and budget revenue. Instead,
the fisheries sector now finds itself in a crisis, evidenced by sharply lower catch rates
(compared to earlier levels) caused by heavy overfishing and other problems. Its recent poor
performance is therefore particularly worrisome, given the implications for: lower economic
growth; diminished foreign exchange earnings; lower budget revenues with substantially
increased outstanding (and probably uncollectible) debts due to the banking sector.
51.     By the late 1980s, it was clear that the fishing sector was facing major problems.
These could be summarized as follows: insufficient resources for national research to
determine the extent of overfishing, need for conservation measures, etc.; persistence of
problems of transparency and efficiency in the allocation of fishing licenses; an inadequate
regulatory framework for resource management, resulting in overfishing and dangerous
depletion of precious fishing resources in certain areas; and an inefficient institutional
framework in which the GOM was involved as a producer and a marketing agent for fishing
products.
52.     The CNROP (Centre National de Recherches Oceanographiques et de Peche) has
been the major research institution devoted to follow-up of fishing stocks, biological
equilibrium in fishing zones and the appropriate level of fishing that would ensure maximum
exploitation consistent with renewal. The CNROP suffered from inadequate resources, a
limited ability to disseminate information and limited impact of policy decisions concerning the
sector.
53.    The problems of transparency and efficiency in the allocation of fishing licenses were
related to the arbitrary manner in which said licenses have sometimes been granted, the
relative lack of information about what licenses were granted to whom, and the fact that
licenses are granted to individuals rather than to boats. This resulted in instances of
considerable overfishing by individual licensees, and occasionally inadequate standards of
storage on some boats (among them a few which would not pass inspection if the boats
themselves were being licensed). The latter led to a few instances of Mauritanian fishing
stocks being denied entry into foreign ports, with obvious negative implications for the
country's reputation in this area. The allocation of licenses has momentous implications for
the development of artisanal fishing, which has to compete with industrial fishing operators for
the same grounds. As artisanal fishing is a promising area for employment creation, fair
access to fishing resources is a crucial consideration.
54.     The lack of an adequate regulatory and supervisory framework was a serious
constraint, as it led to numerous violations going unpunished. The lack of control contributed
to overfishing by private sector operators, ecologically dangerous practices, inadequate
standards and huge capital flight through unreported export operations. The latter not only
harmed the Mauritanian economy, but has also contributed to the ill-health of the financial
sector, as certain borrowers in the fishing industry defaulted on loans while channeling
revenues elsewhere.



17
55.    Finally, while private sector activities dominate the fishing sector, the GOM's
involvement in certain areas of production and in the marketing of fishing products has
resulted in instances of inefficiency, inadequate investment and decision-making determined by
non-market-based criteria. The GOM's involvement in production and marketing was
essentially through: (a) a number ofjoint-venture companies; and (b) the Marketing Monopoly
Board (SMCP).
56.    The joint venture companies comprised three categories: public companies formed
with the participation of other States (the two largest being Societe de Peche Mauritano-
Russe, MAUSOV, with the Commonwealth of Independent States, acting a successor to the
former Soviet Union, and Societe de Peche Mauritano-Algerie, ALMAP, with Algeria);
companies owned by the Mauritanian State in association with private Mauritanian
entrepreneurs as well as foreign interests, and companies owned by Mauritanian citizens and
foreign interests. As a rule, most such companies have suffered substantial financial losses,
the biggest loss-makers being MAUSOV and ALMAP. Although the joint-venture companies
have to be 51 percent Mauritanian-owned, foreign citizens control a large part of management
and technical activities. Furthermore, as the centrally planned economies to which
Mauritania's partners typically belonged moved to restructure their enterprises and rationalize
use of resources, Mauritania was forced to contemplate the prospect of assuming full
responsibility for these companies (in the near-future), with little or no prospect of continued
direct and indirect state subsidies from the partners in question.
57.   The GOM is involved in the marketing of fishing products through SMCP, set up in
1984 by decree and given the monopoly for marketing fish that boats were obligated to land in
Nouadhibou. The creation of SMCP was inspired by the GOM's concern about increasing the
efficiency of marketing and its need to control the payment of export taxes on fisheries and the
repatriation of foreign exchange earnings. Over time, however, SMCP became overstaffed
and inefficient and its financial transactions devoid of any transparency. Moreover, in spite of
its position, its net profits kept declining, resulting in a loss in 1991.
58.    Policy Reforms Carried Out. In the closing months of 1994, the GOM had carried
out the following: (i) adoption of an action plan in concertation with the donor community
stemming from the policy parameters defined at the Nouadhibou meeting; (ii) presentation of
a plan for the divestiture of ALMAP and MAUSOV; (iii) reduction of the GOM's stake in
SMCP to 35 percent; (iv) approval of a maritime code laying the foundations of a transparent
and well-defined regulatory framework; (v) adoption of an action plan for the strengthening of
the CNROP (with technical support from the donor community) and the setting in motion of
its application; (vi) creation of a Maritime Surveilance Authority with budgetary resources to
ensure surveillance, supported through donor capacity building programs; (vii) imposition and
enforcement of absolute compliance with fishing ground limits and restrictions on fishing
equipment and motors as recommended by the CNROP; (viii) permanent closure of Zone A of
the Banc d'Arguin and the implementation of regulations for Zones B and C, the
aforementioned zones having been identified by the CNROP as having been dangerously
overfished; (ix) establishment of a committee to award licenses for pelagic fishing, according
to clearly defined and transparent criteria; (x) strict application of the granting of fishing



18
authorizations to boats; and (xi) restructuring and strengthening of the Ministry of Fisheries
with donor support.
B. MING SECTOR
59.     Another focus of private sector activity is mining. Mining represents an estimated
12 percent of Mauritania's GDP and 38 percent of its exports. A major part of the production
is represented by iron ore that, with billions of tons of mineral reserves, will remain a major
force in the next decades. The key actor in this area is SNIM, in which the GOM has a
majority stake but which is run autonomously. In addition, potential investors have expressed
interest in searching for gold and non-ferrous metals. They have, however, been hindered by
lack of geological data and incomplete mining legislation that introduces uncertainty and
negotiating delays.
60.     Several mineral zones have been identified in Mauritania, notably for gold and
copper. Nonetheless, given the constraints noted above, the intervention of prospective
investors remains limited. It is, in fact, extremely difficult to speak of development of the
mining sector in the near-complete absence of data, basic geological maps, a transparent
mining code or a tax structure that is competitive with other countries in the region. Investor
interest is stimulated by the fact that numerous finds have been reported, and successfully
exploited, in neighboring countries (notably Ghana and Mali).
61.     Given the preponderance of iron ore and the need to concentrate on ensuring the
smooth functioning of SNIM as an autonomous company yielding the lion's share of the
country's export earnings, it is only recently that the GOM has directed its attention to the
non-ferrous mining sector. Discussions between the Bank and the authorities have focused on
a capacity building program for the sector, financed by the CBP which is being presented to
the Board at the same time as this credit. Meanwhile, the authorities have adopted an action
plan for the development of the sector, in concertation with the Bank. The plan covers the
identification of key areas for further dialogue, the reorganization of the Direction des Mines,
the revision of the mining code and the tax code for mining activities, and the training of
government staff in order to enhance regulatory capabilities and ensure greater sensitivity to
the needs of private investors.



19
PART VII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
62.     Objectives. The overall objective of the Credit is to support the GOM in promoting
private sector development. Support for the development of private enterprises is aimed at
the legal/institutional level, the consolidation of financial sector reform so as to help
ensure better service and improved private sector access to credit, and, more specifically, at
two crucial sectors where private activity has considerable scope for expanding: fishing and
mining.
63.     The matrix of proposed policy measures is detailed in Annex 1. The policy reform
program supported by the Credit aims specifically at: (i) improvement of incentive structure of
private sector activities through reforming of the legal, regulatory and judicial environment
governing private sector activities and empowerment of the CCIA to support private sector
initiative; (ii) improvement of foreign exchange and trade framework for private sector
development through further liberalization of the foreign exchange system, and exploring the
feasibility of and mechanisms for setting up a tax-free regime; (iii) consolidation of the
restructuring of the banking sector, including the recovery of bad debts, ensuring that banks
are adequately recapitalized, and strengthening and enforcing bank regulations; (iv)
development of financial markets and institutions, through the establishment of a full-fledged
interbank money market and the formulation of a medium-term strategy for the second phase
of financial sector development; (v) carrying out the reform policies agreed with the donor
community to develop the fishing sector; and (vi) reviewing the incentive structure for the
mining sector, with a view toward encouraging private sector investment in the sector. The
program, based on policy objectives and priorities defined in the 1994-97 Policy Framework
Paper, and restated and refined in the May 1994 Paris Consultative Group Meeting, has been
the object of close coordination with IDA, which helped ensure consistency with the
objectives of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy and Poverty Reduction Strategy (see paras. 4
and 85), as well as with the Fund, to ensure consistency with macro-economic stabilization
targets.
64.     Parallel to the Credit, a Capacity Building Project (CBP) is being submitted to the
Board, consisting of training programs and specialized services to strengthen institutional
capacity in pursuit of the following objectives: (i) updating and upgrading the centralized
credit information system (Centrale des risques) and the centralized database on arrears
(Centrale des impayes); (ii) promoting a better quality of bank services, greater efficiency of
intermediation and greater private sector access to credit through training programs in key
areas; (iii) formulating a strategy for the second phase of the development of the financial
sector (see para. 77); (iv) improving the accounting and auditing framework; (v) reforming the
legal and regulatory framework governing private sector activities, with a special emphasis on
increasing legal security through improving the judicial infrastructure; (vi) empowering the
CCIA to represent the private sector and to offer a substantial range of support services to
private enterprises; (vii) investigating the desirability of and, if the option is found to be
desirable, undertaking the necessary legal, administrative and other measures for the
establishment of tax-free regimes (pointsfrancs); (viii) establishing an internationally
competitive legal, regulatory and tax environment necessary to promote private investment in



20
the mining sector, and strengthening institutions responsible for supervising the sector,
upgrading and disseminating the geological database, and administering the laws and
regulations pertaining to the sector; and (ix) a study leading to the establishment of a
monitoring system for the fishing sector, including a monitoring mechanism for foreign
exchange flows resulting from imports and exports by the sector.
A. THE POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
1.   Improving the Exchange and Trade Regime to Develop the Private Sector
65.   Present Situation and Recent Developments. Reform of the foreign exchange and
trade regime has been a key element in the GOM's strategy to improve the incentive structure
for the private sector. In recent months, the GOM has enlarged the scope of the auction
system for import licenses and increased the percentage of foreign exchange receipts which
private exporters are allowed to retain.
66.   Since January 1, 1995, and in accordance with the agreements in the Sixth Year PFP,
the Central Bank has allowed foreign exchange offices to be set up by non-bank institutions.
At the same time, bank operations in the free market have been expanded, allowing banks to
make use of foreign exchange denominated accounts held at foreign banks to finance import
opeations.
67.   Reforms Supported by the Credit. The objective of the authorities, as stated in the
Sixth Year PFP, is to unify the exchange rate system, eliminating the inefficient multiple
exchange rate arrangement (the Central Bank's official fixed rate, the bank rate and the
paralel market rate). The authorities are already closely monitoring conditions on the paralle
market, thus ensuring a narrowing of the gap between the most preferential rate (the Central
Bank rate) and the paralel market rates. At the same time, the authorities expect to carry out
a debt buyback operation (which is expected to be presented to the Board in the near future),
to obtain debt relief from its creditors as is expected and to work toward eliminating arrears to
foreign banks in the course of 1995. This should make it possible for the GOM, folowing
consultation with the IMF, to unify the exchange rate system by December 31, 1995.
2.   Improving the Incentive Structure for the Private Sector
68.   Present Situation and Recent Developments. On the basis of studies financed by a
Japanese grant, the GOM has conducted a thorough examination of three options to improve
the regulatory framework and support structure for the private sector. These are: (i) reform
of the legal and judiciary framework; (ii) offering tax advantages to exporters; and (iii)
designating an agency to provide support to the private sector and to act as the sector's
spokesperson in the dialogue with the GOM.
69.   The study dealing with the legal and judiciary framework confirmed the conclusion,
already put forward by the FIAS study, that the legal and judiciary framework is not inductive
to investment. Accordingly, the GOM has worked with IDA to define a strategy for
reforming the legal system and the judiciary in order to enhance transparency, sensitize



21
officials to the needs of the private sector and increase legal security. Agreement has been
reached on a far-reaching program (see below) to be supported by the CBP.
70.   The study dealing with tax advantages to exporters concluded that setting up an
Export Processing Zone or a commercial tax-free zone would not be advisable in Mauritania's
case, given the need for substantial infiastructural investment and close monitoring to avoid
leakages. This leaves the option of setting up a tax-free regime for particular exporters
(pointsfrancs) which is now the focus of the GOM's efforts.
71.   The study dealing with a support structure for the private sector concluded that the
most appropriate choice for such an institution was the Chamber of Commerce (CCIA). The
Chamber of Commerce, while presently in a state of hibernation, was identified as the only
structure that has the potential to regroup all private sector interests, as opposed to allowing
undue control by large private operators. The focus of the GOM's efforts now is to
reconstitute the CCIA as an autonomous structure with the involvement of the private sector
and able to carry out its role as a conduit of donor support to the sector.
72.   Reforms Supported by the Credit. The GOM's program for providing support and
a better regulatory framework and incentive structure for the sector focuses on the options
identified in the studies above. The GOM is committed to strengthen the regulatory
fiamework and improve the incentive structure for the private sector, this being a focal point
of the program supported by the Credit. In parallel, the CBP will provide technical support to
enhance the GOM's capabilities in these areas, and to enable it to work toward achieving the
key ingredients of its strategy in this area.
(a)   Revision of Legal and Judiciary Framework Through the CBP, the GOM
will work in the course of 1995 and 1996 on the reform of key elements of its
legal and judiciary framework, through the revision of the investment and
commercial codes, arbitration and bankruptcy rules and the code of
commercial and civil procedures, based on the conclusions of the study,
financed by a Japanese grant according to terms of reference prepared by the
Bank, of the scope for legal and judiciary reform. Completion of this revision
to IDA's satisfaction will be a third tranche release condition. The revision of
legal and regulatory codes will place special emphasis on the environmental
impact of changes in the regulatory framework. Over the same period, a
training program for judges and court auxiliaries will be set up, with the
intention of improving the quality of legal services and the application of
existing laws.
(b)   Introduction of Tax-Free Regimes. Also through the CBP, the GOM will
assess the feasibility of tax-free regimes for new exporters. In the course of
1995 and 1996, the authorities will introduce the necessary legal,
administrative and regulatory measures to make such an option feasible if
judged desirable by a more comprehensive study conducted under the CBP.



22
(c)   Upgrading the Accounting and Auditing Framework The authorities have
committed themselves to adopting an action plan to reorganize the accounting
and auditing professions, revise the national accounting plan, establish norms
for minimum qualifications for accountants and auditors (a second-tranche
release condition) and set up a training program for accountants and auditors.
This will be carried out, with financing from the CBP, in the course of 1995
and 1996, to ensure greater reliability of data provided by enterprises, enhance
the ability of private investors to assess the true status of potential partners and
to enable private entrepreneurs to make use of audits as a planning tool. The
new accounting and auditing norms, which will become legally binding, will be
determined jointly with the authority in a subcomponent of the CBP
specifically designed for that purpose, on the basis of universally accepted
accounting practices. Adoption of said standards to IDA's satisfaction will be
a second-tranche release condition. The intention is to give prospective
accountants and auditors an incentive to take advantage (on a cost-sharing
basis) of the training program set up under the CBP so as to qualify legally as
accountants or auditors.
(d)   Development of a Support Structure for the Private Sector. The
authorities will adopt a new statute for the CCIA, guaranteeing its autonomy,
and implement, also in the context of the CBP, a program for the strengthening
of the CCIA, so that it is fully operational by mid-1996. A major objective of
efforts to empower and strengthen the CCIA is to give informal sector
operators a forum for dialogue with the authorities, and to improve their access
to services the Chamber of Commerce will be equipped to provide (market
surveys, access to information on laws and regulations, help with credit
applications and tax procedures and training specifically geared to the needs of
smaller enterprises). Also included in the CBP is a budget for studies to be
conducting on a cost-sharing basis for the benefit of the private sector, for
which eligibility criteria will be clearly defined.
3.    Consolidation of the Restructuring of the Banking Sector and Strengthening the
Financial Sector Regulation.
73.   Present Situation and Recent Developments. The restructuring of the banking
sector is by now reasonably complete. (See paras. 34- 37.) As things stand now, the financial
sector has made considerable advances toward restoring credibility and soundness. IDA team
review of the quality of the last completed set of audits and the situation of the banks has
revealed that: (i) the performance of all the banks but one (BAMIS) has been steadily
improving, as the banks' owners have come to realize that they have a stake in the evolution of
their profitability, and as the GOMs clear signal that it will no longer provide financial support
to the banks has sunk in; (ii) the quality of the audits has improved considerably, as the banks
have come to look to the auditors for a meaningful assessment of their financial performance
and to use the audits as a tool for improving that performance; (iii) bad loan recovery is being
carried out with considerable success by the State-controlled ARCB and by the banks
themselves on the part of their portfolio which still contains problem or nonperforming loans;



23
and (iv) the quality of Central Bank supervision has shown considerable improvement with
continued support by the IMF and an ambitious training program financed by an IDF grant.
74.   Reforms Supported by the Credit. As far as the banking sector is concerned, the
objective of the GOM's program is to ensure the consolidation of the restructuring phase and
the continued strengthening of financial sector regulation. The underlying objective is to
imnprove the quality of banking services, to enhance healthy competition between banks and to
ensure that the credibility of the credit system is reinforced. This will be accomplished
through the foliowing:
(a)   Adoption of a New Banking Law. The authorities have submitted to ]IDA a
new draft Banking Law aimed at strengthening the regulatory and supervisory
framework for the banks. The law specifies sanctions for violations of existing
prudential regulations (which have been assessed as adequate by IDA, the key
problem in the past being lack of enforcement), and establishes a set of rules
which, while guaranteeing the banks full autonomy in designing and
implementing their strategies for ensuring profitability, specifies the regulatory
constraints to which banks are subject, in the interest of ensuring sound
banking practices. The new Banking Law is expected to be formally adopted
in June 1995, this being an effectiveness condition for the Credit. For the
release of the second and third tranches, the Central Bank will provide
evidence, that each commercial bank operating in Mauritanian territory has met
the capital adequacy requirements contained in the Banking Law.
(b)   Strict Enforcement of Prudential Regulations. Once the Banking Law is
formally adopted, the Central Bank will have a clear mandate to demand
reliable and promptly delivered financial data from the commercial banks, to
conduct regular on-site and off-site exams and to impose sanctions on banks in
violation of prudential regulations. The banks will have to recapitalize if need
be to compensate for losses or provisions on problem or nonperforming loans,
or for losses on their operations in general. At that stage, the training program
for the Central Bank's staff financed by the IDF grant will have been
completed, and the capabilities of the Central Bank to regulate and supervise
the banking sector will be considerably enhanced. As mentioned in (a) above,
enforcement of the Banking Law will be regularly monitored in the course of
supervision of the Credit and provision by the Central Bank of evidence that
each commercial bank operating in Mauritanian territory has met the capital
adequacy requirements contained in the Banking Law will be a second- and
third-tranche release condition. Also, in the course of 1995 and 1996, bankers
will have access to training programs which will upgrade their skills and make
it less likely that they will repeat the errors of the past, while at the same time
better equipping them to expand the range of their intermediation (for instance,
by catering more to the needs of informal sector operators) without unduly
increasing the riskiness of their operations.



24
(c)   Improvement and Updating of the Credit Risk and Arrears Information
System. The GOM will also improve the information flow to and between
banks so as to enable them to make credit decisions according to sounder
criteria. Under the CBP, the credit risk and arrears databases (Centrale des
risques et Centrale des impayes) will be considerably improved and updated.
As Central Bank staff will be trained in regular maintenance and updating of
the database, production of periodic reports and provision of information of
specific borrowers, and as commercial bank staff will also be trained in the
systematic provision of said data and in its utilization in lending decisions, a
better flow of infornation will be ensured. As a result, the penalty for
borrowers building up arrears will increase, in the form of restricted access to
credit. The new procedures for the databases will be fully operational by end-
1995.
(d)   Continuation of Recovery of Bad Debt. The State-controlled ARCB will
continue to recover bad bank debts to which the State now has title. The
target amount to be recovered is UM 800 million (US$6.4 million) in 1995 and
UM 700 million (US$5.2 million) in 1996. This would represent a cumulative
total of UM 2.1 billion (US$16.8 million) since the implementation of the
recovery plan began in the second half of 1993. Collecting the target amounts
will be second- and third-tranche release conditions.
4.    Development of Financial Institutions and Markets
75.   Present Situation and Recent Developments. The GOM has laid the foundation for
the development of a functional money market with the issue of T-bills which were sold by
auction for the first time in July 1994. Since then, auctions of T-bills have become a regular
event, making it possible to identify a market-related interest rate, as banks have had to
compete with other institutions having excess liquidity (SNIM being the most important) for
the purchase of government debt instruments. The marketing of Treasury instruments was the
first step in a program launched with strong support from the IMF and IDA, facilitating the
transition from direct to indirect monetary control instruments.
76.   As of January 1, 1995, the Central Bank has begun to intervene on the T-bill market
periodically according to guidelines, established with the IMF, aimed at ensuring sufficient
liquidity in the market while respecting macro-economic policy targets. This had the practical
result of creating a secondary market for Treasury instruments, the idea being to encourage
banks to manage their liquidity and to give them added incentives to mobilize resources.
77.   Reforms Supported by the Credit. The priority of the GOM at present is to
continue to activate the money market in Treasury instruments, to continue to move toward
indirect instruments of monetary controL to maintain macro-economnic stability and to
formulate a clear strategy for encouraging the development of the financial sector.



25
(a)   Activation of the Money Market and Greater Reliance on Instrument of
Indirect Monetary Control. The authorities intend to continue the regular
issuance of T-bills and their sale in a competitive environment. Intervention on
the market by the Central Bank will be guided by the policy framework agreed
in the Sixth Year PFP.
(b)   Formulation of a Medium-Term Strategy for the Second Phase of
Financial Sector Development. Under the CBP, the authorities will conduct
a study aimed at exploring the options for further developing the sector and, in
particular, promoting the financing of investment and increased access to credit
by private sector operators without direct government intervention in the
sector. By September 1995, such a strategy will have been formally adopted as
a working paper, and will be used to guide efforts to promote private sector
interest in Mauritanian financial institutions.
5.    Development of the Fishing Sector
78.   Present Conditions and Recent Developments. The strategy for development of the
fishing sector adopted at Nouadhibou in September 1994 in concert with the donor
community has been supplemented with a detailed action plan and a plan for developing
artisanal fishing. Since then, the authorities have proceeded to implement the first, crucial
measures envisaged by the strategy. These included the following: (i) formulation of a plan
for the disengagement of the state from ALMAP and MAUSOV, two loss-making fishing
concerns; (ii) revision and approval by the National Assembly of a new maritime code; (iii)
adoption of a plan for the strengthening of the CNROP (Centre National de Recherche
Oceanographique et de Peche); (iv) creation of a Delegation for Maritime Surveillance; (v)
the closure of Zone A of the Banc d'Arguin and the application of restrictions to Zones B and
C, the aforementioned zones having been identified by the CNROP as having been
dangerously overfished; and (vi) strengthening of capabilities of the Ministry of Fisheries.
79.   The purpose of the GOM's strategy in the area of fishing is to conserve and develop
the abundant resources of the sector, to ensure transparency in access to resources by private
investors, to enhance surveillance capabilities and penalize violators of the system, to
restructure and strengthen the Fishing and Maritime Economy Ministry, and to phase out the
GOM from the productive and marketing activities in the sector.
80.   Reforms Supported by the Credit:
(a)   New, More Transparent and Equitable Licensing System. For deep sea
fishing, a system of access fees will be implemented, with these fees presently
at 2 percent and rising progressively to 11 percent of the estimated value of
production by mid-1997. Progressive implementation of said plan will be a
condition of second and third tranche releases. For pelagic fishing, the
licensing system will be made more competitive and the arbitrarily decided
access rights will be replaced by a transparent system of bidding. Also,
licenses will be given to ships and not to individuals.



26
(b)   Rigorous Surveillance and Imposition of Penalties. Under the CBP, the
GOM will set up a monitoring mechanism for export receipts in order to
control abuses which have translated into massive capital flight. Strengthening
the monitoring scheme for fish export operations and foreign exchange flows
resulting therefrom will be carried out with technical support given under the
CBP in the course of 1995. Through technical support from a broad array of
donors, the authorities will also strengthen current surveillance capabilities.
The GOM will collect, at a minimum, 80 percent of due fines from violators of
the aforementioned system during 1995.
(c)   Conservation of Resources. The CNROP, a scientific watchdog
organization, will be strengthened through financial support from the Bank in
the context of the CBP in coordination with other donors. The CBP will also
help strengthen the environment-monitoring capabilities of the CNROP. The
CNROP's its findings will be published and the five-year plan for its
development implemented. Its recommendations for conservation and
limitation of fishing zones and seasons will be strictly respected. The CBP will
provide financing for the strengthening of the CNROP, notably in the areas of
production and storage standards and environmental capacity building.
(d)   Restructuring and Strengthening of Regulatory Framework. The donor
community has indicated it will provide strong support for the Ministry of
Fishing and Maritime Economy to reorganize and train its officials in the latest
technology, conservation priorities and greater sensitivity toward private
investor needs and concerns. Regulation will also be enforced so as to ensure
compliance with European standards for storage and processing of fish and fish
products, a necessary step as the European Union has imposed a deadline of
end-1995, after which for Mauritanian fish exports will have to conforn to
European Union standards to continue to have access to their markets.. At the
same time, the second phase of the study of taxation of the fishing sector will
be completed, also a second tranche release condition, and its
recommendations integrated into the GOM's program..
(e)   Disengagement of the State from Production and Marketing. The
authorities will implement the privatization/liquidation plan for MAUSOV and
ALMAP in accordance with the action plan already adopted for that purpose.
Preparation of a prospectus and solicitation of offers for the acquisition of
MAUSOV and ALMAP in the context of said action plan will be a second
tranche release condition. This should bring to an end two partnerships which
have proven less than financially rewarding for the State, and enable these
companies, if they prove viable, to have access to financing for investment
purposes. The GOM will also proceed to set up GEEs (Groupements d'Intir&t
Economique) to represent the interest of producers of pelagic products and
producers of fresh, salted and dried fish products, the State's participation in
these GIEs being limited to 35 percent. The idea is to conserve the bargaining



27
power of producer-exporters vis-a-vis buyers, without having to go through a
bureaucratic state monopoly. The GOM will also gradually liberalize the
marketing of processed demersal fish.
6.    Development of the Mining Sector
81.   Present Conditions and Recent Developments. The authorities have studied the
situation of the mining sector, one of the most promising areas of private sector involvement
in Mauritania. The conclusions of studies and an ongoing dialogue between IDA and the
GOM in this area point to the following priority tasks: revision of codes and procedures
affecting the sector, strengthening the regulatory agency (Direction des Mines) and increasing
the sensitivity of regulators to the needs and concerns of private investors.
82.   Reforms Supported by the Credit:
(a)   Formulation of a Medium-Term Strategy for Development of the Sector.
With the support of a study conducted under the CBP, the GOM will adopt a
medium-term strategy aimed at developing the sector and increasing private
sector interest in investing in it. This will form the basis of further discussions
with the Bank in the area of mining reform.
(b)   Revision of Regulatory Framework and Procedures. The GOM, using
resources provided by the CBP, will, in the course of 1995 and 1996, proceed
to revise the mining code (legislation) and the taxation of the sector, taking
into account the need to increase the interest of private investors in exploiting
mineral resources in Mauritania. Revisions will be carried out on the basis of
discussions conducted with the Bank which began in 1994 and will continue
through 1996, as well as the medium-term strategy for the sector mentioned in
(a). One element which will receive special emphasis in the revision of the
mining code (legislation) is the environmental impact of any changes to the
code. Adoption of the new mining legislation following revisions carried out
under the CBP to the Bank's satisfaction will be a third tranche release
condition. By end- 1996, the GOM will have completed the revision of mining
cadaster procedures, so as to be able to define the scope of concessions
through a clearer and more transparent system.
(c)   Strengthening the Capabilities of Regulators. The GOM is conunitted to
reorganizing the Direction des Mines and training officials there in the latest
technology, as well as sensitizing them to the needs and concerns of private
investors. This will be financed in part by the CBP.



28
B. CREDfT FEATURES
83.   Credit Amount and Financing. The proposed amount of IDA financing is SDR
19.3 million (about US$30 million equivalent), excluding taxes and import duties. The SDR
19.3 million will be an adjustment credit to be disbursed in three tranches (the first of SDR
8.9 million, then two tranches of SDR 5.2 million each) twelve months apart, upon
satisfaction of prespeciried conditionality. This would help bridge the financing gap
projected at SDR 129.6 million in 1995 and SDR 64 million in both 1996 and 1997 (see para.
16.). The justification of a quick-disbursing operation stems from the expected cost of the
GOMs policy reform program. The progressive liberalization of foreign exchange operations
to which the authorities have agreed suggests a loss of control over part of foreign exchange
receipts, which could lead to tighter access to foreign exchange to meet extemal obligations.
This impact of this will be mitigated by the quick disbursement of SDR 8.9 million in mid-
1995, another SDR 5.2 million in mid-1996 and another SDR 5.2 million in mid-1997.
84.   Cofinancing has been sought from donors. So far, the African Development Bank
(AfDB) has expressed strong interest in cofinancing this credit, but no formal communication
from AfDB has been received as of this time.
85.   The Government of Germany has also expressed its interest in providing parallel
financing of the Credit, notably to support fishing sector reform, totaling DM 5 million (about
US$3.5 million equivalent). Japan's OECF (Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund) has
likewise expressed possible interest in providing parallel financing, subject to confirmation in
accordance with guidelines for supporting adjustment in countries which have benefited from
debt-reduction. The amount OECF could provide is projected at US$30 million, equivalent to
the amount of the Credit. In both cases the financing would be dispensed in parallel tranches.
86.   Program Implementation. The execution of the reform program for the adjustment
component will be handled by the Ministry of Planning and the Central Bank of
Mauritania. The Ministry of Planning will coordinate the implementation of reforms by the
Ministry of Industry and Mining, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Fisheries
and the Ministry of Finance.
87.   Procurement and Disbursements. Procurement procedures will be designed to
allow, simultaneously, the rapid use of the funds and efficiency and accountability in the
process. Procurement procedures will be based on the Bank's Procurement Guidelines
(January 1995). Eligible imports by public agencies and by the private sector exceeding USS4
million will be subject to simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and to IDA prior
review. There is a Pre-Shipment Inspection (PSI) agency in place, namely the Societe
Generale de Surveillance, which has carried out the inspection task in other IDA projects in
Mauritania, and which will be responsible for providing documentation to ensure that
procedures for verification of price (other than ICB), quality and quantity etc. have been
applied. Procurement by public agencies for contracts below the threshold will follow
standard government practices that are acceptable to IDA. Eligible general imnports by the
private sector, below the threshold, will be procured in accordance with normal commercial
practices. Whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries



29
will be sought. Single source purchasing will only be used for proprietary equipment or where
compatibility with existing equipment requires standardization. Contracts of less than
US$10,000 would not be eligible for financing under the Credit. Procurement documentation
will be maintained for ex-post review by IDA. This documentation consists of: (i) a brief
description of procurement procedures; (ii) an evaluation summary giving number of bids
received; (iii) a comparative statement of prices received; (iv) dates of contracts and
payments; (v) a copy of the contract; (vi) a copy of the invoice; and (vii) any other
documentation required by disbursements.
88.   Disbursements. The Credit will finance 100 percent of the cost of imports. Public
and private sector imports will be eligible, except for those included in the standard Bank
negative list and imported goods already financed under multilateral or bilateral credits. The
Credit will be disbursed on the basis of fully documented applications except for contracts of
less than USS4 million, could be submitted on the basis of a Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs). The Borrower will indicate on the Statements of Expenditures the nature and origin
of the goods as well as the payment date, and will maintain all relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, import certificates and evidence of payment) for review by
supervision missions. In order to permit timely disbursements in the amount needed to keep
the program on track, an amount of SDR 3.9 million of the Credit will be eligible for
retroactive financing for imports paid no more than four months prior to the credit signature
date.
89.   Accounting and Auditing. Disbursements under the Credit will be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and according to Terms of Reference agreed by
IDA. The auditors will be appointed for a period of three years. Besides financial audits, the
institution responsible for the administration of the special account will be required to submit,
no later than three months after the closing of each Mauritanian fiscal year, annual audited
financial statements on expenditures acceptable to IDA financed by the Credit.
90.   Arrangements for auditing as well as reporting formats and schedules will follow
formal IDA procedures. The services of a firm acceptable to IDA will be hired to design and
implement a satisfactory system of accounts and a management information system for the
Credit as a whole.
C. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CoNDrrIoNALrrY
91.   The following are the key elements of the GOM's program for the development of the
private sector, including reforms of the financial, fishing and mining sectors, which have
already been carried out:
- Authorization to non-bank institutions to operate foreign exchange offices as of
January 1, 1995. (See para. 66.)
- Authorization to banks to use foreign-exchange-denominated accounts to finance
import operations as of January 1, 1995. (See para. 66.)



30
- Designation of the Chamber of Commerce (CCLA) as the agency to provide
support to the private sector and to act as the sector's spokesperson in dialogue with the
GOM in January 1995. (See para. 72d.)
- Recapitalization of commercial banks on the basis of audits conducted according
to terms of reference drawn up by.the Bank, completed in December 1994. (See para. 47.)
- Recovery by ARCB of UM 600 million worth of bad loans to which the State now
holds title, completed in December 1994. (See para. 45.)
- Launching of auctions of T-bills in July 1994, which since then have become a
regular monthly event, making it possible to identify a market-related interest rate. (See para.
48.)
- Creation of a secondary market for T- bills as of January 1, 1995, through regular
intervention on the market as warranted by the Central Bank according to guidelines
established with the IMf. (See para. 48.)
-  Formulation of an action plan for the disengagement of the State from ALMAP
and MAUSOV, two loss-making fishing concerns in December 1994. (See para. 58.)
- Revision and approval by the National Assembly of a new maritime code in
December 1994. (See para. 58.)
- Adoption of a plan for-the strengthening of the CNROP (Centre National de
Recherche Oceanographique et de Peche) in December 1994. (See para. 58.)
-  Creation of a Delegation for Maritime Surveillance in December 1994. (See para.
58.)
- Closure of Zone A of the Banc d'Arguin and the application of restriction to Zones
B and C in December 1994. (See para. 58.)
92.   The following conditionality has also been met:
- Implementation of the first phase of the access fees system for demersal and
cephalopod (deep sea) fishing, said fees being fixed at 2 percent of the estimated value of
production. (See para. 80a.)
93.   The following conditionality was agreed with the GOM for credit effectiveness:
-     Adoption of a new Banking Law satisfactory to the Bank. (See para. 74a.)



31
94.   The following conditionality was agreed with the GOM for second tranche release:
- Recovery of an additional UM 800 million by ARCB. (See para. 74d.)
- Formulation, in agreement with the Bank, of new standards for the accounting and
auditing professions, and adoption of said standards. (See para. 72c.)
- Provision of evidence by the Central Bank that each commercial bank operating in
Mauritanian territory meets the capital adequacy requirements contained in the Banking Law.
(See para. 74a.)
- Preparation of a prospectus and solicitation of offers for the acquisition of
MAUSOV and ALMAP in the context of the action plan for their privatization. (See para.
80e.)
- Implementation of the second phase of the access rights system for demersal and
cephalopod (deep sea) fishing, said fees being fixed at 8 percent of the estimated value of
production. (See para. 80a.)
95.   The following conditionality was agreed with the GOM for third tranche release:
- Revision of commercial code, investment code, arbitration and bankruptcy rules,
and the code of civil and commercial procedures in accordance with the study completed in
January 1995. (See para. 72a.)
-  Recovery of an additional UM 700 million by ARCB. (See para. 74d.)
- Provision of evidence by the Central Bank that each commercial bank operating in
Mauritanian territory meets the capital adequacy requirements contained in the Banking Law.
(See para. 74a.)
- Implementation of the third phase of the access rights system for demersal and
cephalopod (deep sea) fishing, said fees being fixed at 11 percent of the estimated value of
production. (See para. 80a.)
- Adoption of new Mining Legislation satisfactory to the Bank. (See para. 82b.)
D - CREDIT BENEFITS AND RISKS
96.   Rationale for EDA's Involvement. The Credit is intended to support a strong
package of policy reformns, outlined in the matrix in Annex 1, based on the objectives
elaborated by the GOM in the 1994-97 Policy Framework Paper, and responding to key
objectives defined in IDA's Country Assistance Strategy, approved in February 1994. The
policy reform program which the quick-disbursing component will support has as its medium-
term objectives the promotion of exports and the wooing of private (including foreign)



32
investment. This should, in the medium termn, increase the flow of foreign exchange into the
country and relieve pressure on the balance of payments. It should also contribute to the
expansion of private sector activities, which should, in the medium term, boost tax revenues
either directly through the taxation of incremental income and sales.
97.   The authorities, including the Governor of the Central Bank and the Minister of
Planning, have made a decision to seek IDA's assistance in resolving the problems of the
private and financial sectors. The GOM has sought IDA's support in strengthening the private
sector and removing obstacles to its development. Because of the complexity of the issues
involved, IDA is well-placed to assist the GOM, as IDA has taken the lead in supporting
similar programs in the region. The progran supported by the Credit will complement IDA's
past involvement in the sector, as well as other IDA operations currently underway as well as
those in the pipeline. It will further the priority objectives defined in the Country
Assistance Strategy, namely the promotion of human resource development, the
promotion of private sector development, and economic management and capacity
building. By creating a favorable climate for private sector investment and growth, it
winl promote income-generating opportunities for the urban poor, notably through
promotion of private sector activities, in furtherance of IDA's Poverty Reduction
Strategy. By emphasizing support for, and expanded access to credit by, small and
medium enterprises (SMEs), this operation will expand the role of SMEs and, given the
prominence of women entrepreneurs in that sector, boost the role of women in
development. The operation will also help implement the policies pertaining to private and
financial sector development outlined in the Sixth Year PFP. It will also consolidate the
capacity building efforts of the Institutional Development Fund Grant aimed at boosting bank
supervisory capacity at the Central Bank of Mauritania.
98.   Benefits. The focus in the Credit, as well as in the parallel CBP, is on: (i) helping to
generate a supply response in the form of increased private sector investment which would
translate into growth and employment generation; (ii) promoting better governance and
institution building, including a regulatory framework that is both transparent and uniformly
applied; (iii) contributing to improved quality of financial intermediation and enhancing access
to finance for small businesses, including many operated by women; (iv) fostering increased
output and export revenues in the fishing sector, while at the same ensuring conservation of
resources in this area; and (v) promoting exploration, extraction and export of mineral
resources. The Credit will help promote a policy environment favorable to the development
of the private sector, and will support a stronger and more efficient financial sector, both at
the level of the monetary and regulatory authorities and the commercial banks. It will also
help promote improved access to credit by operators in the private sector currently denied
such access (through the upgrading of credit information systems), and improved and more
transparent procedures in the financial sector to ensure accountability and better supervision.
99.   Risks. The foreseeable risks affecting the success of the proposed reform program are
that private sector investment may continue to be dominated for some time by larger
investors, which could limit the scope for employment generation and poverty alleviation.
However, the strong emphasis placed by components of the CBP on helping ensure a voice
for small and medium enterprises, as well as on information dissemination to maximize



33
outreach, wil increase the likelihood that smaller businesses will explore the opportunities
afforded under the GOM's program to the fullest.
100.  Another risk is that, given the sensitive nature of the problems of the banking sector,
there is a chance that the GOM may opt for an interpretation of prudential regulations (such
as capital adequacy) which may prove inconsistent with safety and soundness practices. We
believe, however, that agreement reached with the GOM on procedures and principles to be
adopted will ensure that the regulatory framework for the financial sector will be enforced in
strict conformity with international standards. Furthermore, the involvement of the GOM, the
banks and the private sector in various program components is expected to enhance the sense
of ownership, crucial for successfil implementation of the reform program. Finally, the credit
conditionality institutes a close follow-up by IDA of the performance of the banks and of
Central Bank supervision thereof
PART VIII. RECOMMENDATION
101.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
by Gautam Kaji
Washington, DC
April 26, 1995
Attachments



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
MATRIX OF POLICY MEASURES
Policy snd Area Related        Strategies and Measures                     Implementing Agency  Timing of
Objectives                                                                                       Measures
I. Improvement of Foreign      a. Continuation of the agreed policy on     Banque Centrale de     1995-97
Exchange and Trade Regime      exchange rates, taking into account the balance   Mauritanie
for Private Sector Development  of payments objectives and development on the
free and parallel exchange markets. ,
b. Study of the modalites of a unified exchange   Banque Centrale de  April 30, 1995
regime in consultation with the IMF        Mauritanie
c. Unification of exchange rates.          Banque Centrale de     Dec. 31, 1995
___ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ __  __ __ _____ __  M auritanie
d. Completion of the debt buyback operation  Banque Centrale de   Sept. 30, 1995
with a view to eliminating the arrears on the non- Mauritanie
guaranteed commercial debt taken over by the
Government.
e. Communication to the World Bank and IMF   Banque Centrale de   April 30, 1995
on the timetable submitted to the Central Bank    Mauritanie
by the commercial banks for the elimination (by
cash payments, rescheduling and forgiveness) of
their arrears to foreign correspondents (for which
counterpart amounts were not deposited at the
BCM).
(Dt'1
I-.
I-



Policy and Area Related        Strategies and Measures                     Implementing Agency  Timing of
Obectives                                                                                         Measures
II. Improvement of Incentive    a. Revision of investment and commercial codes, Ministere du Plan  Dec.. 31, 1996
Structure for Private Sector   as well as other aspects of business law and the   Ministere de la Justice
Activities                     overall judiciary framework, in line with the  Ministlre du
recommendations of studies carried out on this    Commerce
subject.
b. Launching of training program for magistrates Ministere de la Justice  Jan. 1, 1996
and auxiliaries of justice
c. Preparation of users' manual pertaining to the  Secretarial GCneral du  Dec. 31, 1995
electronic indexation of laws               Gouvernement
d. Decision on introduction of a tax-free regime  Ministere de lIndustrie  June 30, 1996
(tax advantages for new exporters)          el des Mines
e. Establishment of a tax-free regime (should it   Ministere du Plan  Dec. 31, 1996
be needed) and adoption of necessary legislation   Ministere du
Commercie                                      w
Ministere de l'Industrie
et des Mines
f. Adoption of an action plan for the       Ministere des Finances  Dec. 31, 1995
reorganization of the accounting and auditing
profession and definition of requirements
necessary to strengthening professional
accountants and auditors
g. Revision of accounting plan and audit    Ministere des Finances  Apr. 30, 1996
requirements, and preparation of a manual of
l_____________________________ new accounting procedures     __
h. Upgrading of the accounting profession   Ministere des Finances  Apr. 30, 1996
through the adoption of standards which will
ensure a high quality of service
0
Mi



Policy and Area Related          Strategies snd Measures                        Implementing Agency   Timing of Measures
Objectives
i. Training of auditors and accountants       Ministire des Finances    1996-1997
j. Adoption of new statute of Chamber of      Minislre du Commerce   Dec. 31, 1996
Commerce (CCIA) enabling it to act as an
independent interlocutor for the private sector and
_ vehicle for dispensing support services to the sector           _
IU. Consolidation Of the         a. Finalization of new Banking Law in consultation   Banque Centrale de  March 31, 1995
restructuring of the banking     with the World Bank                           Mauritanie
sector and strengthening of
financial sector regulations
b. Adoption by the Assembly of the new Banking    Banque Centrale de  June 30, 1995
_________ __ ____   Law                                      Mauritanie
c. Adherence to prudential regulation by commercial Banque Centrale de  As of June 30, 1995
banks, and application of sanctions in case of  Mauriranie
violations                                                                                      w
d. Requirement of recapitalization of all banks to  Banque Centrale de  June 30, 1995
ensure full compliance with current prudential  Mauritanie
regulations                                ___
e. Application of new procedures for the credit risk  Banque Centrale de  Dec. 31, 1995
and arrears information systems               Mauritanie
f. Recovery of bad loans held at present by the  Banque Centrale de
Agence pour le Recouvrement des Creances      Mauritanie
Bancaires:
- Recovery of an additional UM 800 million                        Dec. 31, 1995
- Recovery of an additional UM 700 million                        Dec. 31, 1996
>4
0



Policy and Area Related         Strategies and Measures                      Implementing Agency  Timing of
Objectives                                                                 ____                     Measures
IV. Development of financial    a. Maintenance of a satisfactory macrofinancial   Banque Centrale de  1994-1997
markets and institutions        policy framework (interest rates positive in real   Maurilanie
terms, and control of liquidity of the banking
system consistent with targets to be set in the
context of PFP review).
b. Continuation of regular issue of Treasury  Banque Centrale de    As of July 1, 1994
instruments in advance of being used to      Mauritanie
determine the market interest rate
c. Re-examination and adaptation of the policy    Banque Centrale de  1995-1996
on mandatory reserves and phase out reliance on  Maurilanie
____________________________    individual credit ceilings for each bank
d. Preparation of medium-term strategy paper    Banque Centrale de  Sep. 30, 1995
for development of the financial sector, including: Mauritanie
the financing of investment, the improvement of
access of small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
to credit, and the development of institutional
investors
im
4'-4
0
I- :



Policy and Area Related        Strategies and Measures                      Implementing Agency  Timing of
Objectives                                                                                        Measures
V. Development of Fisheries    a. Strict application of the granting of fishing  Ministere des Peches el Jan. 1, 1995
Sector                         authorizations to boats; quarterly publication of   de I'tconomie
the authorizations granted                  Maritime
b. Implementation of the licensing system for    Ministere des Peches et  1994-95
pelagic fishing. The current contracts based on    de I'tconomie
the system of apportionment of output will only   Maritime
be renewed for periods less than six months and
will expire on Nov. 30, 1995 at the latest
c. Gradual introduction over three years of an    Ministere des Peches et Jan. 31, 1995
access fee for demersal and cephalopod fishing    de l'tconomie    onward
Maritime
d. Collection of the fines levied on violators,  Ministre des Peches et Jan. 1, 1996
increasing collections to 80 percent of the  de l'Aconomie         onward
amount of fines recorded during the preceding    Maritime
_______________________________  fiscal year                                                      _
e. Imposition and enforcement of absolute   Ministere des Peches el  Sept. 30, 1995
compliance with fishing ground limits and   de I'Aconomie
restrictions on fishing equipment and motors as   Maritime
recommended by the CNROP
f. Strengthening of the Maritime Surveillance  Ministere des Peches el Jan. 31, 1995
Authority, with transfer of budgetary resources   de I'Itconomie   onward
and equipment belonging to the former DCP   Maritime
g. Strengthening of the control of fish exports by Minisiere des Peches et Dec. 31, 1995
using the services of specialized experts   de I'tconomie
Maritime
h. Strengthening of the CNROP to implement    Ministere des Peches el Jan. 31, 1995
the Five-Year-Plan with sufficient budgetary  de I'tconomie        onward
appropriations                              Maritime              o__ _ _
0
-'I



Policy and Area Related        Strategies and Measures                     Implementing Agency  Timing of
Objectives                                                                                       Measures
i. Publishing the CNROP's scientific findings  Minisiere des Peches et June 30, 1995
regarding the permissible annual catch     de l'tconomie
Maritime
j. Restructuring and strengthening of Ministry of Ministire des Peches et Sept. 30, 1995
Fisheries and the Maritime Economy         de I'Aconomie
Maritime
k. Application of European sanitary and quality   Ministere des Peches et January 1, 1996
standards for the export of fishing products  de I'tconomie
Maritime
1. Continuation of study of the tax system and    Ministere des Peches et  1994-95
the practical modalities of its implementation  de I'tconomie
Maritime
m. Implementation of the privatizationl    Ministere des Peches et June 30, 1995
liquidation plan for the Government joint  de I'tconomie
ventures (ALMAP and MAUSOV)                Maritime
n. Creation of a GIE (Groupement d'interet  Ministere des Peches et June 30, 1995
economique) composed of producers-exporters   de I'tconomie
of pelagic products, with government       Maritime
participation limited to 35 percent
o. Creation of GIE (Groupement d'interet   Ministere des Peches et June 30, 1995
economique) composed of producers-exporters   de I'tconomie
of fresh, salted and dried fish products, with 35    Maritime
percent government participation
p. Gradual liberalization, from Jan. 31st to June   Ministere des Pches e  Jan 31 -- June 30
30, 1995, of the marketing of processed demersal de I'Economie    1995
fish                                       Maritime
Px 
tD 
o-4
0



Policy and Area Related        Strategies and Measures                     Implementing Agency  Timing of
Objectives                                                                                        Measures
VI. Development of Mining      a. Formnulation of medium-term strategy for  Ministire de l'Industrie  Dec. 31, 1996
Sector                         development of the sector                    el des Mines
b. Revision of Mining taxation system       Ministere de l'Jndustrie  Dec. 31, 1996
et des Mines
c. Reform of tax code as it applies to mining  Ministere de l'Industrie  Dec. 31, 1996
el des Mines
d. Reconfiguration of regulatory institutions and  Minislere de l'lndustrie  June 30, 1996
revision and implementation of new regulatory    el des Mines
_ procedures_
e. Definition and implementation of revised  Ministere de lIndustrie  March 30, 1997
procedures for mining cadaster              el des Mines
o
0
x
0r-



41
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 21
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FOR THE FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE SECTORS
(Translated from French)
INTRODUCTION
1.     M[aurtanias financial system and private sector have undergone far-reaching changes during the last few
years. In the context of the continuous dialogue established bewem the World Bank and the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, and particularly of the negotiations concemring the 1994-97 economic policy
fiamework paper, we should like to set forth the broad lines of our development policy for the financial and
private sectors.
2.     First of all, however, it will be useful to describe the overall economic seting within which this policy is
to be implemnented.
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
A.    Status of the Economic Reform Program
3.     Since 1992, on the basis of the fourth famnework paper, drawn up at the end of that year, Mauritania
has stepped up its adjustnent efforts aimed at corrtng the structural imbalances that have accumulae since
the 1970s, in order particularly to lirnit the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation that characterized the
first two years of the decade. With the support of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the
GOM has drawn up an economic recovery plan, the broad lines of which were set forth in the 1992 fiamework
paper and which was subsequently revised to take account of exogenous developmrents and the progress achieved
in implementing the programn.
4.     The GOM's strategy has put the emphasis on continuation of the liberalization policy initiated in 1986 in
the context of the adjustment programns (supported by the 1987 SAC, the 1989 PASA and the 1990 PASEP),
which have contributed greatly to the goals of substantial liberalization of the economy, increased private-sector
participation in economic activity and a greater role for market forces.
5.     The economic difficulties (fall in export receipts, relaxation of budgetary and monetary policies and loss
of solvency of certain banks) encountered during the period 1990-91, owing essentially to exogenous factors,
were rapidly overcome as a consequence of Mauritania's continued restructuring efforts and its evolution toward
a democratic system.
6.     In order to contain these problems, in October 1992 the GOM embarked on an ambitious programn of
action designed to reTindle the adjustment process and deepen the structural reforms. The inplementation of
these inportant reforms in the various areas has yielded positive resuls.



42
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 21
7.     Price instability has been brought under control, with an esimated rate of inflation of 3.8 percent in
1994. The econoic growth rate for the period 1993-94 was close to 5 percent, against an original target of 3.5
percent.
8.     Mauritania!s cument monetary and budgetary policies have been implemented in confomity with the
program drawn up together with the IMF and the World Bank and set forth in the 1995-97 economic policies
framework paper. More resolute application of monetary policy has enabled Mauritania to combat inflationary
trends and cope with the fall in export prices more effectively.
9.     Despite the decline in inflation, the rediscount rate has been maintained at II percent, and the ceiling on
lending rates, currently 20 percent, is being progressively relaxed. The experience gained with the Public
Treasury bonds auction system introduced in June 1994 will henceforth serve, among other purposes, as basic
indicator for setting base rates, and base lending rates have been liberalized. The minimum remuneration on
deposits has been abolished.
10.   The price stability that has prevailed since devaluation confirms that Mauritania has conserved the gains
achieved in export competitiveness. All the measures geared to the deregulation of the foreign exchange and trade
system, provided for in the program, have been implemented.
11.    The free foreign exchange market is operating normally and wtout restrictions with repect to
operations in invisibles, and the banks have gained experience in transactons in foreign currency transactions.
This market has been opened to non-banking foreign exchange houses in order to stimulate competition and take
a first step toward a true exchange market. Foreign currency transfers to finance the imports of goods and
services are authorized in this market.
12.    Tuming to foreign debt, Mauritania is on good terms with its various creditors. Arrangements on terms
broadly comparable to those accorded by the Paris Club were obtained in 1984, and an arrangement with the
FKDEA is imminent. The introduction of the auction systen for import licenses, the conclusion of rescheduling
agreements, the settlement of public arrears, and the abstention from contracing new loans on non-concessional
terms are major steps in the right direction.
13.   In December 1994 Mauritania requested the second arrangement under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) at the IMF, in collaboration with the World Bank. The major benefits gained by the
arrangement were: (i) nmintenance of price stability through continued application of resticuive budgetary, fiscal
and monetary policies; (ii) creation of a transparent, market-linked exchange and intemational trade system in
order to stimulate competiton and eliminate the obstacles to investment and production; (iii) reform of the legal,
judicial and regulatory franework; (iv) reform of the fishing sector through the installation of a bansparent
systern based on access fees (taxes based on the expected value of production), the strengthening of surveillance,
the move toward the privatization of marketng, and the adoption of an exit mechanism fbr non-viable enterprises;
(v) strengthening finania intermediaton, and (vi) resolution of the extemal debt problem.
14.    The program's macroeconomnic objectives are as follows: (i) a sustained average economic growth rate
of 4.4 percent, thus assuring a moderate increase in income and consumption per capita; (ii) stabilization of
annual inflation at about 3 percent, and (w) reduction of the external current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) from 14.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6.4 percent in 1997, together with an increase in the Central
Bank's international reserves so that they cover imports for 2 months in 1995 and 3 months by 1997. The key
a



43
ANNEX n
Page 3 of 21
fictor in achieving such a growth rate would be expanded pnvate sector investment apart from that undertake
by the nining company. Investment should rise from about 13 percent in 1994 to about, 15 percent in 1997. In
addition, investnent aimed at raising the value added of exports of fish and mineral products, together with a
more libalized cmic environment, should enhance the productivity of existng capital. In order to narrow
the extemal and domestic imbalances, it is projected that the fiscal deficit of 4.3 percent of GDP in 1994 will be
transformed into a small suiplus in 1997. The net reimbursement of government debt to the local banking sector
would create possibilWies for the satisfaction of the private sector's financing needs, as well as permit a growth of
the money supply compatible with the progran's inflation goal.
B.    Relative umportance of the financial and pnivate sectors
15.    The economic seting descnbed above brings out the importance of the financial and pnvate sectors in
the GOMs medium-term stegy. It goes without saying that improving the situation of the extemal sector will
depend in large part on increasing exports, which can only be achieved by assigning a more dynamfic role to the
private sector. The GOM is therefore acting to improve the sector's incentives structure, especially in the area of
export promotion.
16. Outside the external sector, the private sector has an extremely important role to play in the process of
expanding economic activity and thereby rekindling economic growth. The GOM sees the private sector as the
driving force of the economy, in line with the strategy of tnmraing the role of the public sector (reflected in its
public enterprises reform program instituted in 1989 with the support of the World Bank, which granted a
structurl adjustment credit for the sector and a technical assistance credit for inplementation of the reform
neasures). Expanding private-sector activity has thus become a top-priority goal in order to stinulate
employment and mitigate the negative impact on it of budgetary and monetary austenty and to ensure the high
level of budget receipts required to be able to achieve the program's macroeconormic objectives.
17.    The financial sector also has a key role to play in the GONVs program. In the first place, the soundness
of its macroeconormic policy will depend on the future health of the banking sector. The GOM has already stated
its intention not to grant any financial support to the banks from now on. It is therefore essential that the banks
regain their profitability and pursue their -development in a context of stnct comnpliance with the prudential
regulations.
18.    The GOM's macroeconomic policy will be reflected in the irmediate future in tightening of policiies for
managng demand, and the consequent reduction in absorption will necessarly be accompanied by an increase in
saving. In addition to the efforts of the authorities in the taxation ara, this will call for action to revitalize the
financial sector's capacity to mobilize resources. Efficient financial internediation must play a larger role in the
channeling of finds toward the most remunerative economic uses.
II. REFORM OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
19.    The first bank restructuring program, which covered the period 1988 to 1990, was unplemnented with
substantial support from the World Bank. It was among the financial components financed by a structural
adjustment credit. The results of this restructuring did not entirely come up to expectations. In particular-



44
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 21
(a)    Tlhis fir restructuring exercise did not basically alter the way the banking system fiuions. It
remained largely dominated by the state, which until 1990 was owner of the country's two largest banks (UBD
and BNM) and co-owner of the Ch0iguitty Bank.
(b)    The rehabilitation was oly partal, since the need for provisions to cover possible borrower
defaut was under-estimated. In this context the (public) banks remaine dependent upon Central Bank
refinancing opeations for their daily cash flow, thereby preventing implemetation of a judicious monetary policy
based on an indirect control of liquidity.
(c)    The State's intervention in the acbvity of the banks caused the latter to incur risks, especially in
the fishing sector, whose activity posted negative fluctuations.
20.    Aftr audits of the situation of the banks, as of June 30, 1993, were completed in December 1993, bad
debts rose again to UM 18.84 billion (US$151 million or 60.1 percent of bank loans), part of which (at least LIM
5 billion) represnted bad debts transferred to the state but still carried on the balance shoets of certain banks.
MTe uncetainty that afflicted the sector led to a general slowdown of the credit system, which pnalized the
pnvate sector in particular.
21. In light of this situation the moneaey authorities, with the support of the IMF and the World Bank,
instute a major program of reform of the financial sector. The first phase of this program, restructuring of the
bankig system, is now nearing completion. Its most important measures were as follows:
(a)    The GOM wihdrw from the banking systen comnpletely and transferred all the shares it held in
the banks to the private sector, except for the Chinguitty Bank, to which it is linked through intenautional
commtmets.
(b)    The Union of Development Banks (Union des Banques de DNwoppement-UBD), the only
development financing agecy, was liquidated on June 24, 1993.
(c)    All the development banks were financially rehabilitated by means of substantal
recapitalization.
(d)    Supervision and oversight of the banks was strngthned, and vigorous measures are currently
being implemented to provide the Central Bank with all the tools it needs for efficient quality control; the World
Bank funiushed substantal assistance, trugh its Institutional Development Fund.
(e)    An ambitious, precise and monitored program  is under way of recovery of bank debtor
balances tansferred to the GOhls portfolio, just as of all other receipts. A recovery agency has been set up for
the purpose. The recovery target for 1994 (UM 600 million) has already been achieved.
22.    The GOM now proposes, with the continued help of the IMF and the World Bank, to launch the second
stage of the banking sector reforn program, i.e. the consolidation stage. The main objectives of this slage are to:
(i) fnsolide the bank rehabilitation and debtor balances recovery process; (u) institute a stricter superision
system inorderto avoid any repetition of banking crises; (iii) strengthen the skills of bank maagmet stag (iv)
promote investnt financing tho  market nehanisms, and (v) improve the incentive structure of the banking
system and thereby enhance the efficiency of financi intemediation.



45
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 21
A.    Consoldating the Restructuring of the Bakding System
23.    As meioned above, during 1993 the GOM maintained a dialogue with the    iercil  banks while
carrying out tecaical suhdie designed to identi  ways to definitively rhabilitate the banking systrn. These
technical studies received substantial support from the World Bank, which helped to finance themn. The GOM
felt that, in wihdawing fromn the banking system, it was mcumbent upon it to bear part of the restructurn costs.
However, all bank owners were coaned to make a substantial contribution in order to restore the financial
heal oftheir respectve institutions.
24.    The cost of rehabilating the conmercial banks has thus been bome by the pnvate owners as well as by
the GOM. The GOMNs involvement was due to the following considerations: (i) the GOM could not withdraw
fromn the sector without bearing part of the rehabilitation costs, having regard to its responsibility as a forner
shareholder with, in the case of one bank (BNM), a major role in management, and (ii) the banks' losses were due
in large part to non-repaymt of loans by public nterprises. This being so, the cost to the GOM was UM 4
billion, which ills within the budgetary and monetary limits established in the Policy Framework Paper. By way
of coparson, the costs borne direcdy by the odher owners of the banks total so far the equivalent of UM 4.55
billion. Following the payment of UM 2.3 billion to BNM in the form of bonds and cancellation of liabilities to
the Central Bank, the GOM became the owner of a portfolio previously held by the BNM with a nominal value
equivalent to the same amount These credts were added to those of the UBD which are managed by the ARCB
(Agence pour le recouvrement des creances bancaires).
25.    The GOM's strategy for succsfl implementation of the conunercial banks restructuring program for
commercial banks is based on the followingmeasures:
(a)    Bad debt recovery. The GOM has drawn up a plan of recovery of bad debts held by the
ARCB, with the following recovery targets:
-      December 31, 1994: UM 600 million
-      Deceaber 31, 1995: an additional IUM 800 million
-      December 31, 1996: an addidonal UM 700 million
The first recovery target, that of 1994, has already been met. The above timetable represents a realistic
recovery plan compared with the targets adopted at the begmining of 1993. This is mosty due to the delays in the
transmiission of loan files from the BNM to ARCB; the process was completed in October 1994. Note however
that according to an analysis performed by several experts, the proposed recovery ratio represents the nmximum
that could be expected, given the poor quality of the loan documtation delivered to the GOM. It should be
noted also that the banks themselves are successfully pursuing recovery of the loans remain in their portfolio.
(b)    Compulsory recapitation of all banks. The GOM has already notified all the banks that
they will have until March 31, 1995 to complete thewir recapitalization so as to bring them into comnpliance with
the capital adequacy ratio in force (8 percent of assets), taking into account the data deriving fiom the
comnpulsory audits completed in January 1995. On the basis of these audits and with the increase in BNM's
capital, all banks have been adequately recapitalized. A additional capital incrase of UM 700 million has also
been decided by the Board of BAMIS. Said capital will be paid up during the first half of 1995.



46
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 21
(c)    Submission of mediun-term financial programming plans to the Central Bank by all the
banks, detailing their strategies to ensure profitability. The GOM also informed the banks that they are
required to present to the Central Bank before March 31, 1995 financial prograniung plans suummzig their
strategy for regaining profitability. Note hat this represents the final stage of the financial restructuring of the
banks, which are henceforth private (except for one of then) and completely autonomous. These plans are the
exclusive responsibility of the prmary banks. Said plans were received and are being used as guidelines for
evaluating future financial performance by the banks. The plans will furnish a point of departr so that by the
bank supervision authority can evaluate the banks' evolution in terms not only of financial accounting but also of
implementation of a coherent strategy for regaining their profitability. This will make it possible to set up
indicators whereby crises can be anticipated well in advance.
26.    The GOM is consulting with the World Bank in order to implement a debt reduction operation for short-
term external loans. Completion of this operation can only strengthen the financial situation of the entire banking
systen. Concerning the part of the debt not covered and deposited in ouguiyas by the banks with the Central
Bank, the GOM wishes to deal with this problem in close consultation with the World Bank.
B.    Strengthening Bank Management and Staff Skills
27.   In parallel with strengtening of the financial sector regulatory framework, the GOM intends to require
the banks to undertake major capacity strengthening of their capacity so as to avoid repetition of the past mistakes
that led to the deterioration in the financial situation of the banking sector. This will be done by setting up,
taining courses, under the aegis of the Central Bank and with the technical and financial assistance of the World
Bank under its Capacity Building Project (CBP) for the financial and private sectors. The training courses will
be of two kinds:
(a)    Professional training, which will take place in a training center where the emphasis will be
placed initially on training of truainers, designed to provide continuous training of bank management and line staff.
The training will comprise local courses covering, inter alia, the following topics: loan approval procedures,
bank accounting, liquidity management, resource mobilization, documentation of credits and internal auditing.
(b)    Diploma training, spread over three years, designed to train the banks' future managernent and
line staff.
28.    The banks will be required to participate in the professional training courses, which they will later be
able to strengthen by means of internal training courses tailored to their specific needs and long-tern stategy.
C.    Incentive Framework for the Fmancial Sector
29.   In order to redress the problems stemning from the relative lack of incentive to Mauritania's financial
sector to nobilize savings and the limited financial deepening of its econornic systen, the GOM will continue to
implemet the following measures:
(a)    Maintenance of a positive.interest rate in real terms. At the same time, the banks will continue
to be entirely free to set their deposit rates, the ceiling on six-nonth deposits (7 percent) having been abolished in
January 1995.
.



47
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 21
(b)    Continuation of the periodic public treasury bond auctions instituted in June 1994, as provided
for in the program contained in the Policy Framework Paper. The creation of a treasury bonds market fumishes
an important instrument for both management of the public debt as well as the conduct of monetary policy. At
the same time it makes it possible to set up a true money manket, enabling the banks to manage their surplus
liqudity, and this will encourage them to mobilize resources. It is also expected, in view of the development of a
market for Treasury debt instruments, that monetary policy will inrenasingly be implemented through indirect
instunmts of control. This will make it possible to reexamine the reqired reserve ratio and gradually to
abandon credit ceilings on individual banks by the end of 1996. To ensure tansparency and encourage wider
participation in bond auctions, the results are now published in the newspapers and the mininum purchase
amount has been substantally reduced. To encourage the development of a secondary market, the Central Bank
has stated that it is prepared, effective January 1, 1995, to intervene on the market in order to enlauge it and to
unplenent monetaly policy. The monetary policy instruments will be increasingly linked to the functioning of the
marwk, in accordance with the nchanisms devised, with the assistance of the IMF, in February 1994. Since
Septernber 1994 this has included access to a Central Bank rediscount window based on Treasury instrurents
within the fiamework of mnonetary policy constraints as laid down in consultation with the IMF. The ceiling on
lending rates has been relaxed. This rate has risen frorn 18 percent to 20 percent at the end of 1994.
(c)    Maintenance of the system of incentives to banks to mobilize deposits of Mauritanians living
abroad, i.e. authorization to the banks to freely deploy the foreign exchange captured through these accounts.
D.    Investnent Financing
30.    Since the liquidation of the UBD, the countrys only development financing agency, the Mauritanian
financial systern has been characterized by the absence of long-tern resources, the only ones suitable for finance
investrent projects. In light of the great need for such financing, as evidenced by the banks' current volume of
lending operations, the GOM considers it urgent and essential that a mechanusm be set up through which to
alleviate the cunrent deficiencies and promote the creation of new instuments.
31.    To this end the GOM, with the support of the World Bank, undertook a study of this question which
focused on examination of possible mechanisms and comparison with experience in other countries. The study,
and the ensuing dialogue with the World Bank, yielded a number of inportant recommndations, including the
following:
(a)    Emphasis needs to be placed on mobilizing Mauritanian and foreign savings. This includes
savings of Mauntanians resident in the country itself (particularly rural savings, in which local banks are
beginning to show interest), savings of Mauntanians living abroad, and foreign savings which could be channeled
through local financing mechnism  if the latter prove to be attractive.
(b)    The possibility should be. examined of setting up an investment bank, on condition that the
GOM's shareholding in it is limited (a maximum of 20 percent would be desirable) in order to avoid a repetition
of the UBD situation.
(c)    The possibility should also be considered of setting up a specialized institution (for camnple, a
housing bank). on condition that it is adequately capitalized, that there is limited governnent participation and
that its activities are closely mnonitored, particularly with respect to asset/capital ratio.



48
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 21
(d)    In order to promote long-term financing, the feasibility of seting up a guarantee fund should be
studied, on condition that it not be financed out of budget resources or counterpart funds.
(e)    SME (small and mediwn enterprises) financing could be promoted through the formation of
mutualist groups whose primary purpose would be to mobilize the savings of the members of the group and
channel them toward the most promising uses.
32.    These conclusions reflect the GOM's policy as expressed in the new Banking Law. At the same timn lhe
GOM feels that it would be appropriate to cariy out a more detailed examination of the issuzs raised b !e
above-nentioned study and to pursue the dialogue with the World Bank concerning them, with a *iew inter a:ia to
harnessing the support of private investors and donors for the next stage of development of the financial secwc -.
33.    To this end the GOM, under the CBP, will carry out a second study, with the following objectives: (i) a
more thorough analysis of the prospect for savings mobiization; (ii) an appraisal of various alternative ,Nnys to
finance investment, given that certain circles in the Mauritanian and foreign private sector have shown interest;
(iii) an examination of the role of institutional investors (insurance companies, social security, postal checking
service-CCP) and of ways of steering them toward the financing of investment, and (iv) preparation, Aiiere
appropriate, of material for promoting approved courses of action among private investors.
34.    The GOM undertakes, in light of the findings of that study, to pursue the dialogue with respect to the
second stage of development of the financial sector. It will coordinate its sectoral development strategy with the
World Bank.
E.    Regulatory Structure
35.   In view of the prime importance of strict application of a coherent, clearly-defined and adequate set of
prudential regulations, the GOM has already instituted an intensive program of action to strengthen the structure
of regulation and oversight of the banking sector.
36.    Under the aegis of the IMF, the GOM has lhunced a process of stegtheing the Central Bank's
management and line personnel skills. This effort has also been supported by a grant from the Bank's
Institutional Development Fund. With financial support from the IMF, the Central Bank has recruited an expert
adviser on supervision of banks and banking oversight. In parallel, the Institutional Development Fund grant has
enabled the Central Bank to review the current banklng regulations, the procedures through which the regulations
are applied and the banking accounting plan.
37.    With the suppon of the World Bank through the IDF grant, the Central Bank has carried out the
following: (i) the launching of training courses for Central Bank management and staff covering banklng
oversight, internal auditing and information system; (ii) the preparation of bank supervision and bank portfolio
appraisal manuals, and (iii) the improvement of the information system as well as the establishment of bank data
transmission procedures.
38.    A draft revision of the Banking Law has been prepared, covering provisions relating to the granting of
loans to bank shareholders, to managers and to staff, and to increase disciplinary penalties for failure to Iomly
with the rules of sound management as defined by the banking regulations. This draft law, which has been the
a



49
ANNEX n1
Page 9 of 21
subject of discussions with the World Bank, will be finalized m consulation with the Bank and will be presned
to Parliamet at its next session in June 1995.
39. The Central Bank wll require the banks to be in comphance witi the banking regulations by June 30,
1995, on wiich date it will begin to apply the penalties instituted at the beginning of the year. From that date, the
tansmission of bank data, preparation of on-site and off-site inspection reports, and application of the bank
accounting plan will be effected in conformity with the procedures established during 1994.
40.    By the end of 1995 the Central Bank, with the help of the World Bank through the CBP, wil have
updated the Credit Risk Infomaton System (Centrale des Risques) and the Credit Affears Information Systern
(Centrale des Imray)s), using a mnore highly developed information system. These two centers will improve the
avaiability of data on borrowers and enable the banks to check on the financial status of each loan applicant and
the existence of any other debts already secured by the collateral offered by the applicant.
41. It should be added that the regulatory structure of the bankig sector will also be strengthened with
support from two components of the Bank's Capacity Building Project (CBP): first, revision of the national
accounts chart and strengthening of the accounting and auditng professions, and second, revision of the business
legislation (for example, to facilitate application of the debt recovery law) and s1trgthning of legal staff
capacities.
II., REFORMS SUPPORTING THE PRIVATE SECTOR
42.    A cornerstone of the GOM's strategy of promoting the growth of the private sector consists of action to
encourage private-sector activity in the frmn of measures to improve the incentives systern, reform the regulatory
flmework and strengthen the institutional framework.
43.    The GOM's approach is based on the hyothesis that Mauritania's private sector is best able to create the
jobs necessary to absorb the labor force created by a growing population. The sector is moreover destined to play
a key role in export expansion, necessary to inprove Mauritania's external situation. The GOM's objective is
therefore to promote private-sector activity in general and encourage export growth in particular.
A.    Improvement of the Incentive Framework
44.    The restauration of mnacroeconomic stability which has taken place during the last few mnonths represents
a substantal improvement in the fnamework of incentives to private activity. The estimated inflation rate for
1994 of 3.8 percent nmens that it will be much easier for private entrepreneurs to progrmr their activities. The
relatively low inflation rate since the 27-percent devaluation of the ouguiya in October 1992 enhances the
economic competitiveness of activities based in Mauritania.
45.   In addition, the progressive deregulation of prices and trade opens up the prospect of an increasingly
distortion-free economic system in which relatve prices reflect the economic costs of production. The GOM has
decided to put the emphasis on improving the other types of ientives to private economic activity. The main
target of the GOM's proposed reforrn is the foreign exchange system. The GOM has stepped up its efforts to
liberalize the exchange system since 1992, for example by abolishing export licanses and the prefettial
exchange rate accorded to Mauritanians iving abroad. Note that the differenti between the official exchange
rate and the parallel rate has narrowed substantially since the October 1992 devaluation.



50
ANNEX I
Page 10 of 21
46.   In February 1993, the GOM institud an auction system for licenses to import, limid to imports
financed by the Central Bank. Since March 1994, the commercial banks have been authorized to hold foreig-
exchange aconts abroad, to which they have access to pay for imports. Also friom that date, exporters have
access to 5 percent of foreign exchange receipts firm exports of services and 10 percent of those from goods
exports.
47.    From July 1, 1994 the GOM widened the auction systen to include all imports except fuel and fishing-
sector imports. It should be noted that the effect is to raise the proportion of exchange operations covered by the
auction systen from 49 to 60 percent of the total controlled by the Central Bank (the part not controlled by it
consists essentially of imports covered by foreign exchange receipts freely available to the SNIM).
48.    Fromn September 1994 the pcentge of access by exporters were doubled, to 10 percent for services
and 20 percent for goods. Also noteworthy is the creation of 12 foreign exchange offices on March 31, 1995,
with the authorizataon of the Central Bank. At the same time, the scope of the operations in which the
co*mmecial banks may engage on the free market has been widened to include foreign exchange purchases for the
slement of goods and services import transactions and current private transfers.
49.    A study will be conducted by the end of April 1995, with the help of the IMF, to identify the modalities
of a unified exchange rate system. Exchange rate policy will be directed to narrowing the gap between the official
rate and that of the free market and the paralle market, with the objective of eliminag the practice of multiple
exchange rates by the end of December 1995. The improvement in the external current account, the total
elimination of public and private extemal arrears in 1995, the reform of the fishing sector and the application of
singent budgetary and monetaLy policies should facilitate exchange rate unification and the transition toward a
more liberal exchange systern and prepare Mauritaia to accept the provisions of Article VIII (sections 2 through
4) of the IMFs Articles of Agreement.
B.    Inslitutional Framework
50.    To improve the dialogue between the Government and the private sector, the GOM proposes to set up a
private-sector consulation mechanism. This structure will bring together representatives of the private sector,
ensure continuous and open dialogue between the governmrent and the private sector and help the GOM and the
donors to define their policy of support to the sector.
51.   In 1994 the GOM carried out a study, financed by the Japanese grant administered by the World Bank
aimed at designing the best possible scheme for setting up an institution that would serve as spokesmnan for the
private sector in any dialogue with the GOM, furnish support to private-sector operators and investors, both
Mairitanian and foreign, that seek to play a role in the econormy, and help donors to channel their assistance to
the private sector. The conclusions of this sudy were the basis of important discussions between the authorities
and the Bank. It was subsequently decided to undertake the following action: (i) to designate the Charnber of
Commerce as the privatew-sector support agency; (ii) to take the necessary steps, with the financial assistance of
the World Bank, to reorganize of the Chamber of Commerce, including its charter (before end-1995) as an
autonomous insition, and dte choice, by dlection, of a new president; (iii) to select and train the Charnbees staff
and procure the necessary equipent to enable the Chamber to be functional by June 1996, and (iv) to train the
Chamber's staff and, in consultation with representatives of the private sector and the donors, set up mechanisms
enabling the Chamber to contribute to the promotion of the private sector.



51
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 21
52.    Another study was conducted in 1994, again financed by the Japanese grant administered by the World
Bank, to assess the feasibility of settn up one or more free trade zones or systens witin Mauritania. This
feasibility study showed that a free trade regime (systOme de points francs) for new exporters is urrently the
most suitable way of acxmplishing this purpose under the socioeconomic conditions prvailig in Mautania.
Such a system could help greatly to promnote export-oriented production, especially for food products, in which
Mauritam possesses a conmarative advantage. The GOM therefore proposes to conduct a detailed study of the
feasibility of such a systm, again under the CBP. The study will seek to define the arrangements for setting up
free trade points, particularly with respect to the necessay adinisratve, legal and regulatory measures. A
decision whether to set up such a scheme will be taken by June 1996 at latest. If it is decided to do so, a deadline
of Decenber 1996 is envisaged by which to establish the free trade points systen and adopt the necessary
reguaions.
C.    Business Laws and Regulations
53.    The GOM considers it essential, as a basic condition for injecting dynami  into the private sector, that
an appropriate legislative and regulatory fiamework be created that ensures legal security in the conduct of
business, inviolability of contracts, recoverability of bank loans and transparency of and better access to laws and
regulations.
54.    With this in mind the GOM has conducted a study, financed by the Japanese grant administered by the
World Bank, designed to identify the essential components of a program of reforrn of the legal and judiciary the
fiamework. The study yielded a detailed analysis of the deficiencies of the cunrent systen, together with a
cormprehensive plan of action covering: (i) the revision of laws and regulations that create problems in the
conduct of business; (u) the implementation of an ambitious program  of training of judges, lawyers and paralegal
personnel, and (iii) the development of a data base to provide an exhaustive compendium of Mauritanian laws,
their regular and speedy publication in the Official Gazette (Joumnal Offciel) and the incorporation of the
compendium into an international infornation network. On the basis of these recommendatbons the GOM
negotiated World Bank financing, under the CBP, of the following components of the reform of laws and
regulations goveming the private sector.
(a)    The revision of the principal eemens of the regulatory franework relaing to business, in
accordance with the very detailed rfommdations produced by the above-mentioned study, in order to furnish
an environment favorable to Mauritanian and foreign private investment. The most important part of the
technical work will be launched durnng the coming months with a view to adopting the new versions of the
commercial and investment codes, an inproved set of arbitration rules and clearly-defined bankruptcy rules,
among odher legal refomns, by December 1996. This will be accompanied by the establishment of a commercial
register (of property).
(b)    The strngtig of the legal institutions, in accordance with the recommendations of the
abovemioned study, and implementation of a program of training for judges and paralegal staff; this program
will be started in January 1966.
(c)    The establishment of a data bank on legal texts and regulabions in effect in Maunia, using a
classification system that ensures rapid and easy access; the manual necessary to this operation is scheduled to be
ready by December 1995.



52
ANNEXII
Page 12 of 21
(d)    Also under the CBP the       ni       expected by Decanber 1995, of the accounig
prfession by preprn a plan of action and idenfg the necessary cmpnents of a program to stug_  the
accouning and auding framwork; revision of the national accountig plan and the mndatoxy auditing rules,
and preparton of a new accounting procedures manual, by April 1996; promwtion of the accounting profession
thrwgh the adopon, by April 1996 at the latest, of profissional standards that  sure a high quality of serv,
and tran  of audit  and accoutants, to be spread over the years 1996 and 1997.
IV. FISHING SECTOR
55.   In 1993 the fishing sector acounted for 48 percent of Mauritania's total current receipts (excluding
official transfs); realiation of the sector's potenial ranks among the GOM's highet priorites. The rmt faSll
in fidsey Cepot reep  underscores the irnportance of speedy inpleentaton of the GOMfs plan of action.
Refrm of the fishing sector forms an ingral part of the GOM's prograrn. Its sectoral development strategy is
descrd in detail in the separate ktter of development policy for the fishing sector.
V. MINING SECTOR
56.    Mnuritan  enjoys favorable geologic conditions, such that the mining cor reprsents a major source
of natonal wealth  A number of mincralized zones (notably gold and copper deposits) have been identified in
Maitana inteest on the part of geological investors is relatively low, however, owing to the iadequacy of
available geologic data and the limitaions of resources available to the government agencies responsible for the
sector.
57.    Deposits of gold and certain base metals have been worked for a number of years or have recently been
discovered within the subregion (Malib-Ghana). It is therefore hoped that Mauntaunia, with a legal and tax codes
fiSmework that is cQmpetive in light of international practices and with an adequately developed geologic data
base, will cxperience strong growth in the precious and non-fermus metals sector.
58.    Murtanias mining industry is curntly dominated by iron ore which, with reerves totaling seveal
billion tons, will continue to occupy a leading place in the economy during the decades to come. Tlhe World Bank
has vigusly supported the development of this activity and has carried on a sustained dialogue with the GOM
oocerning vways to promote investment in the mining sector. In light of these discussions the GOM has drawn up
a sectoral development program with the following major components:
(a)    Fomumabn in consultation with the World Bank, of a strategy for the mnifng sector that spells
out the sectors development goals, together with the necessary incentive measwues to make it more atractive to
private invetors; this sbategy will be formally adopted in Decenber 1995.
(b)    Adoption of kgal and tax fianwworks that are competitve with those of other mining-oriented
cotries; the new mining and tax codes applied to mning wiDl be adopted by December 1996.
(c)    Strengtheng of the genmet istitions  spnsible for regulation and oversight of the
minng sector, to that end, the GOM proposes to adopt and apply new procedures witin the Mining Dizaorat
(Direction des Mines) by June 1966, together with new cadastal procedures which will take effect in March
1997.



53
ANNEX 
Page 13 of 21
(D)    Finally, taining of Mining Directorate staff, in 1995 and 1996, in order to shg n the
Diutorate's skills base and make govemnlt staff aware of investos' nwods and intratial m gindustiy
staidards.
VI. MACROECONOMIC AND SECIORAL FRAMEWORK
59.    The adjustmrt prgraomn for the financial and private sectors fonns an inteal part of the GOMs ovmali
adjusment progrn, set forth in the 1995-97 medium-tenn ecomomic and financial policy fianework paper
approved by the IMF and the World Bank in January 1995. The  n-        fmework as defined in that
policy lkr, particularly the chapters on private-sector and investment promoto policy, dcvd ent staegy
for the fishing and mining sectors, and financial and credit policy, is comnpatble with the objctives of the
financial and private sectors adjustment project.
Wasington,                   1995
H.E. Mr. Mohamed Lemine Ch'Bih Ould Cheikh Melainine
Ministre du Plan



54
ANNEX I
Page 14 of 21
Islamic Republic of Mauritamia
LETTER OF SECITOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FOR THE FISHERIES SECTOR
(Translated from French)
I.    As part of the ongoing and open dialogue established in 1985 with the international donor
community, the Govemrnment of Mauritania sets out below the thrust of its policy to revitalize the fisheries
sector based on sustainable and balanced development.
Background
2.     Since 1985, with the support of the international donor community, the Govenunent of Mauritania
has worked to overcome the adverse effects of the economic and financial crisis of the 1980s and to
remodel its economy on the bases of competitiveness and social betterment within a framework of greater
institutional democratization and respect for the major macroeconomic equilibrium.
3.    Given the importance of fish resources to the general development of the country in terns of value
added, budget receipts and inflows of foreign exchange, the Government has formulated a development
policy tailored to that sector.
4.    Following a number of studies and analyses, in April 1987 the Government adopted a development
policy statement for the fisheries sector, which focused on the rational economic utilization of the country's
resources in the Exclusive Economnic Zone (EEZ), based on a new system of access and exploitation that
facilitated the integration of fisheries activities into the national economy.
Performance
5.    The implementation of the new fisheries policies dramatically reshaped the sector, by opening the
way for:
(a)   the establishment of a national industrial-scale fleet for deep-sea fishing, i.e. 110 cold
storage vessels and 45 refrigerated trawlers;
(b)   the development of a traditional fishing fleet;
(c)   the construction of onshore freezing and storage facilities;
(d)    an increase in national production;
(e)   the introduction on international markets of Mauritanian fish products with a higher value;
(f)    national benefits in terms of jobs and products with a higher value added.
6.    In tandem with these encouraging developments, the sector faced4najor problems, namely:
(a) over-indebtedness with the banks;
(b) obsolescence of a portion of the national fleet;
(c) insufficient resources for scientific research;



55
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 21
(d) overfishing of the preferred target species.
7.    In an effort to inject new life into the sector, the Government has just fonrulated a new sectoral
policy. This letter of development policy sets forth its objectives and strategies.
Maior objectives
8.     The Government's objectives for the sector will henceforward be prioritized as follows:
8.1   compile data and ensure the preservation and protection of fish resources through rational
management and surveillance to ensure their continued availability;
8.2   turn the fisheries sector into a catalyst for growth in GDP by maximizing value added, in particular
through the processing of products, vocational training and creation of local jobs;
8.3    maximize net foreign exchange gains:
(a)    by increasing and diversifying sector exports through new products, access to new markets
and constant upgrading of quality;
(b)    by reducing the foreign exchange costs of sector operations (foreign labor, ship repair,
refueling);
8.4   ensure that the sector generates an optimum volume of tax receipts.
Strate6ies
9.    With a view to achieving these objectives, in accordance with the measures contained in the
Economic Policy Framework Document, the Government - together with its development partners - will
implement a consistent strategy supported by an action plan specifying the measures to be taken as well as
an appropriate investment program for the various branches of activity in the fisheries sector.
A.    Research of Fisheries
10.   Despite the efforts by the Centre National de Recherches Oceanographiques el des Peches
(CNROP), data on fish resources remain insufficient with regard to biological balance, reproduction and
balanced economic exploitation of target species.
11.   With a view to increasing the data on fish resources for the ultimate goal of rational and prudent
resource management, the CNROP needs to be reorganized and strengthened, which would entail a
reformulation of its missions.
12.   This reformulation and strengthening of the CNROP's mission would cover three main areas in
particular:
(a)    better knowledge of the fisheries sector environment with fornulation of periodic research
plans and the establishment of a specialized, multidisciplinary team;



56
ANNEX f
Page 16 of 21
(b)    resource management through the issuance of fishery maps, classification of commercial
species in terms of biological properties and availability, evaluation of the permissible annual catch in view
of changes in potential, a study of the most appropriate fishing equipment and the monitoring of its impact
on the resource;
(c)    sanitary control of onshore plants and products of the sea, in the form of authorization of
handling companies and health certification of products in accordance with international standards.
13.   The following measures have already been carried out:
(a)    a decree dated March 2, 1994 has reorganized and redefined the mission of CNROP;
(b)    a five-year development plan covering the period 1993-1998 has been formulated outlining
main direction in CNROP's research. Said plan has been supplemented with an increase in the budgetary
allocation allowing for its implementation.
(c)   the scientific views of CNROP concerning the permissible level of fishing has been
officially published.
B.    Maritime surveillance
14.   To improve the protection of fish.resources, the Government has created, at the Ministry of Fishing
and Maritime Economy, a department responsible for surveillance and oversight at sea, in accordance with
Decree 94.125 issued December 31, 1994. In this context, the Government has decided:
(a) to transfer budgetary resources and equipment from the Fishing Command to this department,
which will enjoy the necessary autonomy in the financial, personnel and resources areas, and will be in
charge of enforcing compliance with laws and State regulations at sea.
(b)   to amend the fisheries and merchant marine codes as necessary in order to better reflect
new aspects of maritine activity (rescue and pollution control) and ensure that proper disciplinary
measures are taken in the event of violations, as well as the effective collection of penalties;
(c)   to strengthen the airborne and sea-going capacity in order to improve the scope and quality
of maritime surveillance.
(d)   to insist on absolute respect of fishing zones and of limits and fishing equipment as
recommended by CNROP.
(e)   to collect fines (equivalent to 80 percent of fines due at a minimum) accrued by violators
during the previous fiscal year.



57
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 21
15.    Missions
In addition to fisheries surveillance, which is its main function, the department will:
(a) combat marine pollution;
(b) wipe out illegal manine trade;
(c) enforce national legislation and regulations related to vessel safety and hygiene;
(d) participate in sea rescue operations.
16.   Institutional framework
The Marine Surveillance and Oversight Department will be attached to the Ministry of Fisheries
and Maritime Economic Activities. It will have financial and functional autonomy.
17.    Sea and air caacitv
The Department will be provided with appropriate resources, which will be supplemented by a
procurement and replacement program.
18.    Personnel
The Department's manning table will include the military personnel necessary to crew the ships,
aircraft and radar stations that will be assigned to it in accordance with current regulations.
19.    Cost and financing
The maritime surveillance budget has three chapters:
(a)    normal operations, covering the wage bill as well as the operating costs connected with
surveillance equipment;
(b)    maintenance costs, including careenage and servicing of surveillance equipment;
(c)   the investment program, including new purchases of equipment.
The surveillance operating budget is financed exclusively from the State budget. The Government
is seeking donor assistance for the financing of the last two chapters.
20.    Violations
The Government will revise the Fisheries Code as it relates to maritime surveillance so as to
include, in particular for serious infractions, mandatory re-routing of ships and the posting of a mandatory
temporary bond equivalent to the applicable minimum penalty prior to any legal proceedings or
administrative action, for which the cases will be precisely defined. Likewise, the procedure for penalty
collection will be both strengthened and streamlined. In addition, the pertinent judicial and administrative
personnel will receive appropriate training in fishing violations.



58
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 21
C.    Resource manaiement
21.    As of January 1, 1995, the Government will implement a new fish resource management system,
taking into account both economic and biological considerations. The Governnent's primary concern is to
avoid the risk of overfishing, which can threaten the very existence of fish resources, and to optimize
exploitation in terms of the economic results for Mauritania. The new system will be applied to the two
main types of export-oriented fishing, i.e. demersal (deep-sea) and pelagic (surface) species.
22.    To that end, the Government will allocate the resource on the basis of the permissible potential and
the optimum fleet level, which will be set annually for each type of species.
23.    For bottom species fishing, the Government will introduce an access fee in 1995 that will gradually
replace, over a three-year period, current- taxation based on export duties. The access fee will stand at 2
percent (1995), then 8 percent (1996) and then I 1 percent (1997) of the estimated value of production. The
reform is intended to improve the efficiency of the national fleet, by introducing incentives for production
and fleet replacement, while simultaneously ensuring that the Public Treasury receives an appropriate level
of receipts. The first phase of this access rights regime has begun to be applied under Finance Law 1995.
In this context, the Government will continue the study of the tax system as it applies to fisheries so as to
assess its efficacy.
24.    For surface species, the Government wishes to provide access to this significant resource to all
interested parties and in particular those who are potential investors in onshore processing. Open licenses
have been offered via international competitive bidding as of September 1, 1994.
25.    Capture quotas  will be determined annually by the Minister of Fisheries, who is also the
competent authority for authorization of access to the resource. These fishing permits will be given
exclusively to boats. In addition, an auctioning committee for pelagic fishing licenses for national and
foreign operators has been instituted, and will also be in charge of monitoring access fees assessed against
the of demersal and cephalopod (both deep-sea species) fishing. This committee, presided over by the
Ministry of Fishing, comprises also the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank.
26.    The Government will encourage the development of coastal fishing which represents high value
added and new jobs. It will consequently make regular adjustments for the different types of species,
reflecting changes in traditional fishing. It will also help improve infrastructure for unloading and
processing, and ensure that storage and freezing capacities match the development of production. It will
encourage the renovation and adaptation of existing facilities to meet the dictates of product revaluation.
To that end, it will in particular promote commercial and industrial joint ventures for processing and
packaging plants. The Government will also imnplement the practical measures needed to implement the
plan for the privatization/liquidation of ALMAP and MAUSOV.
27.    The Government will use appropriate provisions to promote a climate attractive to foreign
investors, who can be instrumental in improving the integration of the fisheries sector into the national
economy. That effort will take the form of incentives under the general investment code, foreign exchange
legislation and corporate law.



59
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 21
D.    Sectoral infrastructure
28.    Sectoral production costs should fall following the improvements in common infrastructure.
Planned investments will be limited to the major basic infrastructure vital for sector promotion, so as to
preserve the major economic equilibrium as part of the ongoing structural adjustment process.
29.   In this context, the Government will build a pipeline in Nouadhibou to bring in diesel oil for boat
fuel. It will also complete its efforts to remove obstacles and plans to support the construction of a ship
repair yard.
30.    The Government wants to create a new fishing center in Nouakchott, in order to promote a more
geographically balanced and better distributed development of the fisheries sector. To that end, it plans to
construct a fishing wharf and related facilities that would help open up the coast.
31.   In the short term, it is also planned to establish two units that would provide rescue and fire-
fighting services at Nouakchott and Nouadhibou ports.
32.    Because of the priority now accorded to the export of fresh and processed products, the
Government will upgrade the airstrips at.Nouakchott and Nouadhibou and will build in-bond cold storage
facilities there.
E.    Sector financing
33.    The Government would like the donor community to make funding available for the financing of
investments (ships, rehabilitation and new projects) and lines of credit to meet the sector's financing needs.
F.     Marketing
34.   In order to improve marketing, the Government has decided to liberalize the exportation of all fresh
products in any form as well as processed products such as filleted, salted, dried and pressed fish. The
liberalization of processed demersal fish will be carried out gradually. Such liberalization will be consistent
with the regulations and practices protecting the interests of the national economy (foreign exchange,
taxation, brand image).  In particular, the rules of international trade must be respected and private
economic interest groups promoted.
35.    All products frozen onshore or at sea other than pelagics remain the exclusive domain of the
Fishery Marketing Board (SMCP), to allow for economies of scale and to avoid any fragmentation of
supply in a very specific market. The privatization of 65 percent of SMCP was completed in September
1994, and will be accompanied by the strengthening of control of exports of fish products.
36.    To promote foreign trade, in association with sector agents, the Government will establish a Fish
Export Promotion Center (market identification, clientele research, tracking of prices on the international
market and at unloading). It will also apply the required hygienic and sanitary standards to fish products
destined for export.



60
ANNEX n
Page 20 of 21
G.    Vocational trainine
37.   With a view to short-, medium- and long-term human resource management planning through
consistent tramnig projects, the Government has drafted a four-year training and emnployment plan, which
will seek to develop national resources in line with the demand for skilled labor in the sector.
38.   In related sectors, the Government will develop basic, advanced and continuing training in order to
upgrade skills in those sectors.
39.   With a view to improving the latter stages of training, the Government has also approved
legislation and regulations that would make it mandatory for all crews on board ships flying the
Mauritanian flag to include two trainees (a student officer and a trainee crew member).
H.    Institutional and incentives framework
HJ.   Institutional framework
41.   The success of the fishery policy hinges largely on the institutional capacity for resource
management, oversight and in particular regulation of fishing. Together with a strengthening of research,
surveillance and training capacities, the Ministry of Fisheries will be restructured and given resources
commensurate with its objectives.
42.   A new Merchant Marine Code has been adopted in December 1994 ed in order to improve the
administration of sector activities and implementing decrees will be adopted to supplement existing
legislation.                                           a
43.    One of the priority tasks of the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economic Activities will be to
promote and reorganize the sea-going trades in order to ensure that training leads to the actual employment
of a growing number of Mauritanian seamen and officers.
44.   In addition, Mauritania will seek to improve international cooperation in fishing matters. In this
connection, it will strengthen its consultation with its partners on the management of migratory species.
H.2  Incentives framework
45.   The investment code, which is now being revised, will strongly promnote the development of coastal
fishing, product processing, joint ventures and the introduction of appropriate taxation.
46.   In addition, steps will be taken to control the price of sector inputs. Tle Government will also
encourage all those working in the sector to buy locally produced inputs and to use supply pools for the
sake of economies of scale.
47.   The Govenmment will maintain ongoing consultations with the private sector, which will take the
form of more frequent contacts culminating in conferences and workshops on sector-related issues.



61
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 21
I.     Fishinf-related occuDations
48.    The Govenmment will help improve organization among sector workers so that they are better
informed about resources and markets and are able to comply with the new standards required by the
international markets.
49.    Sector operators will be encouraged to join econornic interest groups (GIEs). One GIE, consisting
of producer-exporters of pelagic products, and another of producer-exporters of fresh, salted and dried fish,
will be created, with a participation by the State which cannot exceed 35 percent.
J.     Environment
50.    The Government plans to implement an appropriate strategy to protect the marine environment,
upon which the durable preservation of marine resources largely depends. It is in particular aware that
Mauritania's coast is an invaluable part of the world's marine assets.
51.    As marine environmental protection begins with an understanding of its parameters, scientific
research and monitoring programs will receive support. In this connection, the research conducted by the
CNROP in conjunction with the Banc d'Arguin (PNBA) will be supported and coordination among the
entities involved will be ensured so as to protect breeding areas in particular.
52.   With a view to eliminating polluting discharges into the sea, especially from hydrocarbons, the
enforcement of legislation will be tightened in tandem with the establishment of waste recovery capacity.
Washington,
H.E. Mr. Mohamed Lemine Ch'Bih Ould Cheikh Melainine
Ministre du Plan



ANNEX III
RINaui-itania                                                Page I of 5
Lrcrr s_nfic year          rc-Cr         toirit-
L rit Of                                   erzmm=      Sezer           L<r -      int ett
;oW    or                          ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~r=res:r  19 10' 7S  19JO4S     1987 97       Africa      inczrme        "ree:
Prorirv Poverrv Indicators
H:acrz_r.::r. :x~~~~~                  ofc. .P*-t.                                                            19
!rv, :r ;v:r-y1:.:                             local:r......
G?o? ;:r or:                         US5                  SCO          :CO         5 *O          no  jS 41
SHORT TZR.X% TI CO.ME l:DJC4 kTOR5
Cm --zr rcr.C:x                             l5t.-100                  .           6          1:             .            .
SOCLkL ENDICATORS
P:ii  x;cnrr-.d   an busic social secvns    % of CODP                                        4.0
.. r.: .                                   % 5;'.001 as: ;op.           19          49                       60          IQ;            .
.x(i;:~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: ic 50                                                        7 .9       1 i             .
-._.~~~                                                    ~    ~ ~ ~~~             ~     ~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~ 1;9  ot  6'  ;;
Mlorusi:v
L-: r.:-r.:rzlirt              p~~~~~e- 'ou. *ivc rir's  li. Ic        I -1 0      1!.7.        S990         -;3A         4S.O
Lr  r'.r..ur                                ..&C                                          156;         i60.0       ICS.1         5jl o
MICUscs                   .. apt Fouo                                             .. 55.0    i i. 5.0                   2. .
DPT                                                                    ..        '1.0        'S.0          54.6        tO.5            .
5.:ill marr.an-ian (undecr-S)                                            ..         1.0        ; L .0       21.4        ; ti             ..
UL i- sx;cz-:nc? y
To=i                                            vcy5                  40           A            4S'25                                  a
F-r3le adanmlc~                                                       3.1         3. '          .4          3.4          2.:          6.4
Torz tcr-diiy rate                          birt's per swaa            6.5         6.5          C.t          6.1         3.4          i.I
Supplementary Poverr Indicators
=:rCr.son social sc:Mrry            % of toui say cxp.            .            ..                       ...
'-or:-- s:::t;r.r  _vcrzg:                 /. c-on. icnvc pop.........
A:_.s; 3;i:   wr:atgr.toui                     %oftpop.               17.0          *-         6ei.0       41.1         6a.4
Cr5X:                          .                 ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~9t.0  7;.0  6 j.0  77.        S.9
.R_i                           *                 ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~10.0  .. 6j.0   27 3         60.i
A:=-; ~::.:lth :wr c                                                               O0             .        .0..
Populatioa vovhrt                  .   GN,-  per capita arowth rate    ,I               Development  im n
!  t -                       il           ~~~~~~~~~~Lifec x-=ncv
* _                             . *10 -                                       i~~~~~~~~l  ACs to safc wntcr
!;-5,-75     19tO t5      191-i2       i9 190-.5    19tO t5              19t v    i2
= .lue=ix                                                                                           %laurimftia
-    w-lincamc                                                                                      Loaw-inczm.c
_. :s:: ^ .n 1-%zcn_c goup. Scc thc in=ducac:n.



63
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
Morr
L=cm  trie Yew,              Fe--=I         Jaia-
L'nsl of
income         -VU.7
Resources and apenditures
KT-)L.k:N A730URCIS
P.-puivion [Mrr-199M                                                      1,371        1'r-9         2.0-19      546 3,90    3.194..135      942.54-7
0.16         0.19          0.94          0.95         0.67           M6
20.3         38.2         .19.6          29.5         :6.7           57.0
,Z:z                                                     :.4           2 1           2.7           2.9           1.9           1.4
9.2          7.2           5.5           3.1           3.4           4.3
Lator 'X-::                                                                              !;0                                 1..-,Z.;!4
77           69
9
113
lot
N.4.7LRAL RESOLIRC7-
hcu. s:. L-n         1.025-r      [.OZ!.!2      1,025.52    :.-'74.03    'S.-OL06    -0.69-
pea.        L                                                       21.9         Bi.?
'm             1.3          1.7           2.3
% of ',&:,.c =2           59.5         31.5          38.5          !Z.-
0.1          0.0           0.0           0.1          0.0
0.0          0.0           0.0           0.3        '.9.2
Tzr.su x-ld -OOd!Are   ...                       thou. S.-. L-1             46            '5            A4
0Cf-_7:S=-.r.                                      axtm:2i %                                           0.0
S..      Z.-     cf Cuszhalds                  !1. r                                                                              -2
5'-z.--                'house.holds                                                                                                3
-C-,ZM      -f hOU3ChQidS
EXI r- ',D r7-,".R 7-
Food                                              %    J-:) P
S=:es
N,ic-
C.-=:Li                                       thou. :.-:--'C =nnes
-ccd 1:d                                               V                    43                                    4.30i         9.008         _-.0-54
F.cd            :cr =iQ                           !987 - 100                86            ig            so           90
kVIa                   0.0          0.1           0.0           4.2         61.9
shir.               in G:;P                       %Ofoop                   26.7         20.0          Z., -9        13.6         29.6
Housing                                           %  arcop
Avtr-gt h0us---Old Si-                      ;=orLs pc. hcumb  Id                                      5
5.4
-Xcd nv!:%=n::t1_ hrL:si:,.g                     11. of CDP
Futf sad power                                    %  C( C-DP
-.v  _-tpitz               kg of oil Miv.              -0                         I oi         2!1           33i
%  Orhcuscholds                                       14.0
R
Tr2nizor- ind  communicadon                       i's of ciop
-hou. kn%
rN%--_rmtEN'T ,N- HL-NLk.4 CA-PIT-A-L
VC211h                                              ;---IC ra            11,125
::r :f:vs                                                                   8,645
z -.:: 2,; Mn  C                                                       3.745         I.IS2
Ir           1.0$0
-9
C--.u            t:t_-=y  (under-;                   a ::szg                                            54            36            i9
%  Of IC6001-81C pop.           4           15            14            is            Al
a           to            14            35
51           47            39            37
pupiis                                    :4             19            -            19
szzzrd=T                                                 24
.Zzzn:-.g 17:1:  4                                                    97           92            13
%                            is           is            zo             Y
%     O" ;op. (1g: IS-)                     73            66           5
%     of ft-1. (Ile U-)                     BA            09           62            52
S - I: - 7                                  PC- .!tau. acip.                                         1           14
0.,:Z



ANNEX  III
64                                             Page  3  of  5
KXUTIAS: Ke E:n:sic orcicaa
P? 1 cf 2
ism     S2      lSZ    1;    12        1i    1S9 9i    19;6    S ;7   ,9;             19R    20M    MM
TmO;  AaT s (as C   zrf MP at a.rw  lfiCXC    es)
p                                     i, ooi. _I      xo.o  lm.  lmo 1      1.O   i.0   T0.O  1Mo.0  1C1.0    C.o  1m.0  1C1.0  0.M.0
prysa           at f.s               2t.3     2;   2.6    3Z.9   24.7        .7      M&      MA   u          A      m       PA      PA
Da=-jiry swcw at f.:.       24.4      2     32    3.6   24.1    3.9          P              P       M       PA      A      P       PA
Tr       c   at f.:.                  .9    34.7   373    32    41.2    35           KA      A      PA      PA      P       IA     PA      P
4   iw     -w e                      10.5     9.6   10.3   103    10.0    1.9        9.7    9.7    9.7    92t    9.3    9.7    9.7    9.6
C micr                                93 t     8054   9%.4    0.0    t       533    93.5   87.l   8L3    E6    5-6    ES    8.4    ^.7
Cjr  czic isrom                       3.O    YL5    20.0   17.9   Z3.5    ZS.4   17.4   16.9   14.9   t5.4    15.4.   154    15.0   15.0
Amic rijm irn.-wr                     62      5.5    6.2    5.1    4.5      5.7    4.2    4.1    3.5    3.5        3.5     35      3.5    3.5
FriwtKe fiJa in4=w                   21.2    13.    13.7    12.    1 5.9   T7.7   13.2    123    11.4   11.9   11.9   11.9   t1.6   1t.5
ROSLM b-lia'm               -~~~~~11. t    J;9   -K.3    -7.9  *T3.2  -13.7   -7.9   -4.0   *3.2   -2.0   -l O    -1.2   *1.4.   -1.7
EA=rs WS                             51.2    503 t     4    ".    ltt    45.7   43.2    ".7    ".4    ".7    45.1    "3    " .O    Z. I
Tm G4F5                              630    %.7    60.7   523    5Z1    59.4   51.1    Q.7   47.6   46.7   46.1   46.0   .5.4    U.3
Gr    -wic swrs                    16.2   12.6    5.    10-0    7-2    9.?    9.5   12.9   11.7   T3.            V..  14 .2 I   13.6   13-
G-c  rutial savirs                     5.3      4.0   -1.5    3.2    3.9    2.3    3.6        7_     7.1     9.0    10 3    104    10.7   11.O
1ta:
MP at aLp. (Cusw LS fmilkim           95F7.4  9BI.5  10t9.6  11302  11W.6   WA.  li=.2  10;.I  1167.6  1247.7  133.   U;a.O  15w5.5  162 
MP pw c=ita (         LS)            5133   512.3   5172   5854  572.7  4433   4674 '4.6   5C3.0 52L3   5Z3.3   S4  SZ3  6S9.9
Awgag e'awV  ra  OJAW                  75-3    f3.1    a6    81.9   87.0   1@ It   M.6   124.9  12.6   1S.5   1Z7.3   122   122   13l.2
RLIC FlWa Cm Z of aP act           n   p-icu)
CGtwm   rMWi.  tcd. g )               24J9   23.1   24.6   2Z 2    19.4    3.6   24.7   32            .0 3O.0    25.0   as.0    2.9    7.0
TooL .m di zu    red L.ctliEr         31.7    33.7   31.9   2L9    24.8   365        Z.1    3.5    3i3    2.'    23 5    2.6    Z1.7   Z0.5
t.wull 5JtLa (*) or deficit (-)        -A    -10.6   -73       &7    -5.4  -11.0    2.4    -0.7    .7    1.6    2.5          3       5.2    6.5
Caiol ea u.u                           6 A     5.6    6.2    5.1    4.5    5.7    5.9    62          6.4     646    6.6    6.A          
Fowign firwcirg                        6.0     5.7     53      4.6    5.5    112      6.1    42      423    3.9    3.2    1.4        t       PA
(irt. s p  clax rie)
WA  AWA  GX67W ;A'r3 (SF5 prics) 
C-ss c3stic   s                        1.7     4.3   -1J       24      1.7    4.9    4.2        .3    4.4    4.5    4.5      4.5    4.5    4.5
Grss 3mstic in                         25      7.6   -3.1    7.5    2.A   -1a         7.5    0.5    42       4.4     4.5    4.9    4-9    4.3
;EX  AL  ;S CAPITA GWI  bAlU (1S5  -ricm) 0a
;-m  =renic pmlc,           -1.0     Z.0   -4.4   -0.2   -1.0    2.0    1.4        15      1.6    1.6      14      1.7    1.7    1.6
TcoL cr     ai cn. 61                          94      2.7    O.A    4i2   11.1    5.1   -6.1    346   -03    0C             2.3    223    1.7
Priv,sce C5tjrciGn                   4-6.5    114      2.3   -0.1    5.2   -23 I       6     -73     4.6     O.C     1.0    3.0    3.2    1.7
M3E7.1 MI CATUM
Veicceiz (MP/4) *.0                            3.9    3.5    34       3t      4.2    5.0    5.1       P       M        A      A       P      PA
G0m.-.n rate c# Pe CM                  22      '6      11.5    93     7.2    0.7   -7.9    6.3    IA          P       PA     MA      PA      P
'1Z.4    Si.4   117.2  112.9   4558    42.0   93.9  -41.1       P       M        A      IA     P       P
ff. n           Z-fXi1



ANNEX III
65                                             Page 4 of 5
,zuu-A: WE= anc !,i__.cz  (c='C'
P! 2 :r 2
ism     lop      9      IW   ,SIg               1St9X   Im      :95   *;JS  1Yi9i8  19R                 an
--------------.                         ---                        -      t.      n. '-------------------- Prjac              ---
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  QL7 4;1.2 MCJ                                                                                                      72 ml
S        WS                            U0.4   47    4.2   501.5   '.4   433.3   Q3.6 S           .32   51.1   2572    601.6   63MA   &.9 .2
d micn: m-i   tf.o.                  440.5   447.6 S   Z.2 4Z.9   414.3   3.9   4M..6 4S               455.3   413   S'.0    56.6    S5    S2.3
lfrca-s 2i5                            603.4   56.9   619.2   591.1   619.9    !.0   5. I   531.5   55.4   53!7   615.0   d5.3   SRL7   73Y.4
or %cmiPn:            :b.              9.9   353.1   'M.1   3%.7  4X.2 374.7   3.6    M2    346m6   35               c 371.6   4Y     43.9      .I1
2     bmx=                             -113.0    -5L2    .O    -a2.6  -157.5  -129.7   -l8J   -43      -373    X.2.9   134    - 1.9  .21.8   *X73
UK  1u      Twur                        -71.9   -f.3    -9.0  -61.2  -tL7   -9LT7  -58.   -61..  -61.0   -G-7   -6.1  -54.0  -.0   -56.6
df kiat 1. _i_      d.  =  dro)        7L9   1X2  9 25   12J    173.3   231.4    49.9    47.9   45.4    423    41.2    3.2    411.6             .9
lI CJTWm a   On  (pWi'ul               -2.2   -2S.7   -13.9   -15.4    27.2   -1.1    -2.5    1.0    6.6         83      10.2    102     14.5    Z.5
Cxr.  =  l.,f   afficial tawwfu   -Z13.1  -Y1422  -2189  -163   -197.1  -1W.5  -141.7  *13A1   41.6    -39   -63    -71.7  -h&.3   --.4
wt officiak rrwM                       1t50.3   25      a3     35.1    9L7   13    113.5    9.9   IC.4   1l.Z   109.S   114.5   116.7   11.0
C.rr. a    i., afnw  oicial trufs   -g2J 1CS.6 S .6   -52   -10r.4   -933   -3.2   -4.9   10.7    as.J    41.3    47    5.4    53-s
Ne futiqi cir= frwwc                     0.9     3.5     8.1     4.9    7.2    16,'       .9    4.5    3.7       4.1     4.7     52      5.7    6.3
Nc  LT L   >5a     du)                  50.2    2.7    11.7  -2*        47.5    53.0    16.0   29A    -5.2   -43.5   -59.4   -40.    -.4   *75
OfticiaL  et cza)                     67.9    37.6    52.1   3Z.9       .0   1G5.9    16.9    M.7    -4.4   -2.6    58.5   603    6L4   -75J
Priwe                                 -17.7   -X.9   -40.4  .485   -37.5   -S'9    -0.8   -1l    -0           -0.8    -0.9   -0.1   -0.0   -0.0
Cm   citt Circm.  -rms & aMssias)   -59.7  -4.8   -Z23          -242   -45.2   -31.4   -2Z6    .71o    .32   -11.2       8.       S.9    0.0    0.0
OA.uL tLw                           -71.4   -45.0  -1344   -12.0   -%.9   -54.9  -31.9  -4L0   -24.0   -23.5   -4.6    -34   -12.3   -6.0
Tcil firwcirg                       71.4    45.0    34.6   125.0    9..9   5%.9   31.9    QO        24.0    238       4.6     3.6   1Z.3    6.0
Tc de    in rnem    (- i      n)         8 9   -9.8    363   -272        11    21.8      53   -45.0  -t85   -B9.1   -5.9   -46.2   -7.6   -6 
N  cis f= du                           -4.0   -0.3    -43   -t32        35      5.7    182    -86    -9.9    -7.9    -7-5   -6.3    0.0    0.0
x otftic.rmAm do           ir irm )    12.9   -9.5    40.6  -14.0    -04    16.1   -13.0  -36.4  -5L6   -61.2   -5.4   -39.9   -7.6   -6.A
Ou'e in  7wi 4r irc-r)                  23.2   -XL4    73.7  147.4    MA   -237.1   -93.6  -101.2    0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Dir tie f                               393    9.2    24.6    4.9    5.1   W.2           6.6    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    C.0    0.0
Firw-iu ga                               0.0    -0.0     0.0   -0.0    -0.0      0.0   113.7  la2    9Z5    929    70.4    49.J    19.9    M.
.udmc It w.
G.-  rr.s, Y-ai (1Nit t licna)          6.3    87.0      L.5   71.7    6.0   49.0   61.9   933   1589   21.1   Z75   316A   32L0   3MJ
Q=  nminQS as ..    of iat a     s       1.1     1.7     1.0      13      1.1    0.9     13      2 0     3.0     4.0    4'        52     5.0    4.9
E=  0FS as  of aP                       512    M.8    4&4    44J.    3.8    45.7   43.2    ".7   '..            44.7   45.1    44.8    4.0   43.1
=     FS as X ofZp            63.0              5.7   60.7   5Z.3 SZ1    59.4   51.1   467    47.6   46.7    46.1    46,.0   45.4   -,.
P:        La   r  % S    aP            -11.8     5.9   -143    -7.9  -13.2   -t37    -7.9   -4.0   -3.2    -2.0    -l.0    -12    *1.4    1.7
WA LA G;CTN RtATES VMi trio) M;
P%wcix  ec , f.ob.                       0.9     02    -5.5   -5.1    -7.9   13.3   -14.6   13.7         3A      5.7     5.9     32      3.7    3.7
Crrn cm                               10.8    11.4     2.2    -6    -X4.6    21.1      8.3    9.5    0.        0.0     3.5     0.0    3.5    3.5
Fish                                  -7.6    -6      -12t2    -2.0    4.7     63    -35.5   21.5    12.5   12.5       L6      63      (..0 o   .0
lewO -    iIfAts , fo.  1/              -5.0     2.1    11.6   -3.0   l1.l   -10.6   -1.    -5.9    3.1          3.2     4.2     5.9    5.7    4.2
PRIM V.T= (15>1)al)
Ec mric i        .     0.0 M   )       115.4   117.1   117.0   127    131.X   112.0   16    124.1   13.6   13.7    M.8   1.9   1365    3J
Inr  iz irm,           4.0 OM  )       112.7 lOL4    111.5 lG9.1   1l3    107.9   119.7  13.1   1'2  127J    ta-3  131.0  t31.9  !3aJ
i= u   te    of d   t                  1M4   13.0   10.9   117.1   1Z.2  13.7   110.8    W 2   1m3    1m.7   101.2  IML2   1g.'   'M9
Rd    ei               c (M cb)         79.4    3L4    75.5   762  76.6           MA      M       MA      MA      M        A      MA      N       )A
C.,jm   :rice inem C ga' r aw)           13    13.0      6.5     5.6   10.1      93      3.7    3.5    3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0
C  cae tatcr M       ru d                5.'    8.0      2.6     92    10.0      53      6.4    3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0
homirvi cis=rt ram C                 6.5     7.0     7.0     7.0    7.0       N       N       N       N       N       NA      NA      N       NA
Q_E. ci=2jc rate M       >1.1    -0.9                    4.2   -2.6   -2.7        N       PA     NA       NA      N       N       N       NA      NA
I/ C.rrt ric ft  efUd bv wlrtd B* Xm-city p-ice irtdic.



ANNEX III
66                                              Page   5  of  5
.WTXRI T  U S - I;r ENexL  Itiom                                                                                            Pow  I of I
Tcfa( m  cizAmccrq (1=T     231    ZM67 X 25%.9  ZMi5  ZELZ  Z335  MEMO                           Z54.0  ZW.6 2151.7   MB.7  MU.5   75 1  W3J
wt sn=w=(TLs .r  W)                    646     Ms      46.5    103    e5.A    tllX5   34 2     XJ    -15.2   -51.4   -M.9   -6.7  -6&4 >?5.3
(m cizu w    Rm&n Pkipt plid
T=    Me M-a   id MS) OM c             U7 lOC.5   Y.U B  97.4   8.5   127.7   54.1  163.1  16.9  16.2 1I5.0  1,49.7   IQO tX.9
Ddz Rd De=  5- Y      W n rdsta      1/
Ta(P                                   217.4   24.2   210.2  t97B   1796  2Z2.6 - 216.9  MD.    UPt.6  t7.5    M.2   *w1.3  12L7   132.2
TM=                                   42Q9   3;7.    4493   4Q5 a5L    %7.7   Ml.2   45.3  42A               3".5   Y4X.5   311.1   NL?   25-3
T;LS=                                  27.0   20.7    31.21   t93    I&I    29.4   Y4..7    33.2   31.5    V.3    27.1    23.1   216    Z3
Camiasrvi=                            705^   71.9    72-6   7AA    X.8  7n.0    7.5   76.5    77J3   79.1    79.9    W.    9 S0. ' .
Wwd  Owt Ex=         Imfieou    (l1110ok =
%brtd lSwk WPAkic DS       1      L       3    T 7.4   12.      M3  2LE        V.5      &.5    453    4.7    4.        5.4      6.1    7.5    7.C
P  a ad CSJlarm        ic aS      7      Q4    61J6  7'46   73-5   aU          765    46 1    41J    47.1   /Z. 1 U3.9   4&D    45.J    Q.4
Uxd gWXSM                               3.6     3.3     3.8     3 S    3-       4,1    2.3      1.5    1.;   1.4        I..'   1.4    1.:1   13i
IFC tlS xiLiab)
Lm                                      (LO     0.0     0.0     34      (L o     .o    o.o     oX o     .o     o.o    a.       o.o    o.a    0.0
EqtA ty ard CLi -ity                    AO0    0.0      0.0     Q3      AOu    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       Q.o     OD0    0.0    OB0
."1Z a5Smi i
:'IG oirw7                              a          O    0.0     0 0    Q.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    (AO         0.0     0.0     0.0     QO0    O.C
I/ Inclu2s p.hic a-d  .bicLy grc4dft, p-i%q  nmsrm   bE, Un f of awfits, wd *C-m  dtC.
SO     Dli=Q=Crg 9*Um  c; SOt                 of IFI: IW=    n  *of VAJMs.



ANNEX IV
67                             page 1 of 2
XauritaniA:  Fund RelaciTons
(As of November 30 1994)
I.   Membershi  Status:  Joined  9/10/63;. Article XIV
II.  General Resources Account:                   5 (ill           % Ouota
Quoct                                         47.50           lOC.0
Fund holdings of currancy                     47.51           100.0
III. SDR De2artment:                               Sng l.llicn   S Allogation
Net cumulative allocation                      9.72           100.0
Holdings                                       0.00              0.0
IV. Outstandingt  Urcha   a and Loans:             pL.  1it
SAF arrangements                               8.81            18.6
ESAF arrangements                             50.85           107.1
V.   Financial Arranreemets:
.xpira-     Amount         Amount
Approval     tion       Approved        Dravn
ivo               D2so        SDate    (SDR millio ) (SDR Killign)
ESAF             12/09/92   12/08/94       33.90          33.90
ESAF              5/24/89   12/08/92       50.85          16.95
Stand-by          5/04/87    5/03/88       10.00          10.00
Vl.  Proiected Obligations  to Fund (SDR Million; based on existing use of
resources and present holdings of SDRs):
Ovcrdue                    Fortheominr
;1130/94      19        95     19       97      ;2
Principal                         0.9     5.9     6.8      5.4     5.1
Charges/interest        -          .1      .6       .6      .6       .5
Total                          1.0      6.5     7.4      6.0     5.6
VII. Exchanre Rate Aan mS
Since Jamzary 22, 1974, the exchange rate of the ouguiya has been
determined on the basis of a basket of currencies, comprising the U.S.
dollar, the French franc, the D-utsche m.ark, tha Spanish peseta, the Belgian
franc, and the ItaliAn lira.  Since October 1992. there has been a dual
exchange systea vhich includes a limited market, at the level of commercial
banks, for foreign currency notes and traveler's checks vhere the rate is
freely determined. On November 30, 1994, US$1 vas equivalent to UK 126.85
in the primary market.



ANNEX IV
68                             Page 2 of 2
VIII. TaSt Ar:{cle 1V Consulttion
mauritania is on the standard 12-month cycle for Ar:'cle IV
consul:ations.
Discussions for the 1993 Article IV Consultation togecher with
negocacions for the second annual ESAF arrangement were held in Nouakchott
during the period October 14-27, 1993.
The staff report (E3S/93/208) vas considered by the Executive Board on
January 26, 1994.  The decision concluding che Article IV consultation was
as follovs:
Mauritania   1993 Article TV Consultation
1.   The Fund takes this decision relating to Mauritania's exchange
Measures subject to Article VIII, Sections 2(a) and 3, in the light of the
1993 Article IV consultation with Mauritania conducted under Decision
No. 5392-(77/63) adopted on April 29, 1977, as amended (Surveillance over
Exchange Rate Policies).
2.   As described in E3S/93/208, Mauritania iLaintains exchange
restrictions evidenced by external paymonts arrears that are subject to
Article VIII, Section 2(a) and a multiple currency practice arising from the
existance of an official rate pegged to a basket of currencies and an
exchange rate in the free market. The Fund notes the intantion of
Mauritania to unify the exchange races not later than November 30, 1994, and
to eliminate the exchange restrictions evidenced by external payments
arrears by end-1994. In the meantim, the Fund grants approval for the
retention of the above exchange restrictions and multiple currency practice
that are subject to Article VIII, Sections 2(a) and 3 until December 31,
1994 or the date of completion of the 1994 Article IV consultation with
Mauritania  vhichever is earlier.
IX.   Technical Assistane  (since 1990)
1.
A.   Manor and bankin
ViAlts by panel expert on money market development in July
and September 1990.
Technical assistance mission on monetary management
techniques and banking supervision issues: December i-18,
1991.
Technical assistance mission on the reform of the banking
system:  December 14-22, 1992.



69
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF KAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPHENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Status Of Bank Group Operations
SLummary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 2/28/95 - HIS date as of 04/01/95)
Amount in USS milLion
(less cancellations)
Loan or       FiscaL                                                                            Undis-       CLosing
Credit No.       Year       Borrower                    PurDose                Bank      IDA     bursed         Date
Credits
28 Credits(s) closed                                                                  213.13
C16580-MR             1986 MAURITANIA         LIVESTOCK 11                                    7.60       5.80    06/30/95(R)
C19430-MR             1989 MAURITANIA         EDUC.SECTOR RESTRUCT                           18.20       1.64    06/30/95(R)
C20930-MR(S)          1990 MAURITANIA         AG SECAL/IRRIG IMPRO                           25.00      2.29    12/31/96(R)
C21670-MR             1990 MAURITANIA         P.E. SECTOR INST DEV                           10.00       1.74        6/30/98
C23110-MR             1992 MAURITANIA         POP HEALTH                                     15.70      12.35        8/30/98
C23890-MR             1992 MAURITANIA         WATER SUPPLY                                   10.50      10.92        6/30/97
C24550-MR             1993 MAURITANIA         CONSTRUCTION CAPACIT                           12.00      7.17        12/31/97
C25210-MR             1993 MAURITANIA         TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL                           12.50     12.23         6/30/98
C25750-MR             1994 MAURITANIA         AGRIC SERVICES                                 18.20     17.85        12/31/00
TOTAL number Credits =                      9                                               129.70     71.99
Loans
3 Loans(s) closed                                                                 146.00
ALL closed for MAURITANIA
TOTAL nuiber Loans =    0
TOTAL***                                                        146.00   342.83
of which repaid                                                 136.01    10.13
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                          9.99   332.70
Amount soLd                63.35
of which repaid            63.35
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                                      73.13
Notes:
*   Not yet effective
* Not yet signed
*   Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, aLL others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



70
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF NALUITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPiENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Status Of Bank Group Operations In KAURITANIA
List of Closed SALs and Secals
Amount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                              Undis-       Closing
Credit No.       Year        Borrower                    Purpose                 Bank      IDA     bursed         Date
CA0280-MR             1987 MAURITANIA          SAL                                             27.40       0.00  12/31/1988(R)
C18120-MR             1987 MAURITANIA          SAL                                             14.74       0.00  12/31/1988(R)
C21660-MR             1990 MAURITANIA          P.E. SECTOR ADJ                                 40.00       0.00  12/31/1994(R)
c21661-MR             1991 MAURITANIA          P.E. SECTOR ADJ                                  4.00       0.00       11/20/91
C21662-MR             1992 MAURITANIA          P.E. SECTOR ADJ                                  2.50       0.00       11/18/93
C21663-MR             1993 MAURITANIA          P.E. SECTOR ADJ                                  2.24       0.00       12/31/93
C21664-MR             1994 MAURITANIA          P.E. SECTOR ADJ                                  1.34       0.00        4/26/95
L26.430-MR            1986 MAURITANIA          SNIM REHAB                            20.00                 0.00       12/31/88
Total MAURITANIA                                                                   20.00    92.22       0.00



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Action Plan to Improve Implementation
RATINGS
FY     CREDIT NO.        NAME       DEVELOPMENT   IMPLEMENT-   DISBURSE-                      PROBLEMS AND PROPOSED ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES           ATION         MENT LAG
PROGRESS        (04/27/95)
1991   Cr. 2311-MAU   Health and            S                  S             31%      Midway through implementation, only 30% of the Credit has
Population                                                     been disbursed, due to delays in preparing bidding documents.
13% of the credit has recently been committed. An additional
25% of the Credit are scheduled to be committed in the next six
months, and be disbursed in the subsequent year. Expectations
are that, within the next twelve months, the pace of
disbursements will have returned to normal.
1986   Cr. 1658-MAU   Livestock 11          S                  S            52.8%     The Project has suffered over the years from: (i) slow
implementation due to late effectiveness (16 month after Board),
poor stafting, several changes in project management, and
disruption due to the decentralization of MDRE; (ii) poor
knowledge of Bank procedures, especially procurements by ICB,
resulting in delays in executing major project's components; (iii)
misuse of funds, resulting in the suspension of disbursements;
(iv) competition from grant funds (Norway). The Project was
restructured in 1993, focusing on strengthening pastoral
associations, and several non performing components were
canceled.
The Project Completion Date is now June 30, 1995
1992   Cr. 2389-MAU   Water                HS                  S             95%      The disbursement lag is mainly due to earlier problems in
Supply                                                         procurement. A mid-term review was carried out in March
1995. At that date, 44% of the credit was committed and related
requests for disbursements are being submitted to IDA.
Subsequent to the review, the component "supply materials" was
redefined and now amounts to 51% of the credit (originally
33%), and its implementation is to be completed before late 1995
/ early 1996.
0



72
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of I
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DErVELOPMENT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time taken to prepare the operation             Eighteen months
2.    Initial Discussion with IDA                      February 1993
3.    Pre-appraisal                                   July 1994
4.    Appraisal/Negotiations                           January 1995/April 1995
5.    Board Presentation                               May 1995
6.    Planned date of effectiveness                    June 1995
7.    Expected project completion                     June 1997



IBRD 25935
18                  16                  14                  I2-                   10                       Former                   ALGERIA
Spanish                  ALGERIA
MAURITANIA
30'           -      PRIMARY ROADS                                                                 30-            No0okchoe             M A L I
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                       Nef    ,      *Ton,boucou  j
---       TRACKS                                                                               DoSENEGAL
0 SENEGAL                 ~~~~NIGER
RAILROADS                                                                            THEa-                B o   /
0     SELECTED TOWNS                                                                          BI.1,r_L/                             N
GUGUINEA UIEA'           f Oo  *     )
@)     REGION CAPITALS                                                                       GIISAU ', 'r-
28'    AIRPORTS                                                            MO    R O  C CO   28              Conakry*j \ '    l6TE D1 i'IN  c      ) >
PORTS-------------
-    -    PREGION BOUNDARIESRTS                                                                                The bo.lad,.s, colors, n6ommntions
REGION BOUNDARIES                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Tindaul  and any othsr information show or'
INTERNATIONAL                                                                                       A,,s  p do nonply on th.e part .o
BOUNDARIES                                                                       r-               Th. World Bank Group, any oudgmnnt
BOUNDARIS         on Me iegal svtots of any I* er..ty, r
l   \         ^u~~~ny o.domaustme or ocrptpo.c. of
I   N,~~~~~. so.d, ounaies
0        100    200   300                                       __                          ,.   ALGERIA
KILOMETERS                                                                  r   n
! +=                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cheggo\-
To Lato         r Mogre,in
FORMER  !                                         IR_
SPANISH    !E' '.                                                                                         240
SAHARA   !
-- .!
Fd6ric   Zu*rat             -         -          -
'2'                                                      I    Tu6jTI,' 
( d        -                                   1                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22-
N0U6dhjoo Lo                                                       /'                                                        '                22
lo Gcu*ro               ./                                 ,,_Ouod6neI
DAKHLET       /                       Alo 
NOUADHIBOU"  ANCHI R
o'                         *   I NC HI RI:   ,-           R+   Chingoetti
/Akoi                     u>                                                                                      20,-
Nau6mgh6r0/           _--  -                               ',                                                                         2
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'7  ,-  ,,>AguiI8I fai Tamasrso'>tii,    ';ilj        ~   <Tci        
NOUAKCHOTT                                                 '  -'  -                    -  -A-R-Z--
,-Congar6fot    Moudierit
- -- -  LoIs    A           '~~~tyi6mchekket    -,palt
A ?On el ANroa
{r kT-m_ mdglh        N',
6.                                              Kain'          bon         Kokro      S  Kt  Amou                          t ---- Bossikounouo
';Kankossa  C_.,  ni .    D                                              16 
SENEGAL    Gouraye\,M L
~'  len  16'  14'  )  10'                 8'                    6'M    A     L  E
4 1j8                    16'        Ic 14'1i2                                           10'                    '6                                 411
FEBRUARY I1995









FILE COPY
DRAFT
CONFIDENTIAL
Report No: P-   6574 MAU
Type: PR



