Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2726 MAU
                         Development Credit Agreement
                      (Private Sector Development Credit)
                                   between
                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated June 22, 1995
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2726 MAU
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1995, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
        WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received two letters from
the Borrower, dated April 30, 1995 (respectively, the First
Policy Letter and the Second Policy Letter), describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
improve: (a) the Borrower's financial and private sectors; and
(b) the Borrower's fishing sector (the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
        WHEREAS: (B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
the Association has decided in support of the Program to
provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in
three tranches as hereinafter provided;
        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
        Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Page  2
Agreement:
        (a)     Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
                "Project" means the imports and other activities
                that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
                Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to
                the Development Credit Agreement.";
        (b)     the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
        (c)     The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
                "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
                otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
                on account of expenditures in the territories of any
                country which is not a member of the Association or
                for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
                such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
                payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
                goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge
                of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
                the United Nations Security Council taken under
                Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
                and
        (d)     Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
                "(c)    Not later than six months after the Closing
                Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
                purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
                the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
                Association a report, of such scope and in such
                detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
                on the execution of the Program referred to in the
                Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
                performance by the Borrower and the Association of
                their  respective obligations under the Development
                Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
                purposes of the Credit."
        Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
        (a)     "UM" means the currency of the Borrower;
        (b)     "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
        (c)     "BCM" means Banque Centrale de Mauritanie,  the
central bank of the Borrower;
        (d)     "MAUSOV" means Societe Mauritanienne-Sovietique, a
company established according to the laws of the Borrower,
pursuant to a letter of intent signed on March 1, 1980;
        (e)     "ALMAP" means Societe Algerienne-Mauritanienne de
Peche, a company established according to the laws of the
Borrower, pursuant to the bylaws signed on February 2nd, 1985;
        (f)     "ARCB" means Agence pour le Recouvrement des Creances
Bancaires, an agency established according to the Borrower's
Decret No 93-95/PM of August 21, 1993; and
        (g)     "Offer for Sale" means, with respect to an
enterprise, that the Borrower has:
Page  3
                (i)     prepared a prospectus or information memorandum
                        for the enterprise; and
               (ii)     solicited offers for the sale of such
                        enterprise either directly or through
                        advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million three hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,300,000).
        Section 2.02.  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
        Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
        (b)     The commitment charge shall accrue:
                (i)     from the date sixty days after the date of this
                        Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
                        dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
                        the Borrower from the Credit Account or
                        cancelled; and
                (ii)    at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
                        preceding the accrual date or at such other
                        rates as may be set from time to time
                        thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
                        The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall
                        be applied from the next payment date in that
                        year specified in Section 2.06 of this
                        Agreement.
        (c)     The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
        Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
        Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
        Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August
15 commencing August 15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
Page  4
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
        (b)     Whenever:
                (i)     the Borrower's gross national product per
                        capita, as determined by the Association, shall
                        have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
                        five consecutive years; and
                (ii)    the Bank shall consider the Borrower
                        creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association
                        may, subsequent to the review and approval
                        thereof by the Executive Directors of the
                        Association and after due consideration by them
                        of the development of the Borrower's economy,
                        modify the terms of repayment of installments
                        under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
                        Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
                        installment not yet due until the principal
                        amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If
                        so requested by the Borrower, the Association
                        may revise such modification to include, in
                        lieu of some or all of the increase in the
                        amounts of such installments, the payment of
                        interest at an annual rate agreed with the
                        Association on the principal amount of the
                        Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
                        time, provided that, in the judgment of the
                        Association, such revision shall not change the
                        grant element obtained under the above-
                        mentioned repayment modification.
        (c)     If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
        Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Particular Covenants
        Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
        (b)     Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
        (c)     Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange
views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program,
or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
        Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  5
        Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
        (b)     The Borrower shall:
                (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                        paragraph (a) of this Section, for each fiscal
                        year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                        auditing principles consistently applied, by
                        independent auditors acceptable to the
                        Association;
                (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as
                        available, but in any case not later than six
                        months after the end of each such year, a
                        certified copy of the report of such audit by
                        said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                        as the Association shall have reasonably
                        requested; and
                (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                        information concerning said records and
                        accounts and the audit thereof as the
                        Association shall from time to time reasonably
                        request.
        (c)     For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                        accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                        records and accounts reflecting such
                        expenditures;
                (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                        Association has received the audit report for
                        the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                        from the Credit Account was made, all records
                        (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                        and other documents, or customs certificates,
                        as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
                (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                        to examine such records; and
                (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                        included in the annual audits referred to in
                        paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                        report of such audit contains a separate
                        opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                        statements of expenditure submitted during such
                        fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                        internal controls involved in their
                        preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                        related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE IV
                    Additional Event of Suspension
        Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  6
                    Effective Date; Termination
        Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has enacted
banking legislation acceptable to the Association.
        Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
                  Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
        Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
        Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
        For the Borrower:
                Ministere du Plan
                BP 238
                Nouakchott
                Mauritania
                Cable address:                           Telex:
                        MINIPLAN                         5540 MTN
                        Nouakchott
        For the Association:
                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America
                Cable address:                           Telex:
                        INDEVAS                          248423 (RCA)
                        Washington, D.C.                  82987 (FTCC)
                                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                                         197688 (TRT)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                By /s/ Ismail Ould Iyahi
                                                 Authorized Representative
                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                                By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.      Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
        (a)     expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association
by notice to the Borrower:
Group           Subgroup                 Description of Items
112                 --                   Alcoholic beverages
121                 --                   Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                         refuse
122                 --                   Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                         not containing tobacco substitutes)
525                 --                   Radioactive and associated materials
667                 --                   Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                         stones, unworked or worked
718             718.7                    Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
                                         fuel elements (cartridges),
                                         nonirradiated for nuclear reactors
728             728.43                   Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3                    Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                         group metals (except watches and
                                         watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                         silversmiths' wares (including
                                         set gems)
971                 --                   Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold
                                         ores and concentrates)
        (b)     expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
        (c)     payments made for goods imported prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,900,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such goods imported before that
date but after February 1, 1995;
        (d)     expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $10,000 equivalent;
Page  8
        (e)     expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or
agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreed
to finance;  and
        (f)     expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.      Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $4,000,000
equivalent may be required by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify.
4.      No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to, or on the order of, the
Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 8,900,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
        (a)     with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program;
        (b)     that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement have been taken; and
        (c)     that the Borrower's macro-economic policy framework
is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.      No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to, or on the order of, the
Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 14,100,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
        (a)     with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program;
        (b)     that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement have been taken; and
        (c)     that the Borrower's macro-economic policy framework
is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
6.      If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 4
or 5 above, the Association shall have given notice to the
Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the
Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit or any part thereof.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                              Procurement
Part A:  General
1.      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
Page  9
as applicable.
2.      Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection
by a third party inspection firm.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
        Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to
the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
        Goods estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent
per contract may be procured:
1.      by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, under
contracts awarded in accordance with such procedures, provided
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the
Association; and
2.      by other purchasers:
        (a)     under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
        (b)     in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of
the Guidelines, under direct contracting procedures in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the
Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.      Prior Review
        With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than
$4,000,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.      Post Review
        With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
                             SCHEDULE 3
             Conditions for the Release of the Second and
                     Third Tranche of the Credit
Part A:  Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1
         to this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Second Tranche)
1.      The Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the
Association that, since January 1, 1995, ARCB has recovered
eight hundred million UM (UM 800,000,000), in accordance with
the implementation of its bank loan recovery program as set
forth in paragraphs 21 and 25 of the First Policy Letter.
2.      The Borrower has adopted professional standards for the
auditing and accounting profession in accordance with the
Program so as to meet the objectives set forth in paragraph 54
of the First Policy Letter.
3.      The Borrower has provided evidence, satisfactory to the
Association, that each commercial bank operating within the
territory of the Borrower has met the capital adequacy
requirements specified in the Borrower's banking legislation
referred to in Section 5.01 of the Development Credit
Page  10
Agreement.
4.      The Borrower, in accordance with the Program, has made an
Offer for Sale of MAUSOV and ALMAP.
5.      The Borrower has raised the access charges for fishing of
demersal and cephalopod to 8% of the estimated yield value so
as to meet the objectives set forth in paragraph 23 of the
Second Policy Letter.
Part B:  Actions referred to in Paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 1
         to this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Third Tranche)
1.      The Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the
Association that,  since January 1, 1995, ARCB has recovered
one billion five hundred million UM (UM 1,500,000,000) in
accordance with the implementation of its bank loan recovery
program set forth in paragraphs 21 and 25 of the First Policy
Letter.
2.      The Borrower has raised the access charges for fishing of
demersal and cephalopod to 11% of the estimated yield value so
as to meet the objectives set forth in paragraph 23 of the
Second Policy Letter.
3.      The Borrower has submitted to Parliament for approval
proposed laws, acceptable to the Association, regulating the
following subjects: (a) commercial code; (b) commercial and
civil procedure code; and (c) investment code; with a view to
meet the objectives set forth in paragraphs 53 and 54 of the
First Policy Letter.
4.      The Borrower has submitted to Parliament for approval
proposed mining legislation, acceptable to the Association, to
regulate the Borrower's mining industry, which satisfies the
objectives set forth in paragraph 57 of the First Policy
Letter.
5.      The Borrower has provided evidence, satisfactory to the
Association, that each commercial bank operating within the
territory of the Borrower has met the capital adequacy
requirements specified in the Borrower's banking legislation
referred to in Section 5.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
