CREDIT NUMBER 2726-1 MAU
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Development Credit)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated ahas    /    ,199b


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2726-1 MAU
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      ak  M   //, 1996, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
MAURITANIA (the Borrow6 and 1TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (the Association).
HIIEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector Development Credit), dated June 22, 1995,
(the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during the implementation of the Borrower's Program to
improve the Borrower's financial, private and fishing sectors referred to in Preamble (A) of
the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)    the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made available
under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 500,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by
deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (f), substituting "; and" for "." at the end of
Subsection (g) and adding a new Subsection (h) as follows:
"(h) 'Amending Agreement means the Agreement Amending the
Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector Development Credit) between the
Borrower and the Association, dated             ( 5   1996."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to
read as follows:


﻿-2-
"Stction 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement
as amended, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million eight
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,800,000) (the Credit) which
includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,300,000) (the
Initial Financing); and (b) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 500,000) (the Additional
Financing)."
Section 1.03. At the end of Subsection (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement the "and" is deleted and a proviso is added reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that commitment charges on the Additional
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending
Agreemuent.; and"
Section 1.04. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended:
(1)   in paragraphs (4) and (5), by adding after the word "commitments"
appearing in the fourth line thereof, the following: "(exclusive of the
Additional Financing)"; and
(2)    by adding a new paragraph 6 as follows:
"6. After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into
to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. At any time after such
date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the


﻿-3-
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing,
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not
been executed.


﻿-4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the date and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


