Report No. 1614a-IND
Indonesia
Appraisal of a Small Enterprise
Development Project
March 6, 1978
Rural Credit and Agro-Business Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00         =        Rp 415
Rp 1.00          =        US$ 0.0024
Rp 1 million    -         US$ 2,410
WEIGHTS AND tMEASURES
1 hectare (ha)       =         2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    =         0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)      =         2.2 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONS
ASKRINDO    Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BAPINDO     Development Bank of Indonesia
BI          Bank Indonesia
BIMAS       Mass Guidance (a farm input-credit program)
BIPIK       Guidance and Development of Small-Scale Industries
BRI         Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CPMU        Central Project Management Unit
KIB         General Investment Credit
KIK         Small Investment Credit
KMKP        Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
PPMU        Provincial Project Management Unit
PDFCI       Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PUPN        State Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims
RCP         Rural Credit Project
SEDP        Small Enterprise Development Project
SSE         Small-Scale Enterprise
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNIDO       United Nations Industrial Development Organization
LPPI        Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia
Fiscal Year
Government              April 1 to March 31
Bank Indonesia          April 1 to March 31
State Banks             January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCIUSIOU$ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             i
I.  INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
II.  THE ECONOMIY AND THE SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE SECTOR . . . . . .    2
The Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .2
Small-Scale Enterprises  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
Constraints on SSE Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Need for SSE Development .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
III.  GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR SSE DEVELOPMENT  . . . . . . . . . .    5
Agricultural Extension ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .5
Industrial Extension - The BIPIK Program .  . . . . . . . .    5
Financial Assistance ...  .        .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    6
IV.  T1  FINANCIAL SY lM    . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Overview . .  . .   . . . . . . . . . . .6
Financial Institutions            .7
Interest Rates  . . . . 0                     . .7
Government Measures for Financial Sector Development . . .    8
The KIB Program                                                       8
V. THE KIK/KMKP PROGRAM.                                                      9
Scope and Terms of the KIK/KMKP Program  . . . . . . . . .    9
Interest Rates and Margins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Organizational Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Lending Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Amount and-Distribution of Lending . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Repayment Performance   ..12
Constraints on KIK/KMKP Expansion  . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
VI.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
General Scope   ..15
Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Project Management in BI's Head Office . . . . . . . . . .   17
Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs)               . . . .   18
Implementation of Technical Assistance to BI . . . . . . .   19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
Formal Training  . . . . . . . . . .          . . .19
Credit Insurance Study .                 .   . .        .       20
Evaluation Study ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......    21
Project Cost and Financing ... .  .  .     .  .  .  .    .......  21
Subloan Terms and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Disbursement ....  ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    . ....  .  .   .    24
Procurement  ....  .  .  .    ... .....    .  .  .  .      .   .   24
Accounts and Audit ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .   25
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . . . . . .   25
Project Execution Schedule       ......                         25
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..26
Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
Risks  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..                        27
ANNEXES
1. The Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE) Sector
Table 1 - Employment and Output by Sector, 1971
Table 2 - Value Added in Manufacturing, 1968 and 1973
Table 3 - Subsectoral Structure of Manufacturing, 1973
Table 4 - Subsectoral Structure of Large- and Medium-Scale Industries, 1973
Table 5 - Subsectoral Structure of Small-Scale Industry, 1969 and 1973
Table 6 - Production and Employment in Small-Scale Industry, 1969 and 1973
Table 7 - Value Added in Transport, 1968-1973
Table 8 - Registration Data by Types of Vehicles, 1971-1976
Table 9 - Output and Employment by Sector for Project Provinces, 1971
Table 10- Number of Industrial SSEs in Project Provinces, 1974
2. Nonfinancial Programs of Assistance to Small-Scale Enterprises (SSEs)
3. The Indonesian Financial Sector
Table 1 - Bank Indonesia: Summarized Balance Sheets, 1972-1976
Table 2 - Rediscount, Lending Terms and Deposit Rates of BI and State Banks
Table 3 - Consolidated Balance Sheets of Banks, 1972-1976
Table 4 - Consolidated Balance Sheets of Foreign Exchange Banks, 1972-1976
Table 5 - Summarized Balance Sheets of State Commercial Banks as of
December 31, 1975
Table 6 - Summarized Income Statements of State Commercial Banks for 1975
Table 7 - Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summarized Balance Sheets, 1972-1975
(audited) and 1976 (unaudited)
Table 8 - Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summarized Income Statements, 1972-1975
(audited) and 1976 (unaudited)
Chart 17391 - Bank Indonesia Organization



4. The KIK/KMKP Program
Table I - Terms and Conditions of KIK/KMKP Loans
Table 2 - List of KIK/KMKP "Massal" Programs by Handling Bank
Table 3 - KIK Lending Operations by Bank, 1974-76
Table 4 - KMKP Lending Operations by Bank, 1974-76
Table 5 - KIK Loan Approvals by Bank and by Project Province, 1974-76
Table 6 - Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Economic Sector as of
June 30, 1976
Table 7 - Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Province as of
December 31, 1976
Table 8 - Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Sector and Project
Province as of March 31, 1977
Table 9 - Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Location of Projects
Financed as of March 31, 1976
Table 10- Characteristics of Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals as of
December 31, 1976
Table 11- Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Sector and by Bank as of
December 31, 1976
Appendix 1 - Analysis of the Arrears. Situation under KIK
Chart 17384 - KIK/KMKP Loan Processing Flow Chart - Case I
Chart 17383 - KIK/KMKP Loan Processing Flow Chart - Case II
Chart 17388 - BI's Credit Department Organization
Chart 17389 - BI's Credit Supervision Department Organization
Chart 17390 - Organization of a Typical BI Regional Office
Chart 17385 - Organization of a Typical State Commercial Bank Regional Office
Chart 17386 - Organization of a Typical State Commercial Bank Branch Office
5. The Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation (ASKRINDO)
Table I - Credit Insurance Approved by ASKRINDO
Table 2 - Credit Insurance Claims Paid and Amounts Recovered by ASKRINDO
Table 3 - Summarized Balance Sheets of ASKRINDO as of December 31, 1975 and
1976
Table 4 - Summarized Income Statement of ASKRINDO for Calendar Year 1976
6. Draft Terms of Reference for the Credit-Insurance Study
7. Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI)
Appendix I - List of Main Courses Conducted by LPPI
8. Draft Terms of Reference for the Small-Enterprise Credit
Training Experts
Appendix 1 - Outline of LPPI's Present Course "Credit Facilities for Small
Entrepreneurs"
9. Draft Terms of Reference for the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU)
10. Draft Terms of Reference for the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor
11. Draft Terms of Reference for the Small Business Advisor and the
Agricultural Advisor



12. Draft Terms of Reference for the Credit-Data Systems Expert
13. Draft Terms of Reference for Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMUs)
14. Draft Terms of Reference for the Evaluation Study
15. KIK/KMKP Policy and Strategy Statement
16. Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
17. Estimated Project Execution Schedule
18. Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
19. Action Program for Project Implementation
Maps
12884 Branches Lending under the Project - West Sumatra
12927 Branches Lending under the Project - Central and East Java



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Although Indonesia generally achieved the production targets of its
First Five-Year Plan, 1969-74, this has not resulted in a significant improve-
ment in the employment situation. Recognizing that many more jobs could be
created in small-scale enterprises (SSEs) per unit investment than in larger
firms (probably five to ten times as many, on average), Government in 1974
initiated two major programs for SSE development: the Small-Investment-Credit/
Small-Permanent-Working-Capital-Credit (KIK/KMKP) program of medium-term
credit and the BIPIK program of advisory services for small-scale industries.
The absence of full-time staff and the lack of adequate planning and direction
have impeded BIPIK's progress; further technical assistance is now being
sought from UNIDO/UNDP to strengthen the program.
ii.       The KIK/KMKP program is the main official channel for credit to
SSEs in Indonesia. It supports virtually all sectors: agriculture (17% of
total KIK/KMKP lending to date), manufacturing (26%), transport (15%), trade
and tourism (39%), and other services (3%). Bank Indonesia (BI), which has
been the prime mover behind KIK/KMKP, refinances 80% of KIK loans and 75% of
K4KP loans. The five state-owned commercial banks, selected private commercial
banks, plus the regional development banks under cofinancing arrangements
with the state development bank (BAPINDO), known collectively as the "handling
banks," provide the remainder of the finance and make the individual loans;
somewhat over half of the total lending is done by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI). Maximum loan maturities are five years for KIK and three years for
KMKP; the individual loan ceiling is generally Rp 5 million. With the large
branch network of the handling banks (some 600 branches in all), substantial
demand and virtually no limit on the availability of funds, the program
started immediately on a large scale.
iii.      While the KIK/KMKP program has provided large amounts of much-needed
finance to SSEs (some US$230 million, from 1974 through 1976), and both BI
and the handling banks have been cognizant of the need for adequate financial
control, some shortcomings have become apparent. These are reflected in
growing arrears, which have, in turn, caused the handling banks to become
over-cautious in the further expansion of lending. The main problems in this
regard are:
(a) the program is less attractive financially for the handling banks
than some other lending operations, despite BI's low rediscount
rates (3% p.a. for KIK, 4% p.a. for KMKP) due to low lending rates
(10.5% p.a. for KIK, 12% p.a. for KMKP), high administrative costs,
growing arrears and the risk of high default rates;
(b) handling bank staff have been given little special training for
such lending;



- ii -
(c) so far, little economic or technical analysis of KIK/KMKP lending
has been done;
(d) emphasis has been largely on making loans, and less on supervising
or collecting them;
(e) data collection has been limited, and the management information
system for KIK/KMKP does not enable BI and the handling banks to
spot problems early; and
(f) lending to SSEs is inherently risky, and problems are exacerbated
in Indonesia by the relative weakness of Government advisory and
support services and the difficulty of coordinating such services
with financial assistance, especially in nonagricultural sectors.
iv.       The primary objective of the project would be to improve incomes of
small farmers and small businessmen, and provide additional employment
opportunities, by assisting BI in strengthening the ongoing KIK/KMKP program
and laying the groundwork for a gradual improvement of Government technical
services to SSEs. The project would aim at both improving the program's
quality and expanding the quantity of lending. The project would finance KIK
lending only, for about two-and-a-half years, in the provinces of East Java,
Central Java and West Sumatra, which together account for 35% of KIK lending.
There would be approximately 10,000 subloans, with average size of about
US$6,000 (in 1978 prices). The sectoral distribution is expected to be trade
27%, industry 23%, transport 23%, agriculture 23%, and other 4%. Technical
assistance would involve the strengthening of KIK/KMKP program supervision in
BI's head office, the establishment of Provincial Project Management Units
(PPMUS) in the three BI provincial offices concerned, training of BI and
handling-bank staff, a study of the credit insurance system, and an evaluation
study of a sample of project subloans. Project emphasis would be on develop-
ment of both specific lending programs and individual case-by-case lending
under KIK/KMKP, on training the KIK/KMKP loan officers and supervisors in the
handling banks, on improving KIK/KMKP procedures and statistics, and on
seeking ways for more effective provision of advisory services to SSEs.
Project implementation would be the responsibility of a Central Project
Management Unit (CPMU), headed by a Project Manager, which has been estab-
lished as a separate unit in BI's Credit Department, under the supervision of
the Managing Directors of BI's Credit and Credit Planning and Supervision
Departments.
v.        Total project cost is estimated at US$80.0 million, of which foreign
exchange costs would be US$21.5 million, or 27% of the total. Capital assis-
tance costs on KIK loans would be US$71.0 million and technical assistance
US$9.0 million. An IDA credit of US$40.0 million equivalent on standard
terms is proposed, including about US$18.6 million of local-cost financing,
and up to US$1.2 million of retroactive financing for technical assistance
costs. The credit would be made to Government, which would onlend it at
2% p.a. to BI, the executing agency. The funds would then be passed on to



- iii -
the handling banks at 3% p.a., as part of the 80% of KIK loans rediscounted
by BI. This subsidy, which would be passed on to subborrowers through an
interest rate (10.5%) below commercial rates, is considered important by
Government because the program supports major national social and economic
objectives.
vi.       IDA would reimburse the total cost of expatriate and Indonesian
consultants, 50% of the cost of training handling bank staff, and 60% of BI's
disbursements to the handling banks for project subloans. Given the small size,
great variety and wide geographic-spread of the subloans, bulking for the
purpose of carrying out competitive bidding would not be feasible. However,
BI has tightened up the handling banks' procurement and disbursement proce-
dures, to ensure that goods and services would be procured at competitive
prices.
vii.      Project subloans would create approximately 18,000 jobs, of which
about 65% would be in small cities and rural areas, at an average cost of
US$3,300 per job (in 1978 prices). The development of sub-sectoral lending
programs would enable much more attention to be paid to economic factors, such
as the application of labor-intensive technologies where available. By streng-
thening the handling banks, the project would help reduce administrative costs
and improve collections.
viii.     Given the agreements reached with Government and Bank Indonesia
during negotiations, the project would be suitable for an IDA credit of
US$40.0 million, on standard terms.



I



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested an IDA credit of
US$40.0 million to finance a Small Enterprise Development Project (SEDP)
through Bank Indonesia (BI), the central bank. The IDA credit would meet 50%
of total project cost.
1.02      The project would provide technical and financial assistance over
about three years to strengthen BI's ongoing Small-Investment-Credit/Small-
Permanent-Working Capital-Credit (KIK/KMKP) program of small, medium-term
loans (US$240 to US$12,000; one to five years for KIK, one to three years for
KMKP). This national program represents one of Government's major efforts to
date at creating employment through investment in relatively labor-intensive
activities. KIK/ KMKP loans are made by five Government-owned commercial
banks, selected private commercial banks and the regional development banks
under the control of provincial governments (together referred to as the
"handling banks"), under the direction of BI, and go to virtually all sectors./1
The project would finance KIK lending in the provinces of East Java, Central
Java and West Sumatra, which together account for 35% of KIK/KMKP lending.
Technical assistance would involve the strengthening of KIK/KMKP program super-
vision in BI's head office, the establishment of Provincial Project Management
Units (PPMUs) in the three BI provincial offices concerned, training of BI
and handling-bank staff, a study of the credit insurance system, and an
evaluation study of a sample of project subloans. Project emphasis would be
on development of both specific lending programs and individual case-by-case
lending under KIK/KMKP, on training the KIK/KMKP loan officers and supervisors
in the handling banks in loan appraisal, supervision and collection, on
improving KIK/KMKP procedures and statistics, and on seeking ways for more
effective provision of advisory services to small-scale enterprises (SSEs).
1.03      This would be the Bank Group's first small-enterprise development
project in Indonesia. The Bank Group has, however, made five credits and
loans to development banks in Indonesia: one credit and one loan to the
Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI), and one credit and
two loans to the Development Bank of Indonesia (BAPINDO). In addition, the
Indonesia Rural Credit Project (RCP), which would provide credit and institu-
tional support for long-term agricultural lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), has been appraised and is expected to be submitted to the Executive
Directors later in FY78. In the supply of credit to the agricultural sector,
the RCP would complement the SEDP, as the former would provide credit for
subloans of longer than five years, and the latter for those of five years or
less. Furthermore, as BRI would handle almost two-thirds of SEDP lending,
the RCP's strengthening of BRI's term-lending capability would greatly assist
the implementation of the SEDP as well.
/1 The sectoral distribution to date, by value, is agriculture 17%, manufac-
turing 26%, transport 15%, trade and tourism 39%, other services 3%.



-2-
1.04      The project was prepared by an IDA mission in April/May 1975, and
appraised in May 1976 by Messrs. C. Goderez, R. David, D. Papavassiliou
(IDA) and W. Whitesell (Consultant). Follow-up discussions, leading to some
major revisions, were held in Indonesia in March 1977, by Messrs. S. Ettinger,
S. Dass, A. Gros and A. Hasan (IDA), and in November 1977, by Messrs. K.
Krishna and A. Gros (IDA).
II. THE ECONOMY AND THE SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE (SSE) SECTOR
The Economy
2.01      The Indonesian economy, while predominantly agricultural, has a
broad resource base including abundant supplies of oil, gas and a variety of
minerals. Since the late 1960s, economic progress has been rapid, with GDP
growing by an average of about 7.5% p.a. in real terms; employment growth,
however, has been much less rapid. The First Five-Year Plan, 1969-74, empha-
sized rehabilitation of neglected infrastructure and expansion of production;
most of the physical objectives were achieved. In the Second Five-Year Plan,
1974-79, greater attention is being paid to employment and income distribution.
The latest Bank Group economic report /1 analyses recent economic developments
and the major constraints to continued rapid growth.
Small-Scale Enterprises (SSEs)
2.02      SSEs in Indonesia range from some relatively modern firms in
manufacturing, construction, and transport to large numbers of smallholder
farmers, traditional artisans and small traders (Annex 1). Sectors which are
predominantly small-scale and labor-intensive account for 88% of the workers
and 53% of GDP, of which the nonagricultural SSEs provide 19% of employment
and over 16% of GDP, as shown below./2
/1   Report No. 1516-IND, of March 8, 1977.
/2 This table classifies sectors according to criteria of size and labor
intensity which conform only roughly to other definitions. These inconsis-
tencies in sectoral definitions make conclusions regarding SSEs' character-
istics tentative.



- 3 -
EMPLOYMENT AND OUTPUT BY SECTOR, 1971
Employment                Value Added
(current prices)
Million      % of           Billion       % of
workers      Total            Rp          Total
Large-Scale and Capital-
Intensive Sectors                     0.43          1.1             884          23.6
Mixed Sectors                           4.44         10.7             887          23.3
Small-Scale and Labor-
Intensive Sectors                   36.39          88.2           2,024          53.1
of which:
Small-scale industry                 (1.83)        (4.5)            (90)         (2.3)
Retail trade                         (2.62)        (6.3)           (356)         (9M4)
Services                             (3.47)        (8.3)           (181)         (4.8)
Agriculture                         (28.47)       (69.1)         (1,397)        (3606)
Total                          41.26        100.0           3,795         100.0
Source: Indonesia Basic Economic Report, 1975.
2.03      The agricultural sector, which contains the large majority of SSEs,
consists largely of smallholders (12-13 million) who cultivate about 88%
(13 million ha) of the cropped area, the remainder being primarily large
estates. Except for palm oil, smallholders dominate production of all sub-
sistence and cash crops.
2.04      Industrial SSEs /1 account for over 65% of total employment in
manufacturing but only 26% of industrial value added. Most of the SSEs (85%)
are engaged in the manufacture of edibles and non-durable light consumer goods
(chiefly of wood and textiles).  Small cities and rural areas account for 91% o
the industrial SSEs, 88% of industrial SSE employment and 62% of industrial SSE
value added.
/1  Since 1975, the Central Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Industry
have classified as SSEs enterprises with 5-19 employees, with or without
power tools (for medium-scale industry, 20-99; large-scale, 100 or more).
However, the analysis of the industrial SSE sector in this report uses the
available data, which are based on the pre-1975 definition of SSEs: estab-
lishments having 1-4 employees with power equipment, and 5-9 without.



-4
Va'I   a     odL  per employze in the industrial SSE     is onl_; aDout US$410 /1
(i .. 1978 prices), compared to about US$2,240 for mla ja       arge industries.
From 1968 to 1973, output and employment oF the 4ndustrial S3E sector increased
ty._Z acout 2,'3  p.a. and 1.7% p.a. respect-i`- _ o. ma    -o 12% p.a. and
5.6% p.a. in medium and large industries, respec-'ci-vali    In a number of indus-
t4-l=i  subsectors, SSEs have been unable to caopete successL-.ully with larger,
more moader  enterprises.
2.05      In transport, the SSEs are concentrated in road and river transport.
The road transport industry has responded dramatically to improved roads and
economic conditions; registration of commercial vehicles increased by about
13% p.a. between 1971 and 1976. The demand for services of small road
transporters, both for passengers and freight, is likely to continue to grow
rapidly as a result of increased investment in roads and agriculture.
Constraints on SSE Development
2.06      The growth and productivity of the SSE sector have been adversely
affected by several factors. The major internal constraints are poor manage-
ment and outmoded, inefficient production techniques and equipment, which
inhibit the emergence of modern SSEs with strong growth potential.  Limited
access to institutional credit is one of the most serious external constraints
to SSE growth. Banks are generally wary of lending to SSEs9 because of the
higher administrative costs and risks involved, including the difficulties in
obtaining and foreclosing on collateral. In addition, SSEs generally lack
direct access to the larger, more lucrative markets due to poor quality
control and design, limited production capacity, and lack of market informa-
tion0  Finally, Government investment incentives and technical support have
generally been geared to the needs of the larger, more capital-intensive
firms, rather than the SSEs=
Need for SSE Development
2.07      Between 1968 and 1973, output of the large-scale and capital-
irntsnsive sectors grew by about 14% p.a., the mixed sectors by 10% p.a., the
non-agricultural SSEs as a whole by about 7.5% o.a., and acfricultural SSEs by
3.1% p.a./2 Despite these generally satisfactory growth rates, which increased
the incomes of a large proportion of the population, there is little evidence
oT itcprovement in the employment situation, given the labor force growth of
approximately 2.3% p.a. and the gradually increasing capital intensity of
almost all sectors. The annual increment in Indonesia's labor force is
currently about 1 million, and is projected to reach 1.3 m_llion by 1980 and
1.8 RYaillion by the end of the century.  Given the limited labor-absorption
cap-city of Indonesian agriculture, there will be a growing dependence on the
T1 including many part-time employees.
/2  Excludes forestry and fisheries, which are included in the large and
_-ad sectors, respectively.  Total agricultural outpuL5 including forestry
and fisheries, grew by 3.5% p.a.



-5-
nonagricultural sectors for employment. Lack of comprehensive data makes it
difficult to estimate precisely the investment required to create a job in
the SSE sector; however, rough estimates, based on an analysis by BI of
sample KIK/KMKP loans, indicate an average investment cost per job created
directly of US$3,300. Although reliable comparative investment costs per job
are not available for the different sizes and types of enterprises, survey data
on the manufacturing sector show an average fixed asset/employee ratio of
US$11,000-22,000 for large- and medium-scale firms, compared to US$1,100-1,650
for industrial SSEs. The existing large base of SSEs, coupled with their low
capital/labor ratio and low skills requirements, make SSEs suitable for absorb-
ing a significant portion of the new entrants to the labor force. SSE growth
would also help nurture entrepreneurship, improve technical skills, and reduce
urban-rural income differentials and migration to the large cities.
III. GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR SSE DEVELOPMENT
Agricultural Extension
3.01      Recognizing the constraints and need for developing the SSEs, Govern-
ment has in recent years been strengthening the agricultural and industrial
extension services (Annex 2). Agricultural extension is organized by the five
Directorates General of the Ministry of Agriculture (Food Crops; Animal
Husbandry; Fisheries;. Estate Crops and Forestry). Government, with Bank Group
assistance, is implementing a number of projects for improving agricultural
extension. The Second Education Project (Credit 288) established training
centers for upgrading and expanding middle-level agricultural training. The
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179) finances research
programs for major crops, and centers for disseminating to farmers the latest
research information. And under the National Food Crops Extension Project
(Loan 1267), food crop extension services are being expanded and strengthened
in nine provinces; the experience gained in that project may lead to an
integrated national extension project covering all the agricultural subsectors.
Industrial Extension - The BIPIK Program
3.02      The major program directed towards industrial SSEs, Guidance and
Development of Small-Scale Industries (BIPIK), was introduced in 1974 by the
Department of Industry, with UNDP/UNIDO assistance. The objective of BIPIK is
to assist industrial SSEs in management, marketing, and technology by streng-
thening and expanding the industrial extension service, establishing special-
ized training centers for entrepreneurs, and developing integrated programs
for specific subsectors.
3.03      Although BIPIK got off to a promising start in 1974/75, including,
for example, seminars for 15,000 entrepreneurs and workers, its further imple-
mentation has been slow. Its main weaknesses are (a) the need to rely on the
regular Department of Industry field staff, most of whom are involved primarily
in regulatory and other administrative work, as BIPIK has no full-time field
staff of its own, and (b) the lack of a central management unit with effective
responsiblility for overall planning, coordination, and implementation. In



- 6 -
addition, coordination with the banks and other agencies has been limited; to
rectify this situation, Government recently formed a coordinating committee
comprising, among others, representatives from Bankf Indonesia and the Depart-
ments of Industry, Manpower, Trade, and Finance. Furthermore, BIPIK's
effectiveness in Central and East Java is expected to improve following the
establishment of extension service centers in Yogyakarta and Surabaya in
1977/78. These pilot centers, for which UNIDO advisors have been requested,
will focus on training the first full-time BIPIK extension staff, and on
identifying and developing subsectoral programs. Based on the experience of
these centers, Government intends to establish a nationwide network of such
centers; with adequate Government support these could form the nucleus of an
effective industrial extension service for SSEs. At Government's request,
the project would not include any direct measures to strengthen the BIPIK
program, as UNIDO assistance is being sought for this purpose; however, the
project would aim to better identify the needs of KIK/KMKP borrowers for
assistance from BIPIK and other technical agencies. In the preparation of
SSE subsectoral development programs under the project, Bank Indonesia
intends to seek functional cooperation with other government agencies such as
BIPIK, the agricultural extension services, provincial planning agencies
(BAPPEDAs), universities and technical and vocational training institutes.
3.04       Additional efforts to provide nonfinancial support to nonagricultural
SSEs are being developed in the context of location-specific projects, such as
the proposed Yogyakarta Rural Development Project and Surabaya Urban Project,
which are being prepared for possible Bank Group financing.
Financial Assistance
3.05       Until 1974, the only important credit programs for SSEs were short-
term agricultural production schemes, especially BIMAS (Mass Guidance). Under
BIMAS, farmers get extension advice, and obtain loans from BRI for inputs
(fertilizers, seed and agrochemicals) and subsistence expenses. The BIMAS
program, which concentrates on rice and some secondary crops, commenced in
1965, and by 1975 covered almost 25% (2.2 million ha) of the wet season paddy
area and about 5% (0.3 million ha) of the area under dry season secondary crops.
3.06       In 1974, the KIK/KMKP program (see Chapter V) was instituted.  In
the same year, BRI began its mini-credit scheme for smaller loans (Rp 10,000-
100,000) than those usually made under KIK/KMKP. The SEDP and the proposed
Rural Credit Project would support or complement the above programs, and hence
form an important part of Government's efforts to strengthen the financial
institutions assisting SSEs, and to foster cooperation between those institu-
tions and the technical agencies concerned.
IV. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Overview
4.01       The core of the Indonesian financial system (Annex 3) is a large
commercial banking sector dominated by five state banks and regulated by the
central bank, Bank Indonesia (BI). The financial system's total assets have



- 7 -
increased sharply in recent years, from Rp 983 billion (US$2.4 billion) at
the end of 1972 to Rp 3,515 billion (US$8.6 billion) at year-end 1976, due
largely to the expansion of the commercial banking sector. Most lending is
short-term; the interest rate structure and credit regulations do not
encourage mobilization of long-term funds to finance long-term investments.
Financial Institutions
4.02      State Commercial Banks.  The five state commercial banks accounted
for nearly 80% of all bank credits outstanding, as of December 31, 1976./l
Each of these banks emphasizes lending to specific sectors of the economy:
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) to smallholder agriculture and rural development;
Bank Bumi Daya to estate agriculture and forestry; Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
to industry; Bank Dagang Negara to commerce and mining; and Bank Ekspor-Impor
Indonesia to export-related activities. This sectoral allocation, however,
is not binding, and much overlap, if not competition, takes place among the
state commercial banks. These banks' main sources of funds are credits from
BI under refinancing facilities, and deposits.
4.03      From 1972 through 1976, total assets, deposits, and outstanding
credits of state commercial banks all increased at average rates of 40-50%
p.a. This period of rapid growth has accentuated the state banks' reliance
on BI credits. It has also left them with a legacy of bad debts. Partly
because of continued low profitability from 1972 through 1976, the state
commercial banks have not been building up suitable provisions for doubtful
loans. To remedy this situation, Government and BI have, inter alia, asked
the state banks to exercise tighter control over their operations and improve
their loan collection performance. In general, Government has made it clear
that it is committed to improving the performance of the state banks; slow,
steady progress is now expected.
4.04      Development Banks.  There are 29 development banks in Indonesia,
consisting of the state-owned BAPINDO, which is by far the largest, 26
regional development banks wholly or partially owned by provincial governments,
and 2 joint-venture banks, the Indonesian Development Finance Corporation and
PDFCI. BAPINDO finances primarily large- and medium-scale projects in both
the public and private sectors; the other development banks cater to somewhat
smaller enterprises. The regional development banks, because of both a lack
of term funds and a shortage of staff with necessary skills, have done only
short-term lending until recently. Under co-financing arrangements with
BAPINDO, some of these banks have now begun to venture into term lending,
under the KIK/KMKP program.
Interest Rates.
4.05      BI sets the interest rates applied by the state banks, and these,
in turn, largely determine the general interest rate level in the economy. At
present, deposit rates range from 6% p.a. for six-month time deposits with
/1 Excluding BI credits to Pertamina and P.T. Krakatau Steel.



state banks, to 12-15% p.a. for 24-month time deposits. Short-term lending
rates of state banks range from 12% p.a. for many Government-sponsored
programs (such as BIMAS), to 21% p.a. for general loans. Lending rates for
investment loans are 10.5% p.a. up to Rp 75 million, 12% p.a. for Rp 75 -
Rp 200 million, and 13.5% p.a. above Rp 200 million. State-owned financial
institutions can afford to engage in term-financing operations, as they
receive direct interest rate subsidies from Government for time deposits, and
a substantial portion of their lending is refinanced by BI at low rates (3%
p.a. to 8% p.a.). The interest rate structure prevents, however, the private
domestic banks from engaging in term-financing as they cannot compete with
state banks for long-term deposits, not being eligible for interest rate
subsidies or low-rate refinancing from BI. The Government continues to keep
the interest rate structure under review, as indicated by its recent decision
in January 1978 to reduce both lending and deposit rates.
Government Measures for Financial Sector Development
4.06      Over the last few years, Government has attempted to remedy some of
the shortcomings of the financial sector, particularly its short-term orienta-
tion. With Bank Group assistance, BAPINDO was reorganized with a view to
making it the predominant source of medium- and long-term finance for the
larger Indonesian industrial enterprises. With IFC and Canadian International
Development Agency assistance, BI initiated a program to upgrade the operating
procedures of the five state commercial banks. Under this program, a team of
Canadian experts carried out in-depth evaluations of the accounting and credit
procedures used by each bank; this has led to detailed programs for reform,
which are now being implemented. In 1972, the Indonesian Development Finance
Corporation was reorganized as a joint venture between Government (through BI)
and the Netherlands Overseas Finance Corporation, specializing in small- to
medium-scale industries. In 1973, with Bank Group assistance, Government was
instrumental in establishing PDFCI. The same year, a venture-capital finance
company, P.T. Bahana, was set up to provide seed capital and managerial
assistance to financially weak enterprises. Finally, to help address the
need for medium-term funds, Government instituted in 1969 the General Invest-
ment Credit (Kredit Investasi Besar - KIB) program, supplemented at the end
of 1973 by KIK/KMtKP.
The KIB Program
4.07      Under the KIB program the state banks extend loans of up to five
years' maturity/l to finance fixed assets and working capital, in virtually
all economic sectors, at varying rates of 10.5-13.5% p.a. and 12-18% p.a.,
respectively. There is no floor or ceiling on the size of individual loans,
but the percentage rediscounted by BI decreases as the loan size increases.
Funding came initially from BI, the state banks and the Government budget.
Since 1971, no new budget appropriations have been made for this program.
This, plus an apparently high level of arrears due largely to inadequate
procedures (including too short maturity periods), staff training and
appraisal, are among the factors which have caused lending activity to taper
off: new loan approvals have averaged around Rp 40 billion (US$96 million)
per year during 1972-76.
/1 In January 1978, this was extended to 10 years.



-9-
4.08      With an average size of around Rp 300 million (US$723,000), most
loans were for medium- and large-scale manufacturing and hotel projects. To
encourage the state banks to finance smaller businesses, Government announced
ina April 1973 that 65% of future KIB lending would be reserved for loans
below Rp 5 million. However, SSE participation remained low, largely because
most could not meet the 25% equity-contribution requirement; hence, in December
1973, two programs of financial assistance specifically directed to SSEs were
instituted: Kredit Investasi Kecil (KIK) for fixed asset financing, and
Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (KMKP) for permanent working capital (Annex 4).
V. THE KIK/KMKP PROGRAM
Scope and Terms of the KIK/KMKP Program
5.01      The primary objective of the KIK/KMKP program is to facilitate
access of Indonesian (indigenous) SSEs to institutional term-finance. To this
end, fairly lenient qualifying conditions have been prescribed and simple
credit procedures devised. Policy, program formulation and central adminis-
tration of KIK/KMKP are BI's responsibility; implementation of the program
has been assigned to the five state commercial banks, certain private commercial
banks, and to BAPINDO. Selected regional development banks also participate
under co-financing arrangements with BAPINDO. Nationwide, some 600 bank
branches are presently lending under KIK/KMKP; BRI accounts for over 40% of
these branches and 50% of the lending.
5.02      All productive activities in industry, agriculture, trade and ser-
vices are eligible for KIK/KMKP financing, except certain professional
services, the entertainment business and industries that may from time to
time be declared "saturated." No equity contribution is required of borrowers.
In theory, borrowers' net worth must not exceed Rp 20 million (US$48,000),
and their current assets Rp 10 million (US$24,000). In practice, it is, of
course, difficult to ensure that these criteria are adhered to. Rp 5 million
(US$12,000) is in general the maximum loan amount which may be approved for
any single borrower, although he can obtain Rp 5 million each under both KIK
and KMKP. Maturities range from one to five years for KIK, including a grace
period of up to two years. KMKP loans are given on an overdraft basis,/1 for
up to three years. BI requires that collateral equal "not less than 100% of
the credit," but its guidelines specify that "the main collateral is the
project financed."
5.03      The Rp 5 million ceiling on KIK/KMKP loans was probably an appro-
priate level when the program began at the end of 1973, to ensure that funds
went to SSEs. Since then, however, prices in Indonesia have almost doubled.
As a result, the larger SSEs are being progressively excluded from KIK/KMKP.
In February 1977, BI raised the KIK/KMKP ceilings to Rp 10 million (US$24,000),
but only for expansions of projects previously financed under KIK/KMKP, for
/1 Standby credit lines which may be drawn down at any time.



- 10 -
which repayments have been on schedule. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that BI would increase the general ceiling from time to time, to take
into account increases in price levels, and, in addition, would make excep-
tions, on a category-by-category basis, to both the loan ceiling and the
five-year maturity limit, as justified by appraisal reports on specific
lending programs (para. 6.14).
Interest Rates and Margins
5.04      Interest rates for borrowers are 10.5% p.a. for KIK and 12% p.a.
for KMKP. BI rediscounts 80% of all KIK lending at 3% p.a., and 75% of KMKP
lending at 4% p.a., repayable according to the same amortization schedules as
the subborrowers'. In addition, the Indonesian Credit Insurance Agency
(ASKRINDO) insures these banks against 75% of the credit risk, for a one-time
premium of 3%, payable half by the handling banks and half by BI. (This pre-
mium is probably too low to cover ASKRINDO's risks, and thus includes a hidden
subsidy to the handling banks - see para. 6.20). With the average cost of their
own loanable funds (chiefly from deposits) at around 6.4% p.a., handling banks
are given gross spreads of about 5.8% p.a. on KIK and 6.7% p.a. on KMKP,/1
for amounts not in arrears. Such margins would normally be considered
generous, but- in the present case appear barely adequate to cover adminis-
trative costs, estimated at 4.5-5% p.a. of the outstanding portfolio,/2
and the residual 25% risk (which equals a cost of about 1.3% p.a. of the
outstanding portfolio, on the assumption that all interest is paid but 10% of
principal must be written off). On KIK amounts in arrears and in the absence
of rescheduling, the handling banks' position is worse, since BI withdraws
its liquidity, leaving the banks to finance this entirely with their own
funds. The resultant 2.7% p.a. increase in the banks' average cost of funds
(from 3.7% p.a. to 6.4% p.a.) would normally be offset by the additional 3%
p.a. penalty interest on arrears; so far however, this penalty has seldom
been charged or collected.
5.05      Although sufficient data have not yet been collected on the handl-
ing banks' total KIK/KMKP administrative and financial costs to determine
whether the present spread is adequate, the above analysis tends to support
the handling banks' perception that the KIK/KMKP program is not very attractive
financially. At negotiations, BI agreed to carry out a study of these adminis-
trative and financial costs, utilizing the services of project consultants as
appropriate. By June 30, 1978, BI would exchange views with the Association
/1  For KIK, the average cost of funds is 80% x 3% plus 20% x 6.4% = 3.7%;
for KMKP 75% x 4% plus 25% x 6.4% = 4.6%. The 1.5% flat flee to ASKRINDO
is equivalent to almost a 1% annual charge for 3-year KIK loans repaid in
equal semi-annual installments, and a 0.7% annual charge for 2-1/2 year
KMKP loans repayable in full at maturity.
/2  Based on the ratio of BRI's total administrative costs to its total
portfolio.



- 11 -
on the study's proposed terms of reference. The study report
would be submitted to the Association for comment by March 31, 1979. Results
of the study would assist BI in carrying out its policy of setting KIK/KMKP
terms and conditions to provide handling banks with an adequate financial
return on their KIK/KMKP lending. In addition, to keep the handling banks
from losing money on amounts in arrears, and to ensure that borrowers have
incentives to repay on schedule, BI agreed to cause all banks lending under
the program to actually charge and collect, not later than March 31, 1978,
the existing 3% p.a. penalty interest (in addition to the regular interest)
on KIK/KMKP loans not eligible for rescheduling and more than 90 days in
arrears, so that borrowers in arrears would have to pay an interest rate
(13.5% on KIK, 15% on KMKP) higher than the maximum rate they would earn
(12% p.a. on balances exceeding Rp 2.5 million) by putting their funds into
time deposits.
Organizational Arrangements
5.06      Responsibility for the KIK/KMKP program is presently divided
between the Credit Department and the Credit Planning and Supervision Depart-
ment of BI's head office, with the Managing Director of the latter providing
overall policy direction. This arrangement appears to be working satisfac-
torily. Central administration of KIK/KMKP is carried out in BI's Credit
Department by the Production Loan Division, which monitors KIK/KMKP credit
ceilings ("plafonds"), issues directives to the handling banks, and supervises
the units in BI's branches which examine the handling banks' KIK/KMKP redis-
count applications, primarily to verify borrower eligibility. Program
planning and evaluation are the responsibility of BI's Credit Planning and
Supervision Department, whose Credit Planning Division allocates the annual
KIK/KMKP lending ceilings to the handling banks. Because KIK/KMKP is a
priority program, BI has always set the ceilings high enough so as not to
constrain KIK/KMKP lending, and, in fact, views the "plafond" more as a
target. The handling banks, for their part, have sometimes felt that these
ceilings were being set too high by BI, to induce them to increase KIK/KMKP
lending. It is expected that measures taken under the project, including
adjusting the spread to the handling banks, if necessary, would make it more
attractive for handling banks to increase lending. If a bank does not utilize
its full KIK/KMKP "plafond," the remainder is not transferable to other
lending programs; however, if a bank were in a position to exceed its KIK/KMKP
"plafond," BI would readily increase that ceiling.
Lending Procedures
5.07      The mechanics of KIK/KMKP lending are detailed in Annex 4.  The
small size of KIK/KMKP loans, the limited education and training of the loan
officers, the absence of subsectoral analysis upon which estimates of project
viability could depend and the difficulties in obtaining information on
clients' operations, compel the handling banks to use simplified credit-
investigation procedures that rely as much on the borrowers' character and
collateral as on project viability. The standard application form is supple-
mented by a field check by the loan officer. The evaluation procedures and
reports, disbursement control (see para. 6.28) and loan supervision vary
widely among handling bank branches.



- 12 -
Amount and Distribution of Lending
5.08      During calendar 1974-1976, some 58,000 loans totalling Rp 96 bil-
lion (US$230 million) were granted. Of this total, Rp 45.8 billion (48%)
was for 23,800 KIK loans and Rp 49.7 billion (52%) for 34,000 KMKP loans.
Average loan size was Rp 1.9 million (US$4,650) for KIK, and Rp 1.4 million
(US$3,500) for KMKP. The trade sectors (wholesale, retail and hotels)
accounted for 25% of KIK lending and 52% of KMKP; industry for 21% and 31%,
respectively; agriculture (farming, livestock and fisheries) for 22% and 12%;
transport for 28% and 2%; and other services, for 3% and 2%, respectively.
About 65% of the lending has gone to small cities and rural areas. The
average loan maturity has been about 2-1/2 years for KMKP, which is close to
the 3-year limit. However, due largely to the over-cautious policies of
the handling banks, the average maturity for KIK loans has been only 3 years
(compared to the 5-year maximum); this may not always be sufficient to permit
repayment without difficulty.
5.09      Most KIK/KMKP lending has gone to established entrepreneurs seeking
to rehabilitate or expand their operations; only 12% of KIK and 3% of KMKP
financing was directed to new projects. This may be explained by (a) the
5-year maximum (and 3-year average) maturity of KIK loans, which may be too
short to permit the establishment of certain types of new businesses, (b) the
fact that handling banks prefer the lower risk of established clients and
enterprises, and have been able to meet their lending targets without financ-
ing new ventures, and (c) an early directive from BI, which has since been
relaxed, limiting KIK/KMKP loans for new enterprises.
5.10      BRI, which has over 40% of all the state bank branches, accounts
for 55% of total KIK loan approvals, followed by Bank Bumi Daya with 15%, Bank
Negara Indonesia 1946 with 10%, Bank Dagang Negara with 8% and Bank
Ekspor-Impor Indonesia with 5%. BAPINDO and the regional development banks
account for 7% of KIK loan approvals, while the private banks' share has been
negligible to date. Specialization by sector has not been a constraint on
KIK lending. BRI accounts for the great majority (86%) of lending to agricul-
ture, but also handles 45-50% of KIK lending to industry, trade and transport.
Repayment Performance
5.11      Because of the newness of both the KIK/KMKP program and its monitor-
ing system, there is little information readily available on the default
rates of KIK/KMKP loans, and what data are available are not fully consistent.
However, based on the best evidence available, /1 for KIK /2
/1 This evidence is derived from information provided by handling banks and
BI on KIK loan and rediscount amounts outstanding at the end of each
year, for the period 1974-76 (Annex 4, Attachment 1). It covers both
general and program-lending.
/2 As KMKP loans are now handled on an overdraft basis, normally without
repayments required until final maturity, and even then subject to roll-over,
there are no meaningful data available on KMKP arrears.



- 13 -
loans, the collections rate /1 on principal for the five state commer-
cial banks declined from 74% in 1974, to 66% in 1975, and 52% in 1976, as
follows:
COLLECTIONS PERFORMANCE UNDER KIK, 1974-1976/a
(in Rp million and percent)
1974      1975       1976
Portfolio as of January 1            (1)                  -       12,817    20,235
Disbursements during year            (2)               14,918    11,377    19,231
Repayments due during year:
Arrears as of January 1            (3)                  -          742      2,045
New repayments due                 (4)                2,843      5,262      9,657
Total repayments due              (5) = (3)+(4)       2,843      6,004    11,702
Collections during year              (6)                2,101      3,959      6,125
Collections rate                    (7) = (6) + (5)   73.9%        65.9%      52.3%
Arrears as of December 31            (8) = (5) - (6)      742      2,045      5,577
Portfolio as of December 31          (9)=(l)+(2)-(6)  12,817    20,235    33,331
Arrears as % of portfolio           (l0)=(8)+(9)
as of December 31                                      5.8%      10.1%      16.7%
/a For the five state commercial banks (excluding BAPINDO); principal only
(excluding interest).
On the other hand, a recent BI questionnaire filled in by handling bank
branches, showed 1976 collections rates of 62% in East Java and 72% in Central
Java for general (i.e. non-program) KIK lending.
5.12      The unreliability of the data notwithstanding, all parties agree
that efforts must be made to improve collections. These figures reflect (a)
the high risk and low profitability of many SSEs, which result, in part, from
their limited use of nonfinancial support services, (b) the uneven quality of
project appraisal, supervision and collection efforts by the handling banks,
and (c) the difficulty in foreclosing on loans. The last results from
legislation which generally favors the borrowers rather than the banks, and
from the obligatory use of the Government's quasi-judicial collection agency,
the State Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims (PUPN), for the collection
of delinquent accounts. Under the terms of the most recent Bank loan to
BAPINDO, PUPN's operations would be reviewed and a specific reform plan
agreed with the Bank.
/1  Defined as amount collected divided by amount that should have been collec-
ted, which consists of outstanding arrears at the beginning of the year
plus amounts newly falling due.



- 14 -
5.13      Many of the institution-building elements of the project should
tend to improve the handling banks' collections performance. In addition,
during negotiations, agreement was reached that BI would instruct the handling
banks to effectively charge and collect the 3% penalty interest on KIK loans
willfully in default for more than 90 days (para. 5.05), and, more generally,
would cause each handling bank to take such measures as necessary to ensure
that handling bank branches participating in the project achieve and maintain
a satisfactory level of KIK loan collection performance, with special atten-
tion to handling bank branches which have not yet achieved annual collection
rates of 70%. These measures and their actual impact would be reviewed
jointly by BI and IDA, not later than March 31 of each year (June 30, for
1978); such reviews, from 1980 onwards, would include, inter alia, the setting
of collection targets for the current calendar year for each handling bank in
each province of the project area.
Constraints on KIK/KMKP Expansion
5.14      The main constraint on the expansion of the KIK/KMKP program is
the handling banks' cautious attitude toward term-lending for SSEs. This
attitude reflects the riskiness of the SSE sector and the banks  limited and
not fully satisfactory experience with both KIB and KIK/KMKP. However,
the handling banks could do much to improve the situation through better
staff training, disbursement control, loan supervision, information systems,
and program development. The project would address these issues, and should
thereby help make the handling banks more willing to expand their KIK/KMKP
lending. This in turn will permit the rate of expansion of KIK to increase,
since adequate finance is expected to continue to be available, given Govern-
ment priority for the program and support for the proposed project, and the
continued high demand for loans.
VI. THE PROJECT
Objectives
6.01      The primary objective of the project would be to improve incomes of
small farmers and small businessmen, and provide additional employment
opportunities, by assisting BI in strengthening the ongoing KIK/KMKP program
and laying the groundwork for a gradual improvement of Government technical
services to SSEs. Project emphasis would be placed on both improving
the program's quality and expanding the quantity of lending. Specifically
the project would:
(a)  attempt gradually to channel more of the KIK/KMKP lending into
well-defined programs, usually on a subsectoral basis within a given
region or regions, so as to provide more effective and efficient
delivery both of finance and advisory services to SSEs;
(b)  develop program-planning expertise in BI and the handling banks;
(c)  provide both on-the-job and classroom training for the KIK/KMKP
loan officers and their supervisors;



- 15 -
(d) improve KIK/KMKP procedures of loan identification, appraisal,
disbursement, monitoring, supervision and collection;
(e)  improve the KIK/KMKP data collection and analysis system;
(f)  review the credit-insurance system; and
(g)  begin the process of evaluating the impact of the KIK/KMKP program.
General Scope
6.02      Project Area. The project would be implemented in the provinces of
Central Java, East Java and West Sumatra. The three provinces have been
selected because they have good potential as well as much need for small
enterprise development. Central and East Java have lagged behind West Java in
modern industrial development, largely because of the latter's proximity to
Jakarta, but have larger small-scale industrial bases. West Sumatra is one of
the main growth centers in Sumatra, and has the entrepreneurial experience and
the locational advantages to move increasingly beyond trade and primary
production into agricultural processing and other small-scale industries. All
three provinces have substantial underemployment and are net exporters of
labor, and therefore have great need for further job creation.
6.03      Components.  The project would comprise:
(a)  finance for the KIK program in the three project provinces
(US$60.5 million);
(b)  strengthening of KIK/KMKP program management and supervision in
BI's head office (US$0.95 million) with (i) a Central Project
Management Unit (CPMU) assisted by a Project Advisor, a Small-
Business Advisor and an Agricultural Advisor; (ii) a KIK/KMKP
Procedures Advisor; and (iii) a Credit-Data Systems Expert;
(c)  establishment of Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs)
assisted by teams of consultants, plus short-term consultancy,
as required, in BI's coordinating branches in each of the three
project provinces (US$3.73 million);
(d)  development and implementation of a training program for KIK/KMKP
loan officers and supervisors (US$2.32 million);
(e)  a study of existing and potential credit insurance arrangements for
KIK/KMKP (US$0.20 million);
(f)  an evaluation study of the project's impact (US$0.40 million); and
(g)  a study of handling bank's total administrative and financial costs
under KIK/KMKP (US$0.20 million).



6.04      Technical Assistance.  The consultants  -o D providcd under the
project would be located mainly in BI, but wjould in substantial part work
with the handling banks.  Placina the advisors in  .    the mcst effective
means of providing technical assistance to the entire Drogra-,2 since BI has
responsibility for developing the main policies of KKIK/RlKF, aYad supervising
their implementation by the handling barks.  The. -echnical ass-stance component
of the project is substantial, due to the sizes importance          needs of the
KIK/KMKXP program; however, BI's need for advisors cn the KY jL<iKP program is
expected to be reduced significantly over the proiect periodc
6.05      Duration.  The commitment period for the credit component would be
two-and-a-half years, and for most of the technical assistance, three years./l
This is considered long enough for the project to have signi-ficant, measurable
inpact. Longer-term assistance would have to be reassessed as the institution-
building and program-development efforts of the project take effect.
Credit
6.06      The project would finance all KIK lending by the five state-owned
commercial banks, selected private commercial banks /2, and t-e regional
development banks in the three project provinces for about :-m;7-and-a-half years.
It is estimated that about 10,000 loans with average size of about $6,000 (in
1978 prices) would be made by the approximately 200 branches involved. The
appraisal procedures laid down by the handling banks are generally satisfactory,
and with additional training, the application of these procedures by the loan
officers should continue to improve, ensuring that most subprcjects are
fina-cially viable.  Models have not been developed to assess the economic
and financial viability of the wide range of activities financed by KIK in
the project provinces. Under the project, however, PPMUs woul-d be developing
suosectoral lending programs whose economic and financial ret-urns would be
calculated on the basis of such models.
60n 7    'T-hQe credit component of the project would be limited to KIK lending,
as  t i F ds 6.fficult administratively to limit KMKP lending to only incremental
~->rjin ^ apiota1 0 However, the institutional development ccm=onents of the
proac- 7would cover KMKP as well as KIK, and BI has agreed -rhat IMKP loans
would be made, as needed, to project subborrowers.
T -ncuding the period October 1977-March 1978, for which retroactive
--nancing for the PPMJ teams is proposed.
"-1 would select the private commercial banks allowed to participate in
~--dng under the project, on the basis of eligibility criteria agreed
w^h the Association.



- 17 -
Project Management in BI's Head Office
6.08      A Central Project Management Unit (CPMU), to be established as a
separate unit in BI's Credit Department and supervised jointly by the Managing
Directors of the Credit and Credit Planning and Supervision Departments,
would be given overall responsibility for project implementation (Annex 9).
The CPMU would be headed by a full-time Project Manager, assisted by one or
more Assistant Project Managers, a Project Advisor, a Small Business Advisor,
an Agricultural Advisor and two or three professional staff. It would manage
the KIK/KMKP program in the three project provinces and coordinate the work
on the KIK/KMKP program being done by other units in BI's head office, the
PPMUs, the Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI),
ASKRINDO, and the handling banks. It would also advise the Managing Directors
on policy issues related to KIK/KMKP, and would be responsible for recruitment
and supervision of the remaining project consultants. In addition, the CPMU
would coordinate credit policies under KIK/KMKP with those of other term-
lending programs, such as the proposed Rural Credit Project.
6.09      A KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor (Annex 10), to be located in BI's Bank
Supervision Department and under direct supervision of the CPMU's Managing
Directors, together with counterpart BI staff, would study existing procedures
and recommend changes to the Managing Directors of the CPMU as required.
Areas to be examined include disbursement, supervision and collection proce-
dures, collateral requirements, paperwork simplification, appraisal standards,
and division of responsibility among branch staff, including the scope for
sectoral specialization among loan officers.
6.10      A Planning and Program Development Section (Annex 11) in the
Production Loan Division of the Credit Department, would be set up to coord-
inate and assist in planning and developing both the agricultural and non-
agricultural program lending and other KIK/KMKP development activities of the
PPMUs and planning units of the handling banks concerned. This section would
be assisted by two CPMU consultants - the Small Business Advisor and the
Agricultural Advisor - who would review nonagricultural and agricultural
programs, respectively. The Agricultural Advisor would work in close cooper-
ation with BRI's Planning Bureau, and would review agricultural programs put
forward by BRI for lending under the proposed RCP, as well as under the SEDP.
Staff of this section would be seconded to the PPMIUs to gain program planning
and development experience.
6.11      A Credit Data Systems Expert (Annex 12) and his counterpart would
work in the Production Loan Division of the Credit Department to improve and
expand BI's system for the collection and computer analysis of KIK/KMKP data,
especially to cover loan repayment statistics. They would also assist the
handling banks to obtain the management information they need on KIK/KMKP, to
implement the monitoring and reporting system of the project, and to estimate
KIK/KMKP operating costs.



- 18 -
6.12      Other Units.  Three other existing units would be involved in
project implementation. The Credit Planning and Investigaton Divisions of
the Credit Planning and Supervision Department would allocate and monitor
handling banks' KIK/KMKP lending ceilings, and supervise the operations of
P.T. ASKRINDO; the Mechanization Desk of the Administration and Organization
Department would be responsible for programming and processing credit data on
KIK/KMKP; and the Monetary and General Economic Affairs Divisions of the
Economics and Statistics Department would contract out and supervise the
evaluation study.
Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs)
6.13      PPMUs (Annex 13) would be established in three BI branches:
Surabaya (East Java), Semarang (Central Java) and Padang (West Sumatra)./l A
senior official of the BI branch would be the head of each unit and would
report to the Project Manager. Staff would consist of a five-man (four-man
in West Sumatra) team of consultants, satisfactory to the Association, who
are experts in development banking, economics and SSE development, and
Indonesian counterparts drawn from supervisory and credit-planning units of
BI and the handling banks. The counterparts would be seconded to the PPMUs
for periods of about one year each.
6.14      The first major functions of the PPMUs would be KIK/KMKP program
development for individual projects and subsectoral categories (e.g. shoemaking,
mini-bus transport, fishing boats), area development, and pilot schemes for
new approaches to SSE development (e.g. subcontracting, hire purchase, market-
ing cooperatives). The PPMUs would cooperate on a selective basis with
other Government agencies (BIPIK, agricultural extension services, provincial
planning agencies, universities), and would bring in short-term consultants,
as needed, on specialized technical issues. Through such approaches, it
would become possible to (a) conduct better analysis of the financial,
economic, marketing and technical aspects of the loans, (b) reduce the unit
administrative costs of the handling banks, (c) find efficient ways of
providing advisory services to groups of entrepreneurs, and (d) set more
appropriate subloan size and maturity limits, which might be higher or lower
than the general KIK/KMKP limits. Program development reports prepared
by the PPMUs would be submitted to the Planning and Program Development
Section of BI's Production Loan Division, for review. Following their
approval by BI's Board, these reports would be made available to the relevant
handling banks, for implementation.
6.15      The second major task of the PPMUs, especially for their development
bankers, would be to give on-the-job training to the loan officers and their
supervisors in promotion, identification, investigation, evaluation, establish-
ment of terms and conditions, supervision and collection of loans, including
/1 The Surabaya and Semarang branches are "coordinating branches" for the
BI branches in East and Central Java, respectively.



- 19 -
coordination between the investment (KIK) and working-capital (KMKP) com-
ponents of the loan packages. Based on their experience, the PPMUs would
also make recommendations for improvement in overall KIK/KMKP procedures,
channelling these through BI's KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor. In addition, the
PPMUs would evaluate the service capabilities of the various technical agencies
in the three provinces, and advise the loan officers where to refer prospective
borrowers for the technical assistance which the banks themselves were not in
a position to give. Within three months of starting work in the field, each
PPMU would prepare, in agreement with the CPMU and the handling banks, its
first annual work program.
Implementation of Project Management and Technical Assistance to BI
6.16      BI Head Office.  The Project Advisor was appointed in June 1976,
the Small-Business Advisor in January 1977, and the Credit Data Systems
Expert in February 1978, all with the approval of the Association. In
September 1977, BI appointed the Project Manager, in consultation with the
Association. By September 1, 1978, the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor and the
Agricultural Advisor would be appointed with the agreement of IDA. During
negotiations, BI and the Association jointly reviewed and agreed upon draft
terms of reference, organization and operating guidelines for the CPMU.
6.17      PPMUs.  On the basis of draft terms of reference and a short list
both approved by the Association, BI received proposals for the PPMU consul-
tancy from seven firms at the end of 1976. In May 1977, BI began negotiations
with three firms for the award of separate contracts for the three provinces.
These contracts have since been signed on terms satisfactory to the Associ-
ation. The German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) has the contract
for West Sumatra; W.D. Scott & Co. Ltd., of Australia, for Central Java; and
Berenschot, Mozet and Bosboem, of the Netherlands, for East Java. The first
PPMU consultants began working in October 1977. As a condition of disburse-
ment of the credit component of the IDA credit for each province, the PPMU
head would have been appointed, after an exchange of views with the Associ-
ation. BI has already informed the Association of its choices for these
positions.
Formal Training
6.18      About 500 loan officers would handle KIK/KMKP in the approximately
200 branches in the three project provinces. In addition to on-the-job
training, formal classroom training in SSE development finance would be needed
for these 500 loan officers, their 200 credit-department heads and 200 branch
managers (or assistant branch managers), and perhaps 50-70 regional/head
office staff. The Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia
(LPPI - see Annex 7) would train the higher-level staff in the broader issues
underlying the KIK/KMKP program and the project, whereas the handling banks
themselves would provide all of the classroom training for the loan officers,
and would also train the supervisory staff in matters specific to each bank,
such as the bank's own procedure manual for KIK/KMKP loans, and problems of
the sector in which the bank has primary responsibility.



- 20 -
6.19      In October 1977, two Small-Enterprise Credit Training Experts
(Annex 8), supplied by GTZ, were hired by BI under the project, with the
Association's agreement, and assigned to LPPI for three years. By June 1,
1978, the consultants will prepare and furnish to the Association for review,
a detailed plan for training of loan officers and supervisors involved
in the project. The consultants would then design, test and help teach the
courses to be given at LPPI. They would also work with the handling banks to
design the courses to be given by the handling banks, would train the trainers
for those courses, and would assist them, as necessary, with implementation.
To maximize the consultants' long-run impact, LPPI would, by September 1,
1978, also appoint a small-enterprise-credit instructor to its permanent
staff, to work with and carry on after the consultants. In addition, under
the project, funds would be made available to cover 50% of the handling banks'
training costs of loan officers and supervisors involved in the project.
Credit Insurance Study
6.20      Although the credit insurance system administered by ASKRINDO
(Annex 5) has helped induce a high level of KIK/KMKP lending, it has not
given collateral-deficient enterprises much access to KIK/KMKP credits, as
BI requires that the banks take collateral equal to at least 100% of loan
amount, and the banks typically require much more. Furthermore, there is
the risk that the handling banks, being insured against 75% of their losses,
give less than adequate attention to supervision and collection efforts on
KIK/KMKP. To discourage the handling banks from submitting claims on loans
that they might be able to collect, with some additional effort, ASKRINDO has
established drawn-out claim-settlement procedures that have the unfortunate
side effect of wasting substantial time of key banking personnel. Finally,
instead of spreading the risk, the system concentrates the risk of high
KIK/KMKP default on a relatively small institution (ASKRINDO) which is much
more vulnerable to insolvency than the handling banks themselves. The
danger is particularly great because the fee paid to ASKRINDO (3% of the loan
amount) appears to be quite inadequate, given the riskiness of small-enter-
prise financing and the difficulties of foreclosing on collateral in Indonesia.
Government has agreed to guarantee any payments due from ASKRINDO, but recourse
to this last resort would mean that the system had failed to be self-sustaining.
Under the project, a major review of the credit-insurance system for KIK/KMKP
(Annex 6) would be undertaken by Government and financed by BI, under terms of
reference to be furnished to the Association by June 30, 1978, for an exchange
of views. The study would consider both improvements in the present system
and alternative arrangements. The study team's report would be submitted to
the Association for comment by December 31, 1978.



- 21 -
..^-^,-;-&.Std
6.21      By September 30, 1978, proposed terms of reference for a three-year
e~-"r-t-on study of project lending (Annex 14) would be furnished to the
Association for an exchange of views, and subsequently financed and contracted
out by BI to a suitable Indonesian research center or university. The study
w;vouLd evaluate the impact on production, employment, technology change and
access to new markets of a sample of subloans. It would also examine the
problems encountered, and would estimate the need and availability of tech-
nical support from Government agencies.
Project Cost and Financing
6.22      Total project cost is estimated at US$80.0 million (Rp 33.2 billion),
of which foreign exchange costs would be US$21.5 million, or 27% of the total.
Project cost by item is as follows:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
(Rp billion)               (US$ million)
Credit
KIK subloans (January 1978
prices)                        18.8     6.3    25.1         45.4    15.1    60.5
Price contingency (17%)/a         3.4     1.0      4.4         8.1     2.4    10.5
Subtotal (current prices)    22.2       7.3    29.5        53.5    17.5    71.0
Technical Assistance
Handling bank cost study          0.08      -      0.08       020      -       0.20
MI head office consultants        0.17    0.22    0.39         0.41    0.54    0.95
.3?HU consultants                0.48    0.86   134          1.16    2.07    3.23
Short-term consultants            0.08    0.12    0.20        020    0.30    0.50
Training experts and trainer    0.13    0.21    0.34           0.32    0.50    0.82
Handling bank training costs    0.62        -      0.62        1.50     -       1.50
Credit i nsurance study           0.04    0.04    0.08         0.10    0.10    0.20
Evaluation study                  0.17    -        0.17        0.40     -       0.40
Subtotal (Jan, 1978 prices)   1.77   1.45    3.22           4.29    3,51    7.80
Price contingency (15%)/a         0.33    0.15    0.48         0.71    0.49    1.20
Szbtotal (current prices)       2.1     1.6      3.7        5.0      4.0      9.0
(current prices)          24.3      8.9    33.2        58.5    21.5    80.0
/a  Based on local cost increases at 10% p.a. from 1978 onwards, and foreign
cost increases at 8% p.a.; weighted averages were used, based on 60%
ioreign cost of consultants and 25% foreign cost of credit.



-22 -
The credit component is the projected KIK lending in the three provinces over
two-and-a-half years (April 1, 1978 - September 30, 1980), based on an
estimated 9Z p.a. increase in lending in real terms during the project. /1
Real growth is expected to continue as the programs developed by the PPMUs
are implemented, and no shortage of loan demand is anticipated, but staff
limitations and the growing supervision and collection burden are expected to
keep the growth rate moderate over the project period, while the basis is
being laid for sustained growth over the longer term. The provincial and
annual breakdowns, on a commitment basis, are projected as follows:
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED KIK COMMITMENTS
IN THE THREE PROJECT PROVINCES
Pre-project /b                        Project                Total
FY:/a       1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78/b  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81           Project
------------------ US$ million (current prices)-------(half year)  Commitments
East Java         5.2      5.7       7.9     11.2  |   13.4       15.9      8.7           38.0
Central Java      5.1      5.2       5.9      8.1  j      9.6     11.4      6.3           27.3
West Sumatra      1.3      1.4       1.7      1.7         2.0       2.4     1.3            5.7
Total      11.6      12.3      15.5     21.0  I    25.0      29.7    16.3            71.0
/a  April 1 - March 31.
Lb Estimated, based on data through November 15, 1977.
The distribution by handling banks is estimated as follows: BRI 64%, Bank
Bumi Daya 10%, Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 9%, Bank Dagang Negara 4%, Bank
Ekspor-Impor Indonesia 2%, BAPINDO (with the regional development banks) and
selected private commercial banks, 11%. This reflects the present distribu-
tion in the three provinces, plus some further growth in BAPINDO's and the
private banks' shares. The sectoral distribution, based on past lending in
the project provinces, is estimated to be trade 27%, industry 23%, transport
23%, agriculture 23%, and other 4%.
6.23      The technical assistance would consist of 12 man-years of consul-
tancy for BI's head office, 42 man-years for the PPMUs, 6 man-years for LPPI,
the 6-month credit-insurance study, the 3-year evaluation study, about 8 man-
years for short-term consultancy, chiefly with the PPMUs, and training of hand-
ling bank loan officers and supervisors involved in the project. Local consul-
*tants are expected to be used for about 15 man-years of the PPMU consultancy,
3 man-years of BI head office consultancy (the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor
/1 In real terms, KIK lending in the three project provinces declined by 11%
from 1974/75 to 1975/76 as procedures were tightened up, and increased
about 8% from 1975/76 to 1976/77, and at a rate of 23% p.a. over April-
November, 1977.



- 23 -
and the Data Systems Expert), 4 man-years of the short-term consultancy, and
the evaluation study. Consultant costs would average US$80,000 (1978 prices)
per man-year, of which about 60% would be foreign exchange. About US$1.2
million of retroactive finance would be included, for the Project Advisor
(from June 1976), Small-Business Advisor (from January 1977), and for the
PPMUs (from October 1977).
6.24      An IDA Credit of US$40O.0 million equivalent, on standard terms, is
proposed. The Association would finance 50% of total project cost, including
US$18.6 million of local costs. The local cost financing would enable IDA to
play a more significant role in influencing the formulation and implementation
of the proposed project. The credit would be made to Government, which, as
in the case of previous Bank Group operations with BAPINDO, would bear the
foreign exchange risk. Government would pass on the funds to BI, the exe-
cuting agency, at 2% p.a. interest, with a maturity of 20 years including
4 1/2 years' grace on principal. The funds would be further passed on to the
handling banks at 3% p.a., as part of the 80% of KIK loans rediscounted by
BI. The significant roll-over of funds by BI is justified on sector grounds,
as otherwise opportunities for Bank Group credit projects to SSEs would be
limited, in view of the relatively short maturity period of SSE subloans.
6.25      The proposed financing plan is as follows (in current prices):
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total   Share
(Rp billion)               (US$ million)
Credit
IDA                  6.8     7.2    14.0       16.3    17.5    33.8      48%
BI                   9.5      -       9.5      23.0       -     23.0      32%
Handling Banks       5.9      -       5.9      14.2       -     14.2      20%
Subtotal      22.2      7.2    29.4       53.5    17.5    71.0    100%
Technical Assistance
and Training
IDA                  1.0     1.6      2.6       2.3      3.9     6.2     69%
BI                   0.7     0.1      0.8       1.8      0.1     1.9     21%
Handling Banks       0.4      -       0.4       0.9      -       0.9     10%
Subtotal       2.1      1.7     3.8        5.0     4.0      9.0    100%
Total Project
IDA                  7.7     8.9    16.6       18.6    21.4    40.0      50%
BI                  10.3     0.0    10.3       24.8     0.1    24.9      31%
Handling Banks       6.3      -       6.3      15.1      -      15.1     19%
Total         24.3      8.9    33.2       58.5    21.5    80.0    100%



- 24 -
Subloan Terms and Conditions
6.26      As KIK is an on-going program which is generally proceeding satis-
factorily, the existing KIK loan terms and conditions, policies and procedures
would initially be adopted, except that:
(a) the five-year maturity limit and Rp 5 million loan ceiling would
be adjusted, as justified, on a category-by-category basis
(para. 5.03);
(b) penalty interest at 3% p.a. would be charged and collected
(para. 5.05); and
(c) in the project provinces, handling banks would take appropriate
measures to ensure that their branches achieve and maintain a
satisfactory level of KIK loan collection performance (para. 5.13).
At negotiations, BI and the Association reviewed and agreed upon a list of
the main rules and regulations of the KIK/KMKP program; these rules and
regulations could subsequently be modified by BI provided that, in the
opinion of the Association, such modifications would not materially and
adversely affect the objectives or execution of the project. Further modi-
fications in KIK policies and procedures might follow from the study by
the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor (para. 6.10). The Association considers BI's
KIK/KMKP policy and strategy statement (Annex 15) to be a satisfactory basis
for the project.
Disbursement
6.27      For purposes of complying with the disbursement procedure in
respect of project subloans, the established procedures and documentation by
which BI reviews, approves and rediscounts subloans are considered adequate.
The withdrawal applications would be submitted by the CPMU, and disbursements
would be made on the following basis: (a) 100% of total expenditures for
expatriate and Indonesian consultants; (b) 50% of handling bank costs for
staff training; and (c) 60% of amounts disbursed by BI to handling banks for
the credit component, representing 48% of total subloan amounts supported by
certificates of expenditure prepared by BI certifying that equivalent amounts
had been disbursed to project sub-borrowers. The loan-by-loan documentation
for the certificates of expenditure would be retained by the handling banks
and made available for review by the Association. Applications for withdrawal
of funds in respect of consultants' services and handling bank staff training
under (a) and (b) above, would be fully documented in accordance with standard
IDA requirements. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.2 million is recom-
mended for technical assistance costs since June 1976 (para. 6.23). Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.
Procurement
6.28      During the first three years of the KIK/KMKP program, no circular
had been issued to the handling banks on either procurement or loan disburse-
ment procedures. As a result, each handling bank, and in practice often each



- 25 -
branch, determined its own policy. To correct this situation, BI issued
in November 1977, a directive to the handling banks stating that, wherever
feasible, (a) borrowers would obtain and submit to the handling bank three
price quotations from suppliers/contractors, (b) disbursements would be
made directly to the supplier/ contractor, and (c) disbursements would be
made in tranches, after inspections to ensure that the project was being
carried out properly. The KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor would later examine
the handling banks' procurement and disbursement procedures, and recommend
further improvements as warranted.
6.29      Given the small size, great variety and wide geographic spread of
the subloans, bulking for the purposes of carrying out competitive bidding
would not be feasible. However, in the appraisal report for each program
that would be developed, there would be an explanation of measures to be
taken to ensure that goods and services were procured at competitive prices.
Accounts and Audit
6.30      The regional offices of BI and the handling banks would each keep
separate accounts of their respective approvals, disbursements, collections
and arrears for KIK in that province. These would be reconciled by BI and
the handling banks respectively, and such reconciled accounts would be
audited by the State Accountancy Directorate. In addition, all handling
banks would have their accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association (the
State Accountancy Directorate, in the case of state-owned banks). Combined
and reconciled project account audit reports for each of the three project
provinces, along with the handling banks' full audit reports, would be sent
to the Association not later than nine months after the end of the handling
banks' financial year.
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
6.31      The project monitoring and reporting requirements are shown
in Annex 16. The CPMU would submit quarterly progress reports, and "Annual
Review and Planning Papers" to the Association; the latter would form the
basis of joint annual reviews of the project by BI and the Association. In
addition, each handling bank branch would maintain up-to-date files, maps and
financial summaries of its project subloans, which would be available for
review by the Association.
Project Execution Schedule
6.32      The estimated timing of project implementation is given in Annex 17.
Implementation of the technical assistance component is relatively well advanced
(para. 6.16).  Project sublending is expected to begin April 1, 1978.  The
expected IDA credit disbursement schedule is given in Annex 18. The action
program for project implementation is shown in Annex 19.



- 26 -
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The project would provide needed technical and financial assistance
to make KIK/KMKP a more effective and efficient system for channeling devel-
opment finance to SSEs. In two important respects KIK/KMKP is already
supporting Government's economic and social objectives. First, it is sup-
porting a labor-intensive sector. Based on a sample of KIK loans, it appears
to take an average of about US$3,300 (in 1978 prices) of fixed investment to
create one job in the SSE sector (compared to US$11,000-22,000 for large- and
medium-scale industry); project lending of US$60.5 million (in 1978 prices)
would therefore create about 18,000 jobs. In the development of subsectoral
lending programs under the project, special attention would be paid to the
use of labor-intensive technologies where available. Second, the share of
KIK/KMKP finance going to small cities and rural areas is about 65%, which
is a much higher share than for most other private-sector investment.
7.02      Previous surveys have not provided sufficient data for project
financial and economic rates of return to be estimated a priori; in the
evaluation study, however, these rates of return would be calculated for a
sample of subloans. As with most credit programs to the private sector, the
primary guarantee of satisfactory financial returns on the individual subpro-
jects lies in the properly guided and regulated self interest of the borrowers.
The project would improve KIK/KMKP lending operations to help ensure that
adequate financial returns are secured and complemented by satisfactory
economic returns.
7.03      The project would also strengthen the handling banks' term-lending
capabilities, thereby reducing the administrative costs of lending, improving
collections, and inducing more lending for qualified new clients. These
three indicators would be monitored under the project.
Risks
7.04      The major risk to the project is that the handling banks would
encounter growing arrears as lending expands, and hence would hold back
further expansion to a level below the desired rate. To reduce this risk, the
project would endeavor to ensure that KIK/KMKP lending was profitable to the
handling banks, so that improvements to and expansion of the program would be
done primarily on a voluntary basis. The main steps towards this end would be
(a) a review of the interest rate margin to the handling banks (para. 5.05),
(b) direct efforts to reduce arrears (para. 5.13), and (c) training handling-
bank staff, improving KIK/KMKP procedures, and channelling existing lending
into well-defined programs whenever appropriate, which should all tend to
reduce administrative costs and improve collections performance. Furthermore,
to help ensure that the handling banks and the project consultants work in
concert, staff from the regional and head offices of the handling banks would
be assigned as counterparts to the PPMU consultants, and the handling banks
would participate in scheduling the PPMUs' operations.



- 27 -
7.05      An additional risk is that much of the project lending would have
only limited developmental impact if advisory services and other technical
support were not made available to project subborrowers. To alleviate
this risk, the PPMUs would acquaint themselves with the service capabilities
of the various technical agencies in the project provinces, advise the
handling bank loan officers where to refer prospective subborrowers for
needed technical assistance, and cooperate on a selective basis with such
agencies when developing specific subsectoral lending programs. Furthermore,
by assessing the extent of and the need for technical support to subborrowers,
the project would lay the groundwork for subsequent improvements in these
services.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(i) undertake a study of the credit-insurance system for KIK/KMKP, under
terms of reference to be furnished to the Association by June 30,
1978, for an exchange of views; the study report would be submitted
to the Association for comment by December 31, 1978 (para. 6.20);
and
(ii) cause all state-owned handling banks to have their accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by the State
Accountancy Directorate; and to submit the ensuing audit report to
the Association, not later than nine months after the end of each
such year (para. 6.30);
8.02      During negotiations, BI and the Association agreed on:
(i) the draft terms of reference, organization, and operating guidelines
for the CPMU and the PPMUs (paras. 6.16 and 6.17);
(ii) the KIK/KMKP policy and strategy statement (para. 6.26);
(iii) BI's directive to the handling banks on procurement and
disbursement procedures (para. 6.28); and
(iv) the main rules and regulations of the KIK/KMKP program; these
rules and regulations could subsequently be modified by BI provided
that, in the opinion of the Association, such modifications would
not materially and adversely affect the project's objectives or
implementation (para. 6.26).
8.03      During negotiations, BI agreed to:
(i) increase the general KIK/KMKP loan ceiling from time to time, to
take into account past and future increases in price levels and, in



- 28 -
addition, to make exceptions, as justified on a category-by-category
basis, to both the loan ceiling and the five-year maturity limit
(para. 5.03);
(ii)  cause all banks lending under KIK/KMKP to actually charge and
collect, not later than March 31, 1978, the 3% p.a. penalty interest
on KIK/KMKP loans more than ninety days in arrears and not eligible
for rescheduling (para. 5.05);
(iii) undertake a study of handling banks' total KIK/KMKP administrative
and financial costs, under terms of reference to be submitted to the
Association by June 30, 1978, for an exchange of views; the study
report would be submitted to the Association for comment by-March 31,
1979 (para. 5.05);
(iv)  cause handling banks to take adequate measures to ensure that
handling bank branches participating under the project achieve and
maintain a satisfactory level of KIK loan collection performance
(para. 5.13);
(v) cause KMKP loans to be made, as needed, to project subborrowers
(para. 6.07);
(vi)  by September 1, 1978, appoint the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor
and Agricultural Advisor, with the agreement of the Association
(para. 6.17);
(vii) have the Small Enterprise Credit Training Experts prepare a
detailed plan for training handling bank loan officers and
supervisors involved in the project, to be furnished to the Associ-
ation for review by June 1, 1978; and appoint a small enterprise
credit instructor to LPPI's permanent staff by September 1, 1978
(para. 6.19);
(viii) contract out to a suitably qualified Indonesian research center
or university the evaluation study of project lending, under terms
of reference to be furnished to the Association by September 30,
1978, for an exchange of views; study report to be furnished to the
Association for comment by March 31, 1980 (para. 6.21);
(ix)  retain and cause the handling banks to retain suitable back-up
documentation, available for review by IDA missions, for its
certificates of expenditure against which IDA disbursements would
be made (para. 6.27);
(x) maintain and cause handling banks to maintain separate accounts
for project lending, to be audited by the State Accountancy Direc-
torate; project account audit reports to be furnished to the
Association not later than nine months after the end of the handl-
ing banks' financial year (para. 6.30); and



- 29 -
(xi) cause all nonstate-owned handling banks to have their accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year, audited by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; respective audit
reports to be submitted to the Association not later than nine
months after the end of these banks' financial year (para. 6.30).
8.04      As a condition of disbursement of the credit component of the IDA
credit for each province, the PPMU head would have been appointed after an
exchange of views with the Association (para. 6.17).
8.05      Subject to the above, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$40.0 million on standard terms.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE) Sector
Definition
1.        The definition of small scale enterprises (SSEs) in Indonesia varies
among institutions:
(a) Bank Indonesia (BI) has set financial criteria to define SSEs for
the purpose of eligibility for KIK/KMKP loans. Under BI's defi-
nition an SSE has (i) a net worth not in excess of Rp 20 million
(US$48,000), and (ii) current assets not in excess of Rp 10 million
(US$24,000).
(b) The Central Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Industry
define industrial SSEs as manufacturing establishments which employ
5-19 workers (for medium-scale industry 20-99; for large-scale 100
or more)./l
Table 1 shows the division of employment and production a ong sectors that
are predominantly large-scale, small-scale and mixed.
Industry
2.        Still in an early stage of development, Indonesia's manufacturing
sector contributes approximately 11% of GDP, and 10% of total exports and
employment.  During 1968-73 the sector grew at about 9.2% p.a. (Table 2) and
in the current Plan a growth of 13% p.a. is projected. While comprehensive
and comparable data are not available, /2 Table 3, derived from the 1973
Survey of Manufacturing Industries, and the National Income Accounts, presents
a broad indication of the distribution of value added and employment in the
manufacturing sector. Table 4 gives in greater detail the structure of large-
and medium-scale industries in 1973.
/1 Before 1975 the following definitions were used: SSE, 1-4 employees
with power equipment and 1-9 without; medium 5-49 with and 10-99
without; large, 50 or more with and 100 or more without power. The
available SSE data (based on this earlier definition) covers only the
lowest range of the SSE spectrum, i.e. very small and cottage industries.
Even the current expanded definition of SSEs covers only the lower
segment of what would generally be considered the SSE sector; larger
modern SSEs still fall into the medium-scale category, and as such may
not be able to take advantage of Government assistance programs for
SSEs.
/2 Employment and output data obtained from surveys of manufacturing differ
from that indicated by the population census and national income accounts.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Over 74% of industrial value-added in 1973 was accounted for by the
larger industries, although the SSEs provided over 65% of total employment
in manufacturing. Food, beverages, tobacco, and textiles account for over
58% of total industrial value added and employment, and wood and leather
ploducts about 10%. Recent new additions to industrial capacity, including
assembly of electronic equipment, motor vehicles, and electric machinery,
both for export and domestic consumption, still account for less than 5% of
industrial value-added and employment.
4.        Based on national income accounts, it is estimated that in 1973
about 2.3% of GDP originated in the small-scale industries /1 (Table 2);
output of the sector has been increasing in recent years by about 2.9% p.a.,/2
and employment by around 1.7% p.a., compared to a 5.6% p.a. employment
increase in medium and large industries. The industrial SSEs' share of GDP
declined from 2.8% in 1968 to about 2.3% in 1973, and its share of total
manufacturing output from 34% to 28%.
5.        About two-thirds of the value added in industrial SSEs (Table 7) is
accounted for by food, beverages, and tobacco (34%), wood and furniture (24%)
and textiles and apparel (5%). In 1973, industrial SSEs accounted for 19%,
71% and 9% of the total output (including large and medium industries) in
each of these industrial subsectors, respectively. Small cities and rural
areas account for 91% of the industrial SSE establishments, 88% of employment
and 62% of value added (Table 6).
6.        Productivity of industrial SSEs as a whole is very low:  value
added per employee in 1973 was about Rp 155,000 (US$370 in 1977 prices) com-
pared to about Rp 845,000 (US$2,040) for medium and large industries (Table 3).
Industrial SSE value added per worker in rural areas is only about 20-25%
(US$250) of that in urban areas (US$1,150). As estimated from the 1973 survey
statistics, annual wages/employee for the medium and large industries was about
US$350 (in 1977 prices), and for industrial SSEs only about US$50 (Table 6).
However, most industrial SSE employees are not engaged full time in these
/1 Analysis of the structure of the industrial SSE sector is based on the
pre-1975 definition.
/2 The surveys undertaken by the Central Bureau of Statistics indicate
little, if any, increase in gross value added, employment and number of
establishments during the period 1969-73 (Table 6). However, the national
income accounts data seem more credible in this case because agricultural
output (including forestry and fisheries) has been expanding by 3.5% p.a.
and there is a close correlation between the growth rates of agriculture
and rural industries. Thus, the figure of 2.9% p.a. growth for small-
scale industries - 91% of which are rural industries - is consistent
with the agricultural growth rate.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
activities. A 1975 survey of household and cottage industries (1-5 people with
or without power) estimated that full-time participation represented only 50%
of the total man-days, with part time participation 42%, and household workers
without wage reiuneration 8%.
7.        Since 1967, when the new investment incentive laws were introduced,
there has been a rapid growth of larger, more capital-intensive industries.
In some subsectors, notably textile spinning and weaving, beverages, rice
milling, rubber, cigarettes and basic metal industries, these new modern
industries have been replacing smaller traditional ones. This development,
while successful in raising overall production, may have adversely affected
industrial employment and the rural/urban balance. During the Second Plan,
one of the main Government objectives is to redress these imbalances through
increased resource allocation to the more labor-intensive industrial SSEs.
Agriculture
8.        Agriculture - including forestry and fishery - contributes about
40% of GDP, generates 90% of non-oil exports and nearly two-thirds of employ-
ment. Agricultural output has been groving at about 3.5% p.as  Such a growth
rate, if sustained, could lead to self-sufficiency in the production of the
basic staple, rice, and provide increased exports and additional jobs in
agro-related activities. The structure of the sector is dualistic, consisting
of 12 - 13 million smallholder farmers who cultivate about 13 million ha and
about 1,300 large estates covering 1.7 million ha. The 1973 agricultural
census indicates that 70% of all farms had less than 1 ha of land. Small-
holders dominate agricultural production in all subsistence and cash crops,
except oil palm. Food crops, principally rice, cassava, corn, soybeans,
fruits and vegetables, account for about 65% of total agricultural output.
The main cash crops are rubber, tea, coconuts, oil palm, sugar, and coffee.
These crops, with the exception of sugar, are Indonesia's major export crops.
9.        The primary aim of development policies in this sector has been to
increase food supplies and improve net foreign exchange earnings by raising
crop exports and reducing rice imports. In the First Plan, investments were
directed towards rehabilitation, first of neglected irrigation networks and
other essential infrastructure affecting smallholders, and second of
rundown public sector estates (mostly rubber and oil palm) which were well
placed to improve agricultural exports fairly quickly. Rice (paddy) produc-
tion increased from 12.2 million tons in 1969 to 15.3 million tons in 1975.
Production of a number of export crops, particularly rubber, oil palm, tea
and coffee, also grew substantially. In the current Plan greater emphasis is
placnd on raising the productivity and incomes of the smallholders. In
pursuit of these objectives, Government has introduced a wide range of assist-
a-ace progras to the agricultural sector, especially low-interest credit
schemes, extension services and research.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Transport
10.       After a period of stagnation during the 1960's, output in the
transport sector has grown rapidly. Value added grew at nearly 13.8% p.a.,
in real terms, from 1968-1973, increasing the sector's share of total GDP
from 2.8% to 3.8%; however, this is still a relatively small share compared to
other developing countries. In 1973 approximately half of the output was
contributed by road transport (Table 7); output in this subsector doubled
during 1968-73. While no reliable data exist on employment in the sector,
rough estimates indicate that in 1973 about 750,000 people were employed in the
motorized transport sector (not including workers in ancillary transport
activities like repair shops, gas stations, etc.); in the same year roughly
470,000 betjaks (three-wheeled bicycle rickshaws) were in operation. Most of
the employment in the motorized transport sector is in road transportation such
as operators of buses, trucks, vans, pickups and taxis.
11.       Most of the transport SSEs are in road transport and inland water
transport; thus in 1971 there were about 18,000 sailing vessels and a motor
vehicle fleet of about 165,000 composed of buses, trucks, vans, pickups and
taxis. Lack of ownership and fleet size data makes it difficult to ascertain
the size structure of road transport companies; however, the strong demand for
KIK/KMKP loans for road transport activities indicates a large number of SSEs
in that sector.
12.       The road transport industry, which is largely in private hands,
responded dynamically to improved roads and economic conditions since around
1970; both the quality and fleet size improved sharply during the past
several years. The average age of road vehicles decreased from 12.1 to 10.6
years, between 1969 and 1972. Between 1971 and 1976 registration of motor
vehicles, including cars, buses, trucks and motorcycles increased at about
17.6% p.a. (Table 8). Highest growth rates were registered by motorcycles
(22% p.a.), followed by trucks (13.9% p.a.), buses (11.6% p.a.), and passenger
cars (10.2% p.a.). Growth was sharply accelerated during the last three
years of this period, to about 21% p.a.
13.       During the current Plan, a primary aim of the Government in the
transport sector is an improved road network, which, coupled with increased
economic activity, would generate increased demand for commercial vehicles.
While the Government is directing efforts towards improving public bus
services, the demand for services of private minibuses, taxis, and "bajaj"
(three-wheeled motorized rickshaws) is likely to increase considerably,
as well as for minitrucks and pickup vans.
Trade and Services
14.       Although about 40% of the KIK/KMKP credit has been directed towards
trade and services (construction equipment and supplies, retail markets and
goods, repair facilities, restaurants, hotels, etc.), very few data are
available on these sectors. A significant share of the total GDP (18%) and
employment (16%) is generated in the trade and services (including construc-
tion) sector.  Between 1971 and 1975, output (in real terms) in the construction



34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
sector increased at about 21% Do.a.; as a percent of total GDP it increased from
3.0% in 1971 to 4.7% in 1975. Employment in 1971 amounted to about 700,000 in
construction.  During the same period, output in retail trade and services
(excluding financial institutions and related services) increased by about 6.7%
p.a. The 1971 census indicates tha- employment in the retail trade was about
2.6 million, while about 3.5 million were engaged in restaurant, hotel, commun-
ity, social and personnel services.
15.       Comprehensive national income and productivity data on the services
sector are not available; however, a 1973 survey of wholesale and retail
traders and restaurants in Yogyakarta showed an average annual value added per
enterprise of about US$420 (in 1977 prices). In the rural areas it was much
lower (US$330) than in the cities (US$590).
Problems Confronting SSEs
16.       Indonesian SSEs suffer from many financial, managerial and marketing
problems traditionally associated with the SSE sector in most developing countries.
Given the wide variety and d4spersed character of the SSEs, the problems en-
countered vary greatly; however, tciere are a fewv common problems which confront
a majority of the small entrepreneurs.
17.       Investment and Credit Problems.  Limited access tc institutional
credit is one of the most important constraints to the growth of Indonesian
SSEs. Until recently, very little medium- or 'ong-term credit for investment
or permanent working capital was channelled to SSEso Hesitance of banks to
grant credit to small entrepreneurs because of higher risks and administrative
costs, has contributed towards the inadequate allocation of funds to the SSEs.
Additionally, inability of small entrepreneurs to supply financial data,
because of lack of bookkeeping, nakes it difficult for banks to evaluate
projects.
18.       Marketing.  SSEs are at a dlsadvanrage vis-a-vis larger firms in
marketing. The complexity of market conditions and sales outlets restricts the
ability of small entrepreneurs to analyze market trends and to discover possible
new outlets. Small firms generally cater to local markets and lack direct
access to larger lucrative markets; distances, poor quality and design,
limited production capacity, and lack of information about Dotential markets
restrict their growth. Small firms in the rural areas generally are in a worse
situation.
19.       Management.  Small entrepreneurs are generally unaware of basic
management concepts of organization, financial planning and controls, project
and profitability analysis, sales promotion and marketing. 'While these manage-
ment functions are not critical to the subsistence operations of the informal
sector, in their absence there is little hope of significant growth leading to
the emergence of a broadly based modern SSE sector. Also, the lack of basic
management skills makes it difficult for m-any entrepreneurs ;o qualify for bank
credit and other ass-stance e^sily accessibla2 to larger firms.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
20.       Technology.  Processing techniques and equipment are generally
antiquated, resulting in high production costs and poor product quality. As
with management weaknesses, the lack of technical capability is not too criti-
cal in the informal sector where traditional know-how is commensurate with the
very small scale and simplicity of operations. But without assistance in
selecting alternative technologies and equipment, as well as in repair and
maintenance, plant layout, quality control, etc., growth and efficiency of the
modern SSE sector will continue to be severely limited.
21.       Other.  Other problems facing small producers are the poor quality
of rural infrastructure, especially roads and electricity, and the tax collec-
tion procedures, which severely strain SSEs' working capital, as sales taxes
and other indirect taxes have to be paid in advance.
Employment Creation
22.       Bi has analyzed the capital/labor ratios for a sample of 100 KIK/KMKP
loan recipients in each of the five economic sectors. The capital/labor ratios
so derived (in 1975/76 prices) were Rp 500,000 per job in the trade sector,
Rp 530,000 in industry, Rp 920,000 in agriculture, Rp 1.9 million in trans-
port and Rp 1.5 million for small hotels and other services. The weighted
average (based on the proportion of each of these sectors in total KIK lending)
is about Rp 1 million (US$2,500) per job created. Although comparative invest-
ment costs per direct jobs created are not available for the different sectors,
survey data on the manufacturing sector show an average fixed asset/employee
ratio of US$10,000-20,000 for large- and medium-scale firms compared to
US$1,000-1,500 for SSEs.
Project Provinces
23.       East Java, Central Java and West Sumatra, contain about 42% of
Indonesia's population, in an area of about 132,000 sq km or 7% of total land
area (Table 9). The provinces provide about 46% of the employment and contri-
bute over 32% of the GDP. In 1971, the three provinces accounted for 36% of
the output and 42% of employment in agriculture, 43% of output and 49% of
employment in manufacturing, 28% of output and 35% of employment in transport,
and 28% of output and 62% of employment in trade and services.
24.       In 1974, about 45% of all industrial SSE establishments were in the
project provinces (Table 12); 24% in East Java, 19% in Central Java and 2% in
West Sumatra. As on the national level, most of the industrial SSEs in the
project provinces are engaged in food, beverages and tobacco (53%), textiles
and apparel (15%), and wood and products (10%). In East Java there is also a
sizeable small-scale metal-working industry, producing a variety of products
from simple tools and cooking utensils to small rice hullers and other simple
mechanical appliances, and a recently developed transport equipment industry,
producing bodies and accessories for mini-buses and other vehicles. Central
Java contains over 49% of all textile and apparel establishments in Indonesia.
West Sumatra has the necessary ingredients for developing a building materials
industry, due to the abundance of limestone, nonferrous minerals, hardwoods and
other forest products.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Employment and Output By Sector, 1971
Employment /a        Value Added         Value Added
Million   % of       Billion   % of        per worker
Workers   Total        Rp       Total      (Rp 1,000)
1. Large-Scale and Capital-
Intensive Sectors
Mining                         .08        .2          249       6.5       3,109
Forestry                       .12        .3          142      4.0        1,182
Public utilities               .04        .1           18         5         443
Wholesale trade                .10        .3          356      9.4        3,560
Banking, insurance             .09        .2           45      1.2          503
Ownership of dwellings          -          -           74      2.0          -
Subtotal                     .43      1.1          884      23.6        2,056
2. Mixed Sectors
Fisheries                      .53       1.3          116      3.0          218
Manufacturing, large &
medium                      1.00       2.4          267      7.0          267
Construction                   .68       1.5          128      3.4          188
Transport & Communication    .95         2.0          162      4.3          170
Public Admin. & Defense       1.28       3.0          214      5.6          168
Subtotal                    4.44     10.7          887      23.3          200
3. Small-Scale and Labor-
Intensive Sectors
Small-scale industry          1.83       4.5           90      2.3           49
Retail trade /b               2.62       6.3          356       9.4         136
Hotels, restaurants
and other services          3.47       8.3         181       4.8           52
Agriculture                  28.47      69.1        1,397     36.6            49
Subtotal                   36.39     88.2        2,024      53.1           55
Total                      41.26    100.0        3,795    100.0            91
/a Average between "on-season" and "off-season" employment.
/b  Average income in retail trade is probably overstated and incomes in
other traditional activities understated to the extent that producers
market their own products but are not counted as part-time traders.
Source: Indonesia, Basic Economic Report 1975.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value Added in Manufacturing, 1968 and 1973
(constant 1960 prices)
Average annual
growth rates       % of Total GDP
1968    1973        1968-73           1968   1973
(Rp billion)    ----- (X) ----
Large & medium
establishments             26.7    47.0           12.0             5.4    6.6
Small establishments         14.1    16.3            2.9             2.8    2.3
Total manufacturing
sector                     40.8    63.3           9.2              8.2    8.9
Total GDP (all sectors)   496.9   707.2              7.5           100.0  100.0
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subsectoral Structure of Manufacturing, 1973
Value Added                                Employment
Number of Establishments                         (Rp billion)                                  ('000)
Large           Total                     Large         Total                     Large           Total
Small  and Medium       No.      %        Small  and Medium   Amt.       %        Small  and Medium    No.         %
Food, beverages, and
tobacco                      235,247   15,262   250,509   27.6            50       206        256   44.8          635      498       1,133   37.3
Textiles and apparel             83,528    4,070    87,598    9.6             7       71          78   13.6          157      173         330   10.8
Leather and products              2,643       154      2,797    0.3           2         6          8    1.5           11        7          18    0.6
Wood and products               429,406    2,072   431,478   47.5           35         14         49    8.5          794       41         835   27.5             X
Other industry                  130,722    6,531   137,253   15.0           53       127         180   31.5          394      330         724   23.8
Total                    881,546   28,089   909.635  100.0           147       424        571  100.0        1,991   1,049        3,040  100.0
Each as a percent of total         97.0       3.0      100.0              25.7      74.3      100.0                 65.4    34.6        100.0
Source:  Survey of Small-Scale Industry, Jan.-April 1974; Survey of Large- and Medium-Scale Industry, 1973;
National Income Accounts, 1973.
I-L1



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subsectoral Structure of Large- and Medium-Scale Industries, 1973
(current prices)
Establishments           Value added          Employment
No.           %        Rp billion   %        '000        %
Food and beverages               14,024           50.0         73       17.2      344       32.8
Tobacco manufactures              1,238            4.3         62       14.6      154       14.7
Textiles                          4,070          14.6          71       17.6      173       16.5
Leather products                     154           0.5          6         1.4       7        0.6
Rubber products                      741           2.6         23        5.4      146       13.9
Wood products                     2,072            7.3         14        3.2       41        3.9
Pulp and paper                      105            0.4          7        1.5        9        0.8
Printing and publishing              728           2.6         15        3.5       21        2.0
Chemicals and chemical
products                           681            2.4         5         1.1       38        3.6
Non-metallic mineral products   1,966              7.0         10        2.2       42        4.0
Basic metal products              1,035            3.7          7        1.5       29        2.8
Engineering industries              383           1.4         25         5.8       29       2.8
Other industries                    892            3.2       106        25.0       16        1.5
Total                 28,089         100.0        424       100.0   1,049       100.0
/a  Defined as establishments employing 10 or more workers without power, or
5 or more workers with power.
Source:  Survey of Large- and Medium-Scale Industry, 1973; National Income
Accounts, 1973.



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subsectoral Structure of Small-Scale Industries, 1968 and 1973
Number of Establishments ('000)       -                 Number of Employees ('000)                Value Added (RP billion) la
SSI Subsector                       1968                 1973        Growth rate          1968                1973          Growth rate              1973
No.        %        No.       %         1968-73       No.        1         No.       %         1968-73           Amount      %
(1 p.a.)                                              (X p.a.)
Food, beverages, and
tobacco                     222.7      26.1      235.2    27.6          1.4         632.1    31.7       634.9    31.9         0.1                50       34.0
Textiles and apparel          117.8      13.7       83.5      9.5        -8.4         245.0    12.3        157.2      7.9     -10.5                 7        4.8
Leather and products             6.0      0.7        2.7      0.3       -18.0          11.8      0.6        10.8      0.5       -2.3                 2       1.3
Wood and products             226.2      26.4      429.4    48.7         17.4         451.4    22.6        794.1    39.9        15.2               35       23.8
Other                         283.5      33.1      130.7    14.8        -17.5         655.2    32.8        393.9    19.8       -12.0               53       36.1
Total                   856.2    100.0       881.5   100.0         0.8       1,995.5   100.0    1,990.9   100.0           -                 147      100.0
La 1968 output data by subsectors not available.
Source:  Survey of Small-scale Industry, Jan.-April 1970; Survey of Small-scale Industry, Jan.-April 1974; National Income Accounts 1973.
(D H



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production and Employment in Small-Scale Industry, 1969 and 1973
(current prices)
Annual
1969             1973          growth rate
No.       %      No.        %     1969-73 (%)
No. of Establishments ('000)           856    100        882    100          0.8
Urban                                 62       7       78       9          6.0
Rural                                794     93       804      91         0.3
No. of Employees ('000)              1,995    100    1,991    100             -
Urban                                179       9      230      12          6.8
Rural                             1,816       91    1,761      88        -0.8
Annual Wages and Salaries
Total Sector (Rp million)         9,036    100   19,260    100            21.0
(per employee, Rp)             (4,530)           (9,670)
Urban                             1,620       18    5,580      29        36.0
(per employee, Rp)             (9,050)          (24,260)
Rural                             7,416       82   13,680       71        16.5
(per employee, Rp)             (4,080)           (7,770)
Gross Output
Total Sector (Rp billion)            120    100       269    100          22.5
(per employee, Rp)            (60,400)        (134,500)
Urban                                 26      22       101     38         40.0
(per employee, Rp)           (145,000)        (420,800)
Rural                                 94      78       168     62         15.6
(per employee, Rp)            (52,000)          (98,800)
Value Added
Total Sector (Rp billion)             64    100        126    100         18.4
(per employee, Rp)            (32,000)          (63,000)
Urban                                 15      23        48     38        34
(per employee, Rp)            (83,800)         (208,690)
Rural                                 49      77        79     62         12.7
(per employee, Rp)            (27,000)          (44,900)
Sources: Survey of Small-Scale Industry, January-April 1970.
Survey of Small-Scale Industry, January-April 1974.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value Added in Transport, 1968 - 1973
(Rp billion, constant 1960 prices)
1968     1969      1970      1971      1972      1973
Land Transport                   7.2       7.5      8.0      11.3      12.8      13.8
PJKA (Railways)               0.6       0.6       0.5       0.6       0.6       0.6
Road                          6.6       6.9       7.5      10.7      12.2      13.2
Sea Transport                    1.1       1.1      1.3       1.5       1.7       1.9
Air Transport                    0.7       0.9       1.1      1.6       2.0       2.4
Other (inland water,
ferries, etc.)                5.0       6.6       6.6       7.3       8.5      8.6
Total                    14.0      16.1      17.0     21.7      25.0      26.7
Total GDP                     497.0    531.0    571.0    611.0    654.0    707.0
Transport as % in GDP           2.8       3.0       3.0       3.5       3.8       3.8
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Registration Data by Types of Vehicles, 1971 -_1976
(number of vehicles)
Average
growth rate
per annum
1971         1972        1973         1974         1975         1976      1971-76
Passenger Cars /a       259,282      277,210      306,713      337,789      383,061      419,391       10.2%              w
U.)
Buses                    22,797       26,488       30,036       31,439       35,103        39,475      11.6%
Trucks                  115,082      131,175      143,252      166,457      196,416      220,879       13.9%
Motorcycles             528,079      615,220      714,333      944,733   1,191,771   1,410,163         22.0%
Total             925,240   1,050,093   1,194,334   1,480,418   1,806,351   2,089,908            17.6%
/a  Every vehicle used for carriage of passengers for hire or reward with maximum capacity for eight
passengers, excluding driver's seat.
Source: Directorate of Road Traffic and Transportation.
H t
ae z
r00>



- 44 -                                       ANNEX I
Table 9
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Output and Employment by Sector for Project Provinces, 1971
(current prices)
Constr.,             Total
Agric.  Manufacturing    Transp. trade &                   all
Total  of which              services    Other  sectors
SSEs
Indonesia
Output (Rp billion)         1,655    356         90      162      19021        601   3,795
Employment ('000)         29,120  2,830    1,830         951      6,770      1,590  41,261
East Java
Output (Rp billion)           326      87        23       30        142         72      657
% of provincial /a        49.6   13.2        3.5      4.6       21.6        11.0   100.0
% of sectoral /b          19.6   24.4       25.5    18.8         13.9       12.0    17.3
Employment ('000)           6,503    541      n.a.       187      2,137        386   9,754
% of provincial           66.7    5.6         -       1.9       21.9         3.9   100.0
% of sectoral             22.3   19.1         -      19.7       31.6        24.3    23.6
Central Java
Output (Rp billion)           236      62        13       11        124         55      488
% of provincial           48.4   12.7        2.6      2.2       25.4        11.3   100.0
% of sectoral             14.3   17.4       14.9      6.6        12.1        9.1    12.8
Employment ('000)           5,094    818      n.a.       131      1,893        181   8,116
% of provincial           62.7   10.1         -       1.6        23.3        2.3   100.0
% of sectoral             17.5   28.9         -      13.8       27.9        11.4    19.7
West Sumatra
Output (Rp billion)            34       6         2        4         21         14       79
% of provincial           43.0    7.6        2.5      5.0       26.6        17.8   100.0
% of sectoral              2.0    1.5         1.7     2.4         2.0        2.3      2.1
Employment ('000)             626      41     n.a.        20        184         36      907
% of provincial           69.0    4.5         -       2.2       20.3         4.0   100.0
% of sectoral               2.1    1.4         -      2.1         2.7        2.2      2.2
Total /c
% of sectoral output         35.9   43.3         -      27.8       28.0       23.4    32.2
% of sectoral employment  41.9   49.4            -      35.6       62.2       37.9    45.5
la  Output/employment as a percent of total provincial output/employment.
/b  Output/employment as a percent of total sectoral (all Indonesia) output/employment.
C Total of all three provinces.
Sources: Central Bureau of Statistics: (1) Population Census, 1971; (2) National
Income Accounts, 1971; (3) Regional Income
Accounts, 1971.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Industrial SSEs in Project Provinces, 1974 /a
Textiles Leather
Food, beverages    and         and      Wood and      Other
and tobacco    apparel   products  products  industries  Total
Indonesia
No.                   24,289         5,274        518       6,327      11,813    48,221
% of total              50.4          10.8        1.1        13.2        24.5      100.0
East Java
No.                    6,577           518        105       1,162       3,060    11,422
% of provincial /b    57.6             4.5        1.0        10.2        26.7      100.0
% of subsectoral /c   27.1             9.8       20.3        18.4        25.9       23.6
Central Java
No.                    4,106         2,604         73         954       1,477      9,214
% of provincial         44.6          28.3        0.8        10.3        16.0      100.0
% of subsectoral        16.9          49.4       14.1        15.1        12.5       19.1
West Sumatra
No.                      841           107          7          82         183      1,220
% of provincial         68.9           8.8        0.6         6.7        15.0      100.0
% of subsectoral         3.5           2.0        1.3         1.3         1.5        2.5
Total /d
% of subsectoral   47.5            61.2      35.7        34.8         39.9      45.2
/a  This information is based on the new definition of industrial SSEs (5-19
employees with and without power), and so excludes most cottage
industries.   Because of using a different criterion for defining SSEs, the
information in this table is different from that in tables 3, 5 and 6,
which are based on the earlier definition.
/b  Number of establishments as a percent of total establishments in the province.
/c  Number of establishments in the industrial SSE subsector as a percent of
total establishments (all Indonesia) in the subsector.
/d  Total of all three provinces.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page I
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nonfinancial Programs of Assistance to Small-Scale Enterprises (SSEs)
Agricultural Extension
1.        Extension services are organized by the five Directorates General
of the Ministry of Agriculture - Food Crops, Estate Crops, Animal Husbandry,
Fisheries, and Forestry. The Directorate General for Food Crops has the
largest number of extension workers; in 1976 the staff of this Directorate
included nearly 240 subject matter specialists (PPSs), 50 middle-level
extension workers (PPMs) and almost 4,200 field extension workers (PPLs).
The extension services have been expanding gradually both in scope and
coverage, increasing the provision of production services to farmers relative
to the time spent on traditional activities such as data collection, regula-
tion and administration. Still, until recently, their services to farmers
were limited mainly to operating small demonstration farms, providing some
farmer training, primarily through short courses at the rural extension
centers, and advising participants in the BIMAS program for rice.
2.        Recognizing the importance of extension services for increasing
productivity, and the considerable scope for improving these services, Govern-
ment is implementing several projects to increase and strengthen staff
training and education, production-oriented agricultural research, and
advisory service to farmers. Government, with IDA assistance (Second Educa-
tion Project - Credit 288), established an Agricultural Training Institute
and 13 agricultural in-service training centers to provide training to the
subject matter specialists (PPSs) and middle-level extension workers (PPMs).
The Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179) provides for the
establishment of research programs for the major crops, and information
centers to assemble and distribute, in a form suitable for extension use,
the latest research information. The National Food Crops Extension Project
(Loan 1267) includes substantial expansion of the food crops extension staff,
introduction of a sound extension methodology with emphasis on regular farm
visits and continuous training for extension workers, and construction and
renovation of 529 Rural Extension Centers from which all field level extension
service would emanate.
3.        Generally there is integration between the financial and nonfinan-
cial programs for agriculture, under both BIMAS and KIK/KMKP, where a sub-
stantial portion of agricultural credit is provided on a category ("massal")
basis, for programs developed jointly by BRI and the Directorates General
concerned.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Guidance and Development of Small-Scale Industries (BIPIK)
4.        The major program of technical assistance to industrial SSEs is BIPIK,
literally translated "Guidance and Development of Small-Scale Industries."
The program was launched in 1974 by the Department of Industry, following
several years of preparation and planning with assistance from UNIDO advisers.
The program aims to establish an effective extension service, and training
centers /I to assist SSEs by providing: a) education and training of groups
of entrepreneurs in product development, technology, management and marketing;
b) guidance in determining needs and sources of raw materials, machinery and
spare parts, product design and quality control; c) technical and managerial
assistance covering use of appropriate technology, maintenance of equipment
and proper business management; and d) marketing assistance consisting of product
promotion, advice on market outlets, credit facilities, subcontracting, and
market surveys.   Besides providing assistance to individual SSEs on a limited
scale, BIPIK focuses on development of integrated industry programs and pre-
paration of industry profiles /2 for subsectors with high potential, in cooper-
ation with financial institutions, other Government agencies, universities
and research institutions. BIPIK covers a wide range of products and extends
a variety of assistance to SSEs. It tries to assist SSEs engaged in the
production and/or processing of food and agricultural products, estate crops,
livestock, textiles, apparel, building materials, wood, leather, metal, rubber,
and a variety of handicrafts.
5.        BIPIK is implemented by the four Directorates General of the
Department of Industry (Metals and Machinery, Light Industries and Handi-
crafts, Textile Industries, and Chemical Industries), coordinated by a
Project Manager under the Department's Secretary-General. The Department
maintains offices in each of the provinces and in 206 districts within the
provinces. Typically, the provincial headquarters has a staff of about 100,
of whom 40 are professionals; district-level staff number 5 to 20, of whom
about one-fifth are professionals. Policy and program directives are issued
by the Secretary General, under the signatures of the Directors General,
to the provincial and district offices. Actual implementation of BIPIK
/1  Two kinds of centers are planned:  service centers and extension centers.
The service centers will be specialized industry-specific centers to pro-
vide information and training on operation of equipment, processing of
raw materials, and other technical advice, and would be staffed with spe-
cialized instructors. The extension centers would be primarily for
training extension staff, and program development work.
/2 These profiles would describe the plant and equipment, raw materials,
processes, marketing prospects, and profitability of model investments.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
activities is carried out by provincial and district staff. who also perform
routine regulatory tasks, principally issuance of licenses and permits,
industrial surveys and data collection.
6.        BIPIK's major success was in its first year (1974/75), when instruc-
tors were trained, entrepreneurs were educated, surveys were carried out and
a promotional campaign was instituted.  Seminars lasting about two weeks
were held for Department staff, during which the objectives of BIPIK were
outlined, and lectures were given on entrepreneurship, business ethics,
regional planning, management consultancy, feasibility studies, financing,
quality control, etc.; in all about 350 district-level staff' participated.
Also, about 150 specialized instructors /1 (for ceramics, wood, textiles,
leather, and food and beverages) participated in seminars about BIPIK and
various aspects of business. About 15,000 entrepreneurs and workers partici-
pated in seminars, most of which were on basic principles of marketing,
finance, organization and technology, although some focused on specific
industries. The fact that these courses were mostly very general in nature
and did not specifically focus on the needs of SSEs probably contributed to
the sharp drop in the number of participants in 1975/76 (para. 7). As a
first step towards program development, BIPIK staff identified locations in
each province where clusters of industrial SSEs were located. Some funds
were also spent on distribution of free raw materials and tools to very small
entrepreneurs.
7.        Although plans for the last two years called for establishment of
service and extension centers and development of programs for a number of
subsectors, implementation was quite modest. Thus in 1975/76 only about 40%
of the Rp 1,7 billion (US$4.1 million) budget was utilized, compared to 90% of
Rp 1.1 billion (US$2.7 million) in 1974/75. While specialized courses were
given to about 150 instructors, only about 1,000 entrepreneurs participated in
seminars. The major achievements in 1975/76 were setting up a metal finishing
workshop and service center for foundries, carrying out surveys for establish-
ment of service centers for textiles, and developing programs of assistance for
the cashew nut industry in Riau and salt ponds in Java. During 1976/77, very
little further progress was made due largely to late approval of the budget
(in December 1976) and staff preoccupation with other activities.
I   These instructors are meant to conduct specialized seminars and
staff the service centers.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
8.        Over its first three years, BIPIK has undertaken only very limited
program development work, market surveys or preparation of industry profiles,
nor has it established an effective extension service or developed training
programs responsive to the needs of SSEs. The main reasons for BIPIK's
disappointing performance to date appear to be:
(a) BIPIK does not have a full-time staff of its own, and the
Department of Industry has insufficient field workers to
adequately undertake BIPIK activities;
(b)  the staff who do work on BIPIK are inadequately trained
for it, and continue to give major emphasis to regulatory
activities; additionally, as their wages are low, they
often seek outside jobs;
(c) BIPIK, in trying to become a nationwide program, has
spread its efforts too thinly and thus has had almost
negligible impact everywhere;
(d) BIPIK lacks a central management unit with effective
responsibility for program planning, coordination
and implementation; although the Project Manager is
theoretically responsible for BIPIK implementation,
in practice each Directorate General implements its
own BIPIK activities fairly autonomously; and
(e) until mid-1976, there was no formal mechanism for co-
operation among the banks and other government
agencies and BIPIK, although limited efforts had
been made at the local level.
9.        To improve coordination, Government formed a committee, in 1976,
headed by the Director General of Light Industries and Handicrafts, and includ-
ing representatives from Bank Indonesia and the Departments of Manpower, Finance
and Trade; the committee intends to take steps to coordinate the BIPIK activi-
ties of this Directorate General with the other agencies.  This committee's
impact has so far been limited. Furthermore, this committee does not cover all
of BIPIK's activities.
10.       BIPIK has quite ambitious plans for 1977/78, including establishment
of 17 service centers and two extension centers; a budget allocation of about
Rp 1.8 billion (US$4.3 million) is expected for the year. Implementation of
BIPIK in Central Java and East Java is expected to improve with the establish-
ment of extension service centers (one each in Yogyakarta and Surabaya in 1977).
UNIDO has been asked to finance experts in industrial engineering, industrial
design, marketing and finance, who have had extensive experience with SSEs,
for these centers. These experts would help train the nucleus of a full-time
BIPIK extension staff, identify and establish programs in cooperation with
other agencies, condtuct market surveys, and prepare industrial profiles.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
Government views this as a pilot scheme and, based on the experience of these
centers, plans to establish a nationwide network of such centers. These
efforts appear to be in the right direction, and with proper Government
support could form the nucleus of a responsive and effective machinery for
delivering assistance needed by industrial SSEs.
Other Programs of Assistance
11.       There are some other programs of assistance to SSEs run by various
agencies, tailored for specific groups of entrepreneurs, geographic locations,
or particular SSE problems. Their impact on a national scale has been
limited to date. One such program is the National Agency for Export Promotion,
affiliated with the Ministry of Trade. With assistance from the International
Labor Organization and UNIDO, the agency promotes exports of Indonesian
products through exhibits, overseas market fairs, sales promotions and mass
media. It also offers limited training in export promotion to prospective
exporters, and, to a much more limited extent, promotes and advises on domestic
marketing of local products.
12.       The Management Institute of the University of Indonesia in Jakarta,
in collaboration with universities around the country, has been conducting
courses and seminars for managers of small businesses and has been collecting
information on the SSE sector. The Development Technology Center of the
Institute of Technology, Bandung, has been working on appropriate technology
for use in rural areas, with technical assistance provided by the Government
of the Netherlands. The impact of these efforts has been quite limited so far,
as they generally need additional finance, adequately trained staff, and
Government support.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Indonesian Financial Sector
1.        Overview.  In terms of structure, diversity of institutions, finan-
cial services offered and the variety of financial instruments available
for mobilizing savings, the Indonesian financial system is still in its early
stages of development. The core of the system is a large commercial banking
sector dominated by five state banks and regulated by the central bank, Bank
Indonesia (BI). There are, in addition, a variety of specialized financial
institutions, e.g. term-financing institutions, merchant banks, and savings
institutions.- Overall, the financial system remains essentially geared to
short-term financing. This is the consequence of a regulatory environment
governing credit markets and interest rates which so far has not made it
profitable for private institutions to mobilize long-term funds to finance
long-term investments. Only Government institutions can do so, using the
special facilities provided to them by Bl.
Bank Indonesia
2.        BI is the successor to De Javasche Bank, which was established by the
Dutch in 1827. Bl's present existence is provided for by the Constitution of
1945, and its responsibilities and functions are prescribed in the Central Bank
Act of 1968. BI has a paid-in capital of Rp I billion, entirely held by Govern-
ment. As the central bank, BI is responsible for issuing currency, controlling
official foreign exchange reserves, and supervising and regulating all Indonesian
financial institutions (except insurance companies). It implements Government's
monetary policy through the regulation of credit in the economy, and in this
connection extends credits to the banking sector. It also advises Government in
fiscal and monetary affairs, and acts as its fiscal agent.
3.        BI operates under the supervision of the Monetary Council, a Govern-
ment advisory body in the monetary field, consisting of the Minister of Finance,
the Minister for Economic Affairs, and the Governor of BI. The Governor of
the Bank and its Managing Directors are appointed by the President for five-
year terms. BI is required to submit its annual and supplemental budgets to
Government for approval. The State Accountancy Directorate of the Ministry of
Finance periodically examines BI's records and audits its accounts.
4.        Bl's 7 Managing Directors report to the Governor and supervise
the work of the.bank's 15 departments (see Chart 17391 of this Annex for BI's
organization). Each Managing Director holds primary responsibility for one
department and secondary responsibility for another; these assignments are
rotated on a regular basis. Each department is headed by a General Manager, a
Deputy General Manager and the managers of its component divisions (charts
of Bl's Credit and Credit Supervision departments are shown in Annex 4). The



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
General Manager and his Deputy normally divide up supervisory responsibility
for the divisions.  This pattern of dual responsTiliity is to be found at all
levels of BI. BI has regional and branch offices throughou- indonesia; the
organizational structure at the regional offices closely follows that of the
head office (Annex 4, Chart 17390).
5.        As of December 31, 1976, BI's total outstanding credits (excluding
advances to the Government and credits provided to Pertamina to service its
external debt) amounted to Rp 914.3 billion (US$2.2 billion)> of which
Rp 640.4 billion or 70% represented credits to state banks. These banks use
BI's rediscount facilities to finance primarily their general credit operations,
as well as special credit programs such as those for fertilizer import and
distribution, and loans made to development projects undertaken by Government
agencies or Government-owned corporations. BI's summarized balance sheets as
of December 31, 1972-76, are presented in Table 1. On the assets side, the
items that have been growing most rapidly are credits to banks and foreign
exchange assets. Liabilities grew primarily as a result of the expansion of
currency in circulation and banks' current accounts.
6.        In addition to its central banking functions and in order to assist
the development of the financial sector, BI has participated on a joint
venture basis in the establishment of various financial institutions, includ-
ing two development finance companies (the Indonesian Development Finance
Corporation - IDFC, and the Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia -
PDFCI), a credit-insurance company for small business loans (ASKRINDO), a
venture-capital finance company (P.T. Bahana) and a bank in the Netherlands.
BI has also initiated with IFC and Canadian International Development Agency
assistance, a program to upgrade the operating procedures of the five state
commercial banks. Under this program, a team of Canadian experts (the Bank
Study Team) carried out an in-depth evaluation of the accounting and credit
procedures used by each bank. This has led to the establishment of detailed
step-by-step programs for reform, which are now being implemented (para. 10).
Finally, BI provides extensive rediscount facilities to state and private-owned
Indonesian banks for lending under a series of Government-sponsored development
programs (see Table 2 for details).
State Commercial Banks
7.       Accounting for close to 80% of all credits outstanding as of
December 31, 1976,/i the five state commercial banks are the dominant
indonesian financial institutions. A comparison of their balance sheets
.Table 5) with that of the banking system as a whole (Table 3) further
u -erscores their importance.  Each of these banks emphasizes lending to
speclfic sectors of the economy: Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), to smallholder
agriculture and rural development; Bank Bumi Daya, to estate agriculture and
fores:ry; Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, to industry; Bank Dagang Negara, to
commerce and mining; and Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia, to activities related
to the production of export goods. This sectoral allocation, however, is not
_ Excluding BI credits to Pertamina and P.T. Krakatau Steel.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
binding, and much overlap, if not competition, takes place among the state
commercial banks. These banks concentrate on short-term credit; most of
their loans are for three to six months but can be renewed depending upon the
bank/borrower relationship. The main sources of funds for state commercial
banks are deposits (including deposits legally required from importers), and
credits from BI under refinancing facilities.
8.        Each state commercial bank is governed by a three-man Board of
Supervisors which meets occasionally on major matters, such as approving the
budget, and a Board of Directors composed of its senior management officials
(the President-Director and two to four other Directors). All members of the
Boards of Supervisors and Directors are appointed by Government. Organizational
arrangements vary from bank to bank, in part as a result of the size of their
respective branch networks. BRI and Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, with the
largest number of branches (265 and 184 respectively), have regional offices,
each of which coordinates and supervises the branches in one or more provinces.
Bank Dagang Negara (76 branches) normally has one branch which coordinates
the work of all the other branches in its province. In the case of Bank Bumi
Daya (70 branches) and Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia (42 branches), branches
are fully independent from one another, and report directly to the head
office. (Typical organization charts of both a state bank regional and
branch office are shown in Annex 4.)
9.        Consolidated balance sheets of foreign exchange banks,/l as of
December 31, 1972-76, are given in Table 4. Summarized balance sheets and
income statements of the five state commercial banks for the year 1975 are
presented in Tables 5 and 6; Tables 7 and 8 provide more detailed financial
statements for BRI, as of year-end 1972-76. From 1972 through 1976, total
assets, privately held deposits, and outstanding credits of state commercial
banks all increased at average annual rates of 40-50%. This period of rapid
growth has accentuated the state banks' reliance on BI credits; it has also
exacerbated a number of long-standing problems. Administrative weaknesses
coupled with inadequate BI control and, in certain cases, poor management have
left these banks with a legacy of bad debts. Another disturbing element is
that the increase in these banks' liabilities has not, in most cases, been
matched by a proportionate increase in their net worth. As a result, the
inadequacy of their capital structure has become more pronounced, notably in
view of the arrears situation. In addition, and despite the growth in lending,
the profitability of the state commercial banks has remained unchanged, at low
levels. This has left them tightly strapped with no margin to build-up suitable
provisions for doubtful accounts.
/1 These banks comprise the five state commercial banks plus six of the
larger private commercial banks, which are allowed to deal in foreign
exchange.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.        Confronted with these developments, Government and BI have, inter
alia, asked state banks to exercise tighter control over their operations and
improve their loan collection performance. Concomitantly, BI is pressing
ahead with the implementation of the recommendations made by the Bank Study
Team which reviewed the operational and accounting procedures of the state
commercial banks (para. 6). Each bank has been asked to prepare (and is
currently preparing) a set of credit procedure manuals which, once approved
by BI, will be put into use throughout the organization, thus ensuring
greater consistency of approach in credit evaluation and administration. In
parallel with this activity, the state banks are having selected members of
their staff trained with private commercial banks in Canada. The next phase
of BI's program calls for strengthening the state banks' internal audit
procedures and informatior reporting systems; it is due to start by year-end
1977. In general, Government has made it clear that it is committed to
improving the performance of the state banks; progress in this area, while
necessarily slow, is expected to result in adequate improvements in the
coming years.
Development Banks
11.      There are 29 development banks in Indonesia which specialize in
term-finance, consisting of the state-owned Development Bank of Indonesia
(BAPINDO), which is by far the largest, 26 regional development banks wholly
or partially owned by provincial governments, and two joint venture banks,
the Indonesian Development Finance Corporation (IDFC) and the Private
Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI).
12.        Established in 1960, BAPINDO was reorganized and financially
restructured in 1969 upon advice from the Bank Group, with the objective of
its becoming the predominant source of medium- and long-term finance for the
larger Indonesian enterprises. BAPINDO received a US$10.0 million IDA credit
in 1972 and a US$50.0 million Bank loan in 1974; a second Bank loan of
US$40.0 million was approved on May 31, 1977. BAPINDO finances primarily
large- and medium-scale projects in both the public and private sectors.
Since 1973, BAPINDO has also been engaged in small enterprises financing in
collaboration with selected regional development banks. (For a review of
BAPINDO's recent performance and present condition, see appraisal report
No. 1497-IND, dated May 9, 1977.)
13.        The regional development banks or Bank Pembangunan Daerahs serve a
dual purpose: (i) they provide short- and medium-term credits as well as
equity finance, where appropriate, to projects expected to contribute to the
economic development of their provinces; and (ii) they act as fiscal agents
for the provincial governments. Due to a lack of term funds of their own,



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
and to a shortage of staff with the necessary skills, they have been primarily
engaged in short-term financing operations until recently. Under cofinancing
arrangements with BAPINDO, some of these banks have now begun term lending,
under the KIK/KMKP program. They also receive technical assistance from
BAPINDO in the form of organizational upgrading programs and staff training.
As of December 31, 1976, 15 regional development banks (out of 26) were
participating in the KIK/KMKP program. Cumulative approvals by these banks
amounted to Rp 6.8 billion (US$16.4 million) for about 3,600 projects under
both KIK and KMKP, for an average subloan size of around Rp 1.9 million
(US$4,500).
14.       IDFC was reorganized in 1972 as a joint venture between the Government
(through BI) and the Netherlands Overseas Finance Corporation, in which the
Dutch Government has a majority interest. IDFC extends term loans, participates
in equity financing and provides a limited amount of technical assistance to
its clients. So far, it has disbursed about US$12 million for 27 projects in
such sectors as food processing, textiles, printing, tourism, shipping and
farming. Because of its limited financial resources, as well as on grounds of
corporate policy, IDFC concentrates on financing medium-scale projects; the
average size of its loans to date is Rp 165 million (US$400,000). More
recently, IDFC started a special program for lending to projects with a
total cost of Rp 15-100 million, thus filling an important gap in existing
sources of term-finance for SSEs.
15.       In 1973, the Government and the Bank Group cooperated in setting
up PDFCI, in which IFC organized the participation of eight foreign banks,
for 32% of the share capital, itself taking 8%. IDA provided a credit of
US$10.0 million to PDFCI at the time of its establishment. PDFCI is empowered
to make medium- and long-term loans, invest in equity, provide guarantees,
underwrite corporate equity and debt securities and provide technical,
financial and managerial consultancy services. One of its objectives is the
identification of new projects and the promotion of new enterprises. From
1974, when it started operations, to June 30, 1976, PDFCI approved a total
financing of around US$12.0 million, of which US$800,000 represented equity
investments, for 12 industrial projects. Average loan size was therefore
about US$930,000. The Bank has recently extended to PDFCI a second loan of
US$15.0 million. (See appraisal report No. 1293-IND, dated January 7, 1977.)
Other Institutions
16.       In addition to the state banks and development banks, the Indonesian
financial sector includes 92 private Indonesian-owned commercial banks, 11
branches of foreign banks, one Government-owned and seven private savings banks,
11 merchant banks, around 5,000 small village and rural banks, and a dormant
Stock Exchange. The private commercial banks, while accounting only for about
9% of outstanding bank credits at year-end 1976, are a useful alternative source
of working capital finance for Indonesian enterprises. These banks, however, do
not have access to deposit subsidies or rediscount facilities, and must obtain
BI approval before lending for a term exceeding one year. The 11 existing
merchant banks all received their operating licenses between 1972 and 1974,
following the passage of a law governing the establishment and operations of



- 56 -
ANNEX i
Page 6
non-bank financial intermediaries. Eight are joint ventures between foreign
and local banks; the remaining three are owned by Indonesian shareholders
only. The objective of their establishment was to promote the development of
a money and capital market in Indonesia. These banks are not authorized to
accept demand and time deposits nor make direct loans. However, they are
allowed to issue and deal in commercial paper and long-term securities and
to make equity investments. Their operations and revenues so far have been
heavily based on money market activity rather than on the development of the
securities market or the provision of corporate merchant banking services.
Total assets of the investment houses amounted to about Rp 89 billion (US$214 mil-
lion) at the end of 1976, with paid-in capital stock of over Rp 12 billion
(US$29 million). Asset growth, over the last two years, has been around 30%
p.a., mainly because of the increase in money market operations. Whether the
future growth of these institutions will more closely conform to the intentions
that guided their establishment, will largely depend on the changes that will
be made in the existing set of financial policies.
17.       Among non-bank institutions, two are more particularly related to
SSE financing: P.T. Bahana, a venture-capital finance company, and P.T.
Asuransi Kredit Indonesia (ASKRINDO), a credit-insurance company for small
business loans. P. T. Bahana was established by the Government in 1973,
primarily to provide equity financing (up to 12.5% of the share capital of its
clients) and technical assistance to financially weak enterprises; it also
engages in lending operations to a limited extent. P. T. Bahana's operations
have focused on small- and medium-size enterprises though there are actually
no size limitations to its lending. Like most new institutions in Indonesia,
P.T. Bahana has found it difficult to attract experienced personnel, especially
in the field of management assistance to SSEs; its lending and equity financing
activities have therefore been limited.
18.       ASKRINDO was set up in 1971, as a limited liability company with
the Government and Bank Indonesia as its shareholders. Its purpose is to
insure state banks, private banks and development banks against the risk of
financial loss under approved credit programs. For loans to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs), ASKRINDO provides an automatic coverage for up to 75% of
the total risk to qualifying banks. Larger loans are insured on a case by
case basis. ASKRINDO also provides reinsurance for general insurers, which
it hopes will produce sufficient revenue to compensate for its expected
losses on SSE loan-insurance activities. ASKRINDO is discussed in greater
detail in Annex 5.
Interest Rates
19.       Interest rates applied by the state banks are set by BI. Because of
the importance of the state banks in the financial system, they in turn deter-
mine the general level of interest rates in the economy, though private banks
are free to set their own rates. Lending rates applied by state banks range
from 10.5% for KIK loans and KIB loans below Rp 75 million, to 12% for short-
term agricultural credit programs (BIMAS, INMAS), KMKP and medium-sized invest-
ment loans, to 13.5% for term loans above Rp 200 million, to 21% for short-term



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
nonprogram loans (Table 2). Lending rates charged by private banks are higher
and, if loans are financed from foreign exchange sources, they usually carry a
floating rate plus a fixed margin, with the exchange risk being assumed by the
borrower. Deposit rates were reduced by the Government in January 1977 and
again in January 1978, and now range from 6% to 15% p.a., depending on the
duration. The Government continues to keep the interest rate structure under
review.
20.       Compared with deposit rates, particularly those for 24-month time
deposits with state banks, term lending rates in Indonesia are somewhat low.
This interest rate structure reduces the profitability of the state banks,
although the following mitigates the effect: (i) state banks receive direct
interest rate subsidies from BI for time deposits which bring their maximum
cost down to 10.5%, and (ii) a substantial portion of their lending is
refinanced by BI at low rates (4% p.a. to 8% p.a.). This rate structure
affects the private domestic banks more seriously, impairing their ability to
compete with state banks for term deposits, since they are not eligible for
interest rate subsidies or low interest rediscounting from BI.
21.       The convertibility of the rupiah also exerts some influence on the
domestic interest rate structure. Bank lending rates have remained rela-
tively low in part because of the proximity of the Singapore and Hong Kong
financial markets which are willing to lend, at least to the better established
companies, at rates about two or three percentage points above the Asian dollar
market rates. This in practice gave an interest rate which over the past few
years has been lower than the 15% rate applied until January 1978 by the state
banks on their large investment loans, even adjusting for the fact that the
exchange risk on these foreign loans was borne by the borrower. In general,
Indonesian companies have been willing to accept the foreign exchange risk
either because this was the only way to obtain funds directly, or because the
risk was perceived as minor in light of the rupiah's stability. In previous
borrowings from the World Bank for BAPINDO and PDFCI, Government has insisted
on assuming the foreign exchange risk on the grounds that the Indonesian
rupiah was a relatively stable currency and because most domestic enterprises
were not sophisticated enough to appreciate the complexities of exchange
rates. The free convertibility of the rupiah was also one of the reasons why
the Government did not raise term lending rates during the period of very high
inflation, since it was feared that this would hurt the smaller and financially
weaker enterprises (mainly indigenous) which are unable to obtain foreign
exchange loans on their own, while larger and stronger companies (usually
non-indigenous) would still be able to borrow from financial markets abroad.
The rate of inflation which stood at 40% in 1974, declined to 19% in 1975 and
around 15% in 1976. With the Government's policy of curbing the expansion of
total liquidity to about 20% in 1977/78, the inflation rate is estimated to
have further subsided to about 12% in 1977, and is projected to average around
10% over 1978-1980.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
Future Financial Sector Development
22.       Further development of Indonesia's financial sector may require
policy changes and a clearer delineation of institutional roles. The interest
rate structure has so far prevented the development of instruments and
institutions which attract savings of reasonable duration and channel them
into long-term productive investment. Needed investment has not necessarily
been foregone as a result, but this investment was probably financed with a
higher degree of risk and at a higher cost to the economy through the roll-
over of short-term funds and through suppliers' credits. The preemption by
state-owned financial institutions of a very large share of financial
resources has further constrained the ability of the private financial sector
to assist in meeting private investment needs. Called upon to embark on a
series of programs of financial assistance to various sectors of the economy,
the state banks have grown too rapidly, with consequent costs in efficiency
and internal control. The time is right for Government to undertake a
comprehensive review of its policies towards the financial sector. Changes
may be called for in the interest rate structure, money market regulations,
securities market development, credit allocation policy and the capital base,
organization and roles of the existing financial institutions, including the
state commercial banks.



- 59 -                                               ANNEX 3
Table I
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Indonesia: Summarized Balance Sheets, 1972-1976
(in Rp billion)
As of December 31                                         1972          1973           1974           1975           1976
ASSETS
Gold and foreign assets                                   264.6         360.1         618.6          290.5            654.8
Gold and foreign exchange                              (239.3)      (334.5)        (611.5)        (245.9)         (619.9)
Other foreign assets /a                                 (25.2)       (25.6)           (7.1)        (44.6)           (34.9)
Claims on the public sector
Central Government                                      173.3        186.6          182.6          434.4           312.6
Advances to Government                               (58.7)        (75.0)         (60.0)         (60.0)          (60.0)
DICS promissory notes /b                              (24.2)       (26.5)         (27.4)         (27.5)          (27.8)
Other claims                                         (90.4)        (85.1)         (95.2)        (346.9)         (224.8)
Official entities and public enterprises                110.8        147.5          226.7          905.0         1,235.0
Claims on official entities                          (92.6)       (129.8)        (209.2)        (143.0)         (167.1)
Claims on public enterprises                         (18.2)        (17.7)         (17.5)        (762.0)       (1,067.9)
Claims on private einterprises and individuals              6.8           8.9            8.6           13.8            21.4
Claim on deposit money banks                              149.4         193.8         294.1          565.3           640.4
Other assets                                               17.7          44.5           26.3           76.3           138.9
Total assets                                  722.5         941.4        1,356.9        2,285.3         3,003.1
LIABILITIES
Monetary liabilities                                      390.7         505.9          786.1       1,050.2         1,348.5
Currency in circulation                                (298.3)      (414.5)        (560.3)        (703.2)         (876.5)
Current accounts of banks                               (74.3)       (80.9)        (196.5)        (315.6)         (442.7)
Private sector demand deposits                          (18.1)       (10.5)         (29.3)         (31.4)          (29.3)
Foreign currency and other deposits                         4.4           2.7            2.0          23.1            34.1
Bankers' restricted foreign exchange deposits               5.0          41.9          75.2           70.2            48.7
Import deposits                                            50.8          76.0          63.5           45.6            96.0
Government                                               (5.5)       (15.2)          (7.0)         (26.6)          (45.1)
BULOG /c                                                (45.3)       (60.8)         (56.5)         (19.0)          (50.9)
Foreign liabilities                                        73.5          34.3            7.1          86.4           146.1
Foreign exchange liabilities                            (48.3)        (8.7)             ()         (41.8)         (111.3)
Other foreign liabilities                               (25.2)       (25.6)          (7.1)         (44.6)          (34.8)
Government deposits                                        83.8         107.9         210.8          657.8           841.1
Current account                                         (83.8)      (107.9)        (210.8)        (242.8)         (374.7)
Blocked account                                            (-)           (-)           (-)        (415.0)         (466.4)
Capital and reserves                                       67.8          92.6         151.5          143.8           196.3
Aid counterpart funds                                      59.5         54.2           72.5           /4.0           121.9
Government                                               (0.2)        (0.5)          (0.5)          (0.5)           (0.5)
BULOG /c                                                (28.8)       (13.5)         (24.4)         (18.6)          (57.6)
Other                                                   (30.5)       (40.2)         (47.6)         (54.9)          (63.8)
Other liabilities                                         -13.0         25.6          -11.8          134.2           170.4
Total liabilities                             722.5         941.4       1.356.9        2,285.3         3,003.1
/a Does not constitute a component of international reserves.
lb DICS: Debt Investment Conversion Scheme.
/c BULOG: Bureau of Logistics (Rice Procurement).
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 60-                                          ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rediscount, Lending Terms and Deposit Rates of BI and State Banks
(Annual rates in %)
Lending
Proportion        BI        rate to
of BI       rediscount    final
A.  CREDITS (by category and purpose)                                   financing         rate       borrower
(i) Short-Term Credits
Group I:         Working capital for BUUD/KUD for procure-
ment and distribution of rice and maize          100             3            9
Group II:   1.  BIMAS/INMAS rice & secondary crops                100             3            12
2.  BUUD/KUD/P.N. Garam for collection and
distribution of salt and working
capital-for P.N. Garam                          75             4           12
3.  Working capital for flour mills                   75             4            12
4.  Export and exporting producers                    75             4            12
5.  Production, import and distribution of
fertilizers                                     75             4           12
6.  Import and distribution of nonfood items
under foreign aid                               75             4           12
7.  Working capital for BUUD/KUD and
cooperatives for collection and distri-
bution of agricultural products, live-
stock and fish                                  75             4           12
8.  Working capital for smallholder agriculture
and cottage handicrafts                         75             4           12
9.  Working capital for livestock, poultry
and fisheries                                   75             4           12
Group III:  1.  Working capital for rice mills/hullers,
sugar, coconut oil, textiles, agricul-
tural equipment, paper, cement, public
transportation, printing and publishing,
and tourism                                     70             6           13.5
2.  Working capital for other production              70             6            13.5
3.  Import and distribution of controlled goods   70                 6            13.5
4.  Sugar stock financing                             70             6            13.5
5.  Domestic (including interinsular trade)           70             6            13.5
6.  Working capital for contractors for DIP/
INPRES projects financed out of regional
governments' budgets and for low cost
housing                                         70             6           13.5
Group IV:        Working capital for contractors for
projects other than those specified
in III.6                                          60             6           15
Group V:         Import and distribution of imported goods
not covered in II.5, II.6, and II1.3              40             6           18
Group VI:        All other short-term credits                      25              6           21



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 2
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rediscount, Lending Terms and Deposit Rates of BI and State Banks
(Annual rates in %)
Lending
Proportion        BI        rate to
of BI      rediscount    final
A.  CREDITS (by category and purpose)                                   financing         rate      borrower
(ii) Medium/Long-Term Credits
Fixed assets financing:
Up to Rp 75 million                            80              3           10.5
Rp 75 - 200 million                            75              4           12
Rp 200-500 million                             70              4           13.5
Above Rp 500 million                           65              4           13.5
Working capital financing:
Up to Rp 300 million                           70            4-6          12-18/a
Above Rp 300 million                           65             4-6         12-18/a
(iii) Credits to Small-Scale Enterprises
Fixed asset financing (KIK)                      80              3           10.5
Permanent working capital financing (KMKP)    75                 4           12
(iv) Foreign Aid Project Financing
Foreign currency portion                         100            4-6         12-15/b
Domestic currency portion                      90-100           4-6         12-15/b
B.  DEPOSITS                                                                           Deposit      Interest rate
rate   subsidy on deposits
Time deposits: 24 months
For the first Rp 2.5 million                                15             4.5
On balance exceeding Rp 2.5 million                          12            1.5
12 months                                                        9
6 months                                                        6
Demand deposits:  Up to Rp 50 million                                             3
More than Rp 50 million                                        4.5
Call money                                                                      5-7.5
Tabanas (National Development Savings Scheme)
For the first Rp 200,000 deposited                            15
On balance exceeding Rp 200,000                                6
Certificates of deposit:    1 month                                           3.0 - 7.5
3 months                                        3.0 - 9.5
6 months                                        4.25-10.5
9 months                                        4.75
12 months                                        5.25-12.0
/a Depending on the economic sector concerned.
/b 12% up to Rp 100 million; 15X above Rp 100 million.
Source: Bank Indonesia



- 62-
ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheets of Banks, /a 1972-1976
(in Rp billion)
As of December 31                           1972     1973       1974      1975       1976
ASSETS
Reserve assets                              98.0     116.6      249.6     380.0      535.8
Foreign assets                             156.6     216.0      299.5     197.3      286.2
Claims on the public sector                 66.6     102.4      205.6     543.9      709.2
Government                                (1.3)     (0.3)      (0.1)       (-)      (0.2)
Public enterprises                       (65.3)   (102.1)   (205.5)   (543.9)   (709.6)
Claims on the private sector               517.1     922.7   1,177.5   1,362.1   1,716.0
Other assets                               144.8     175.2      251.8     241.3      267.7
Total assets                    983.1   1,532.9   2,184.0   2,724.6   3,515.5
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                            184.8     283.5      414.0     593.3      792.6
Time and savings deposits                  166.3     234.9      395.2     596.1     848.9
Foreign currency deposits                   49.6      80.8      117.6     128.0     166.8
Foreign liabilities                        133.9     253.1     258.1      253.9     269.6
Government deposits                         24.2      39.5       45.9      83.9      94.0
Import deposits                             52.1     115.7     282.8       78.6      87.9
Borrowings from Bank Indonesia             156.6     203.6     306.0      548.4     659.1
Other liabilities                          163.2     229.3     223.6      190.9     287.6
Capital, reserves and retained earnings   52.4        92.5     140.8      251.5     309.0
Total liabilities               983.1   1.532.9   2,184.0   2,724.6   3,515.5
/a  Deposit money banks, i.e. commercial banks (domestic and foreign) and development
banks.
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheets of Foreign Exchange Banks, /a 1972-1976
(in Rp billion)
As of December 31                             1972      1973       1974       1975       1976
ASSETS
Reserve assets                                77.0       86.7      173.7      288.0     416.2
Cash                                       (18.6)    (27.0)    (30.3)    (46.1)    (51.9)
Due from Bank Indonesia                    (58.4)    (59.7)   (143.4)   (241.9)   (364.3)
Foreign assets                               115.0      149.6     248.1      142.3      213.6
Claims on the public sector                   52.3       87.2      163.8     496.3      650.5
Government                                  (1.3)        (-)        (-)        (-)     (0.2)
Public enterprises                         (51.0)    (87.2)   (163.8)   (496.3)   (650.3)
Claims on the private sector                405.0       752.4     961.2   1,098.6   1,365.9
Other assets                                  85.9      104.1      176.8     161.5      163.3
Total assets                      735.2   1,180.0   1,723.6   2,186.7   2,809.5
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                              137.3     206.6      299.2      435.0      585.7
Time and savings deposits                    132.3      187.2     335.1      522.9      759.4
Foreign currency deposits                     22.6      25.2       32.2       40.9       73.8
Foreign liabilities                          106.5     211.7      238.0      237.2      253.7
Government deposits                           24.2       39.5      45.9       83.9       93.9
Import deposits                              30.1       92.5      257.2       54.0       54.0
Borrowings from Bank Indonesia               124.9     180.1      264.7      510.7      620.6
Other liabilities                            137.0     186.3      185.4      140.5      180.1
Capital, reserves and retained earnings   20.3          50.9       65.9      161.6      188.3
Total liabilities                735.2   1,180.0   1,723.6   2,186.7   2,809.5
/a  The five state commercial banks plus six of the larger private commercial banks,
which are allowed to deal in foreign exchange.
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets of State Commercial Banks as of December 31, 1975
(in Rp billion)
Five banks
BRI     BBD      BDN     BEII    BNI 46    combined
Assets
Cash                                 14.5      8.9     4.7       1.9     13.9         43.9
Balance due from Bank Indonesia
and other banks                    73.7   105.2    35.4       29.3     66.3        309.9
Foreign exchange assets              12.7   145.5   220.4       24.5     45.5        448.6
Loans outstanding                   344.3   440.8   134.8    137.7    236.4        1,294.0
Securities                              -    33.2      0.9         -      0.6         34.7
Property and equipment Ia            10.1      7.0     1.6       2.6      5.1         26.4
Other assets                         18.1      0.2     4.6      21.6     22.3         66.8
Total assets                      473.4   740.8   402.4    217.6    390.1        2,224.3
Liabilities
Deposits
Demand deposits                     135.9   144.7    48.8       48.3    122.1        499.8
Time and savings deposits            62.5   200.9    82.7       63.2    139.9        549.2
Borrowings from Bank Indonesia        200.7   187.4    34.5       52.6      46.0       521.2
Foreign exchange liabilities            9.6   128.6   215.4       23.0      30.0       406.6
Other liabilities /b                   46.6    51.8       7.0     28.7      33.8       167.9
Equity
Capital                               0.3      0.3     0.2       0.2      0.5          1.5
Reserves and retained earnings /c  17.8    27.1    13.8          1.6     17.8         78.1
Total liabilities and equity    473.4   740.8   402.4    217.6    390.1          2,224.3
Contingent liabilities on
guarantees                           (6.8)  (41.0)  (22.5)   (12.5)   (40.9)        (123.7)
,a  Before accumulated depreciation.
/b Includes accumulated depreciation.
_c Includes provisions for doubtful accounts.
Source: State Commercial Banks.



- 65 _
ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Income Statements of State Commercial Banks for 1975
(in Rp billion)
BRI     BBD      BDN      BEII     BNI 46
Income
Interest income                      38.1    60.6    29.9       n.a.        40.6
Commissions                            3.3     4.7      4.5     n.a.        10.5
Other income                           8.1    11.1      0.7     n.a.        18.4
Total income                       49.5    76.4    35.1       n.a.        69.5
Expenses
Interest expenses                    22.6    48.0    24.7       n.a.        32.6
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                           10.5      8.6      5.1     n.a.        11.8
Other administrative expenses          5.8     4.3      2.4     n.a.         5.9
Depreciation and amortization          1.5     1.1      0.3     n.a.         0.9
Provision for doubtful accounts       5.1      2.2      1.9     n.a.         3.0
Other expenses                         0.7    10.2        -     n.a.         6.7
Total expenses                     46.2    74.4    34.4       n.a.        60.9
Net income before taxes                  3.3     2.0      0.7      n.a.         8.6
Source: State Commercial Banks



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summarized Balance Sheets,
1972-1975 (audited) and 1976 (unaudited)
(in Rp billion)
As of December 31                               1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
ASSETS
Cash                                             5.1      7.8    10.6    14.5    17.2
Balance due from banks
Bank Indonesia                               12.1    12.3    38.8    66.5    77.1
Other banks                                   0.3      3.6      0.2      7.2    15.8
Notes receivable                                  -        -      0.1       1.1     3.7
Foreign exchange receivables                    12.3    22.3   122.2    12.7    21.0
Loans outstanding                               73.2   139.4   233.8   344.3   426.3
Less:  provision for doubtful accounts   (1.4)   (2.7)   (4.2)   (8.2)  (10.5)
Property and equipment                           5.3      6.8     8.2    10.1    13.8
Less:  accumulated depreciation               (1.0)   (1.6)   (3.5)   (5.0)   (6.4)
Other assets                                     2.7      1.6    29.8    17.0    17.4
Total assets                       108.6   189.5   436.0   460.2   575.4
LIABILITIES
Deposits
Demand deposits                              38.5    55.0    72.3   135.9   147.1
Time deposits                                14.9    17.5    27.9    46.5    70.6
Savings deposits                              4.5      6.7    10.2    16.0    25.1
Borrowings from banks
Bank Indonesia                               32.5    59.1   121.9   200.7   271.4
Other banks                                   0.4      1.1      0.4      0.4      1.1
Foreign exchange liabilities                     7.5    28.9   165.3       9.6      7.4
Other liabilities                                7.1    16.6    24.5    17.6    18.9
Subtotal                           105.4   184.9   422.5   426.7   541.6
Equity
Government participation                       -        -       4.7    23.6    27.6
Capital                                        -        -        -       0.3      0.3
Reserves                                      1.4      2.4      2.1      4.4      5.9
Retained earnings                             1.8      2.2      6.7      5.2      0.0
Subtotal                             3.2      4.6    13.5    33.5    33.8
Total liabilities & equity         108.6   189.5   436.0   460.2   575.4
Debt/equity ratio                               32.9    40.2    31.3    12.7    16.0
Source: BRI.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summarized Income Statements,
1972-1975 (audited) and 1976 (unaudited)
(in Rp billion)
1972     1973      197-      975      1976
INCOME
Interest on loans                               11.1      12.8     23.5      32.2      46.3
Commissions                                      0.7       1.2       1.9      3.3       2.4
Income on foreign exchange transactions          0.4       0.9      2.4       4.9       0.5
Other income                                     1.5       1.4       2.4       8.1      5.9
Total income                           13.7      16.3      30.2      49.5     __._
EXPENSES
Interest on deposits                             4.7       4.4      6.2      13.tU       s4
Interest on borrowings from banks (BI)           1.6       1.4      3.7                12.0
Salaries and other personnel expenses            3.8       5.1      6.9      10.       12.6
Other administrative expenses                    1.8       2.1      3.7       5.8       6.5
Depreciation and amortization                    0.4       0.6      2.1       1.5       1.6
Provision for doubtful accounts                  0.3       1.3       1.6      5.1       2.5
Other expenses                                   0.1       0.0      0.3       0.7       1.1
Total expenses                         12.7      14.9      24.7     46.2      55_7
Net income before taxes                            1.0       1.4       5.5      3.3       0.
Provisions for taxes (45%)                         0.4       0.6      2.5       1.5       0.2
Net income after taxes                             0.6       0.8      3.0       1.8       0.2
Source: BRI.



I
I



INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
MONETARY
BOARD
MANAGING DIRFECTORS]
ECONOMICSREDITCREDIT                          BANK              MONEY            ACUTN                              UI
STATISTICS  CREDIT       SUPERVISION      SUPERVISION       MARKET           DEACCOUNTIN      DPERSO ENNE      DEAUDTMN
DEPARTMENT      DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT        DEPARTMENT        DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT      DEPARTMENT
BUDGET          FOREIGN          FOEG                                   RNYLGSISSCEAILEGAL
DEPARTMENT      DEPARTMENT       EXCHANGE                            ISSUE            LOGISTICST      OF THE            DPRMN
DEPARTMENT                         DEPARTMENT       DPRMET           BOARDDEATEN
BRANCH  FFII CE
IN
PROVINCES
World Bank-17391



I
I



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The KIK/KMKP Program
Background
1.        The difficulty of obtaining adequate term-finance on terms which are
appropriate for this kind of activity has been one of the main constraints
affecting the development of Indonesian small-scale enterprises (SSEs). Prior
to 1969, medium- and long-term institutional credit was in very short supply.
To remedy this situation, the Government introduced, in April 1969, the
General Investment Credit (KIB) program. Administered by Bank Indonesia (BI)
and operated by all state commercial banks, BAPINDO, and selected regional
development banks, KIB makes available term loans of up to five years' maturity
to finance fixed assets and working capital, at varying rates of 10.5-13.5%
p.a. and 12-18% p.a., respectively. Enterprises in virtually all sectors of
the economy are eligible for financing. Borrowers' own equity contributions
must equal at least 25% of project cost.
2.        Since program inception, most of KIB lending has gone to medium-
and large-scale manufacturing and hotel projects in urban areas. As a first
attempt to shift the balance more toward small indigenous enterprises, the
self-financing requirement for large and nonpriority projects was raised,
and a graduated refinancing mechanism introduced whereby the percentage of
the loan amount rediscounted by BI (at 4% p.a.) decreased as the loan size
increased. These measures did not prove sufficient to give SSEs much greater
access to KIB, given the general reluctance of the state banks to accept the
greater risks and higher administrative costs of SSE lending. In addition,
the SSEs were often unable to meet standard collateral requirements, could
not supply adequate operational and financial data to the banks, and did not
offer the banks much prospect of additional income from ancillary banking
services (such as foreign exchange and current account transactions). In
April 1973, Government announced that 65% of future KIB lending would be
reserved for loans below Rp 5 million. Still, SSE participation remained
low, largely because most could not meet the 25% equity-contribution require-
ment. So, in December 1973, two programs of financial assistance specifically
designed for SSEs were instituted: the Kredit Investasi Kecil (KIK) for the
financing of fixed investment, and the Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (KMKP) for
permanent working capital.
Main Features of the KIK/KMKP Credit Program
3.        The main objective of both the KIK and KMKP programs, as stated in
the BI circulars establishing them,/1 is to provide needed term-financing to
/1 BI Circular No. SE 6/37/UPK for KIK, and No. SE 6/38/UPK for KMKP.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
indigenous SSEs with limited means engaged in labor-intensive activities. For
this purpose, fairly lenient qualifying conditions have been prescribed, and
simple credit procedures devised. All productive activities in industry,
agriculture, trade and services were declared eligible for financing, except
certain professional services, the entertainment business, and industries that
may from time to time be declared "satiated." No minimum equity contribution
is required from the borrowers; such a contribution is to be set on an indivi-
dual basis, according to the borrower's self-financing ability.
4.        Size eligibility criteria have been established to ensure that
only the smallest Indonesian entrepreneurs are entitled to KIK/KMKP. The net
worth of borrowers is not to exceed Rp 20 million (US$48,000) and their net
current assets, Rp 10 million (US$24,000). These criteria being somewhat
impractical to use, size eligibility is actually controlled primarily by the
maximum amount of credit available: Rp 5 million (US$12,000) for fixed
assets (KIK) and an additional Rp 5 million for working capital (KMKP). An
enterprise may borrow under KIK/ KMKP provided its total outstanding liabil-
ities to banks (including any proposed KIK/KMKP loans) amount to no more than
Rp 10 million. In February 1977, BI raised the individual loan ceilings to
Rp 10 million (US$24,000) for both KIK and KMKP, but only for expansions of
projects previously financed under KIK/KMKP and for which debt servicing has
been satisfactory.
5.        Implementation of the program has been assigned to the five state-
owned commercial banks, BAPINDO, selected regional development banks and, more
recently, certain private Indonesian commercial banks. The latter two cate-
gories of banks participate in the program under co-financing arrangements
with BAPINDO and the state commercial banks, respectively. Overall, some 600
branches of various financial institutions throughout Indonesia are presently
lending under KIK/KMKP. Over 40% of these branches and 50% of the lending are
from Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). To make best use of each handling bank's
specific expertise, BI has allocated responsibility for KIK/KMKP lending among
them by subsector, as follows:
(i) Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries
and forestry;
(ii) Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia: Export-related production, trade, and
services; domestic distribution outside of market places; warehousing;
(iii) Bank Negara Indonesia 1946: Manufacturing and related services;
construction and reconstruction;
(iv) Bank Bumi Daya: Agricultural estates; transportation, including
navigation; hotels;
(v) Bank Dagang Negara: Small merchants, including retailers in market
places; mining;
(vi) Regional Development Banks/BAPINDO: All sectors mentioned above.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
This sectoral allocation, however, is not to constrain lending. Should only
one bank be represented in a given area, this bank is entitled to grant KIK/KMKP
loans to any sector.
Terms and Conditions of Lending
6.        Terms and conditions of KIK/KMKP lending have been set by BI to make
the program financially attractive to the borrowers and acceptable to the
handling banks. KIK loans carry an interest rate of 10.5% p.a., with a maximum
maturity of five years including up to two years' grace. KMKP loans have an
interest rate of 12% p.a.; their maximum maturity is three years. In the
initial years of the program, both KIK and KMKP loans had amortization
schedules calling for equal repayments of principal, in addition to interest
payments, at regular intervals. Presently only KIK loans follow this practice;
KMKP loans are granted on an overdraft basis, i.e. as standby credit lines
which may be drawn down at any time provided the amount outstanding, including
accrued interest, does not exceed the maximum amount specified under the loan
agreement. Other terms and conditions applicable to KIK/KMKP borrowers are
presented in Table 1, Part A.
7.        BI rediscounts 80% of all KIK lending at 3% p.a., and 75% of KMKP
lending at 4% p.a., repayable according to the same amortization schedule
as the loans made to the subborrowers. Insurance against 75% of the credit
risk is provided by ASKRINDO for a one-time premium of 3% of the approved
loan amount, payable half by the handling bank and half by BI. BAPINDO and
the regional development banks (RDBs) have worked out their own arrangements
for sharing costs and income. The RDBs put up half the handling bank share
under KIK (i.e. 10% RDB, 10% BAPINDO), and get to keep half of the interest
paid by subborrowers (i.e. 5.25% p.a.). They put up one third of the KMKP
finance (i.e. RDB 8%, BAPINDO 17%), and get one-third of the interest (i.e.
4% p.a.). BAPINDO pays the entire handling bank share of the interest
payments to BI and the insurance premium (1.5%), while of the residual 25%
credit risk under both KIK and KMKP, 2.5% is borne by the RDBs and 22.5% by
BAPINDO. These financing arrangements are summarized in Table 1, Part B.
Organizational Arrangements
8.        Central administration of KIK/KMKP is carried out by four sections
of the Production Loan Division in BI's Credit Department (Chart 17388). These
four sections, with a staff of 26 professionals, (a) monitor credit ceilings
and handle transactions with ASKRINDO, (b) handle credits extended on a group
(or "massal") basis, (c) analyze data, and (d) examine handling banks' KIK/KMKP
rediscount applications for Jakarta province, respectively. Similar units in
BI's branches examine rediscount applications for their respective territories.
The procedure involves checking the purpose of the loan, verifying borrower
eligibility, and ensuring that the proposed borrower is not on a list of high
credit risks and has not obtained financing for the same project from other
institutions. On the whole, this verification is conducted satisfactorily,
with no undue delay.



- 71-
ANNEX 4
Page 4
9.        Program planning and evaluation are the responsibility of BI's
Credit Supervision Department (Chart 17389), whose Credit Planning Division
allocates annual KIK/KMKP lending ceilings to the various handling banks
(para. 12). The Credit Supervision Division compiles and summarizes inspection
reports prepared by retired civil servants (WREDATAMAs) who visit KIK/KMKP
projects on a sample basis. This second division also operates a credit-
information center for the banks. WREDATAMA reports were meant to provide BI
with a means of evaluating the performance and impact of KIK/KMKP lending,
thus allowing corrective measures to be taken on a timely basis, whenever
necessary. However, because these reports are not sufficiently analytical and
contain only limited information, BI has so far been unable to use them for
this purpose.
10.       BI's regional branches usually have one section which handles the
administration of the KIK/KMKP program (Chart 17390). The responsibilities of
this section are similar to those outlined in para. 8. The activities of
the credit supervision section, as they relate to KIK/KMKP, mainly consist of
overseeing the work performed by the WREDATAMAs and coordinating it with the
handling banks. In BI's larger branches, such as Semarang and Surabaya, a
coordinating section monitors activities of the different BI branches in the
region. These sections, newly established, are expected to play a central
role in coordinating at the regional level the assistance extended by various
agencies to support SSE development.
11.       The handling banks' organizational arrangements for KIK/KMKP vary,
mainly as a function of bank and branch size (Annex 3, para. 8). In the
typical pattern (Charts 17385 and 17386), a branch would have 1-2 officers
working full time on KIK/KMKP, and a regional office (for BRI and Bank Negara
Indonesia 1946), around 3-5. Most of the loan officers are high school
graduates and have received in-house and on-the-job training. Their training
has usually been at a general level and is not always well suited to their new
responsibilities for SSE term-financing.
Credit Ceiling Allocation
12.       The allocation of annual KIK/K2-KP lending ceilings to the various
handling banks forms part of the general ceiling (or "plafond") mechanism by
which BI regulates credit expansion in the economy. At the beginning of the
fiscal year (April 1 - March 31), an overall ceiling is assigned to each bank,
representing the maximum amount by which the bank's total outstanding portfolio
may increase during the year. Each bank then submits to BI, which has the
final say, its proposal for allocating this ceiling among its various lending
programs (e.g. commercial credit, KIB, KIK/KMKP, etc.). Once agreed upon,
the KIK/KMKP "plafond" is distributed by the handling bank to its regional
and/or branch offices on the basis of anticipated demand, loan processing
capacity, etc. If funds run out in a particular area, the handling bank
can readjust its regional ceilings. Because KIK/KMKP is a priority program,
BI has always set the ceilings high enough so as not to constrain KIK/KMKP
lending, and, in fact, views the "plafond" more as a target. The handling
banks, for their part, have sometimes felt that these ceilings were being set



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
by BI at a level high enough to induce them to increase KIK/KMKP lending.
If a bank does not utilize its full KIK/KMKP "plafond," the remainder is not
transferable to other lending programs; however, if a bank were in a position
to exceed its KIK/KMKP "plafond," BI would readily increase that ceiling.
Lending Approach
13.       KIK/KMKP lending takes place under two types of arrangements:
general ("umum") lending, under which all loans are made on a purely case-by-
case basis, and special ("khusus") or mass ("massal") lending, for which
separate credit programs are developed by type of activity or subsector before
credits are made on either an individual or group basis. Under the "massal"
approach, the establishment of specific lending programs is the result of
collaborative efforts between the handling banks and Government technical
agencies. For example, in the case of agricultural programs handled by BRI
(such as fisheries, livestock, paddy development, etc.) identification and
program formulation are performed by the relevant Directorates General of
the Department of Agriculture. BRI reviews the proposal, suggests appropriate
financing arrangements within the standard KIK/KMKP terms, and forwards the
package to BI for final review and approval. The "massal" approach, while
not practicable in all cases, (a) allows extensive subsectoral analysis to
be done (markets, input supplies, choice of technology) prior to commencing
lending operations, (b) permits advisory and other supporting services to be
provided more efficiently to groups of borrowers, and (c) reduces the handling
banks' administrative costs. A list of KIK/KMKP "massal" programs that banks
were handling at year-end 1976, appears in Table 2.
Lending Procedures
14.       Given the small size of KIK/KMKP loans, financial institutions must
use simplified credit investigation procedures that rely as much on the
borrowers' character and collateral as on project viability. In this regard,
it appears that the handling banks have in general adopted a reasonable
approach to KIK/KMKP appraisals, given the level of education and training of
their loan officers, the absence of subsectoral analysis upon which to base
estimates of project viability, and the difficulties in obtaining accurate
information on clients' operations. A standard application form is used
which provides information on the entrepreneur, the firm and the proposed
project; this is supplemented by a field check conducted by the loan officer.
Evaluation reports are more often descriptive than analytic, and generally do
not mention potential problems a project may face.
15.       The actual steps which a loan application typically goes through to
be approved are depicted in Charts 17383 and 17384./i On average, handling
banks require about three to four weeks, depending upon their degree of decen-
tralization, to approve a KIK loan, and BI, a further two to three days, to
authorize rediscounting. Disbursement of funds usually takes place very soon
/1 These charts reflect the observations of the Bank Study Team regarding
the KIK operations of BRI (Annex 3, para. 6 and 10).



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
afterwards. However, delays sometimes occur in the processing of individual
loan applications by handling banks, mainly because of insufficient delegation
of authority and shortage of suitably qualified loan officers. The commitment
authority of branch managers generally ranges from Rp 2 million to Rp 5 million
per loan. Many of the state banks' branches are inadequately staffed, with
small loan examiners having at times to supervise portfolios of more than 200
loans. As a general guideline, a loan examiner can process satisfactorily
about 30-40 KIK loan applications per year (on a loan-by-loan basis; more, of
course, on a "massal" basis), while supervising some 60 loans at any given
time.
16.       A major shortcoming in the handling banks' present KIK/KMKP opera-
tions is inadequate supervision. While practices vary from bank to bank,
and even from branch to branch, loan officers seldom keep track of their SSE
clients on a systematic basis; most often they only start to look into client
performance when arrears develop. Handling banks admit that follow-up is weak,
arguing that the administrative costs involved are too high and that they do
not have sufficient staff to perform this activity properly. However, they are
beginning to recognize the importance of supervision in reducing default rates,
developing closer relationships with SSE clients and providing their loan
officers with first-hand experience of problems most commonly associated with
SSE term lending. Some handling banks have begun improving the supervision of
their KIK/KMKP accounts.
17.       Procurement procedures also require tightening up by the handling
banks. At present, these banks do not normally investigate their clients'
practices, nor do they assist them in such matters. To correct this situation,
BI has asked the handling banks to obtain from their borrowers three price
quotations from suppliers/contractors, whenever practicable. Handling banks
should also establish guidelines on costs of items most commonly purchased
under KIK/KMKP, for both their clients' and their own use. To further
strengthen the banks' capability in this field, BI, particularly when developing
lending programs, should commission the services of technical institutions or
agencies to evaluate SSEs' procurement sources and advise more systematically
on (a) the choice of technology and (b) the adequacy of equipment selected.
18.       While some banks employ appropriate checks on disbursements, the
practices of others are less satisfactory. Loans are most often released to
the borrower in one single payment, without the loan officer checking in every
case that proceeds are being used for approved purposes. Handling banks have
been recently instructed to adopt standardized KIK/KMKP disbursement procedures,
established by BI, that call for (a) payments to be made directly to the
supplier/contractor on the basis of proforma invoices, and (b) disbursements
in tranches, according to progress of work done, and following physical
inspection of the project site, whenever practicable.
Lending Operations To Date
19.       During the first six months of 1974, lending under KIK/KMKP got
off to a rapid start, but fell off sharply later in the year as handling banks



- 74-
ANNEX 4
Page 7
tightened up their lending procedures. Lending picked up in early 1975, and
has been increasing fairly rapidly since then, as shown below:
KIK/KMKP QUARTERLY LOAN APPROVALS, 1974-76
(Rp billion; current prices)
Year              1974                     1975                       1976
Quarter   I      II   III    IV    I      II   III    IV       E     II   III    IV
KIK      5.2   6.4   1.8   1.9   3.4   2.9   2.5   3.9    6.0   4.6   4.9   5.5
KMIKP    4.7   6.4   2.0   2.5   3.3   3.8   5.5   5.5    7.7   5.9   6.6   6.7
Total    9.9  12.8   3.8   4.4   6.7   6.7   8.0   9.4   13.7  10.5  11.5  12.2
Source:  Bank Indonesia.
Leaving aside the two first quarters of 1974, KIK/KMKP lending has been
growing in real terms-at an average annual rate of 30% up to year-end 1976.
On a cumulative basis, some 58,000 loans totalling Rp 96 billion (US$230 mil-
lion) had been approved under KIK/KMKP as of December 31, 1976. Of this
total, Rp 45.8 billion, or 48%, represented KIK loans (of which there were
23,800) and Rp 49.7 billion, or 52%, KMKP loans (numbering 34,000) (Tables 3
and 4).
Characteristics of Approved Loans
20.       Sectoral Distribution.  The overall sectoral distribution of KIK/KMKP
lending over the period 1974-76 is shown in Table 6. As of June 30, 1976, the
trade sectors (wholesale, retail and hotels) accounted for 25% of KIK lending
and 52% of KMKP: industry, for 21% and 31%, respectively; agriculture (farming,
livestock and fisheries), for 22% and 12%; transport (primarily mini-buses and
pick-up trucks), for 28% and 2%; and other services, for 3% and 2%, respectively.
21.       Regional Distribution.  The data in Tables 7 and 9 indicate that the
objectives of dispersing investment away from Java and from the major urban
centers are being achieved. By year-end 1976, KIK lending to projects in
the outer islands represented 44% of total approvals (40% in the case of KMKP),
and thus exceeded the proportion of the total Indonesian population that these
islands accounted for (36%). About 65% of KIK/KMKP lending has gone to small
cities and rural areas; although lower than these areas' proportion of the
total population, this is nevertheless a high percentage for private sector
investment.
22.       Maturity and Grace Periods.  Average loan maturities for KNKP have
been about two and a half years, in line with the maximum term of three years
allowed by the program regulations (Table 10). KIK loans, on the other hand,
have had average maturities of around three years, well below the five-year
limit; this may not always have been sufficient to permit repayment without



- 75-
ANNEX 4
Page 8
difficulty. Grace periods for KIK /1 typically range from 3 to 12 months,
based on the project being financed, and appear generally suitable. No
cases of loan rescheduling have been observed so far, although BI allows
rescheduling provided the final maturity date remains within five years; a
somewhat more liberal policy may need to be adopted in cases where external
factors (e.g. price changes, drought, floods, etc.) make repayment within
five years impossible.
23.       Purpose of Financing.  Most KIK/KMKP lending has gone to established
entrepreneurs seeking to rehabilitate or expand their operations. Only 12%
of KIK and 3% of KMKP financing was directed to new projects (Table 10).
This may be explained by (a) the five-year maximum (and three-year average)
maturity of KIK loans, which is too short to permit the establishment of many
new businesses, (b) the fact that handling banks prefer the lower risk of
established clients and enterprises, and have been able to meet their lending
targets without financing new ventures, and (c) an early directive from BI,
which has since been relaxed, limiting KIK/KMKP loans for new enterprises.
24.       Loan Size.  For both KIK and KMKP, the majority of loans are at the
lower end of the size spectrum: 41% of KIK loans and 53.2% of KMKP loans are
for less than Rp 1 million, 21.5% and 26.5%, respectively, are for Rp 1-2 mil-
lion, and 17.5% and 10.5%, respectively, from Rp 2-3 million (Table 10).
However, loans in the Rp 4-5 million range are more common than those of
Rp 3-4 million (13.3% compared to 6.7% for KIK, 5.5% compared to 4.3% for
KMKP). This accumulation at the Rp 5 million level suggests the need to
review the appropriateness of this limit. The accumulation is, of course,
much more marked when the amount lent is examined: 33.7% of KIK lending
and 18.5% of KMKP lending are in the Rp 4-5 million range.
25.       Established in early 1974, the individual loan ceiling of Rp 5 mil-
lion was meant to ensure that funds would go to genuinely small enterprises.
Since then, there has been an increase in prices of about 80% in Indonesia.
As a result, the larger SSEs, which would normally be expected to exhibit
rapid growth, are gradually being excluded from KIK/KMKP. Yet they remain
unable to meet the 25% self-financing requirement for KIB loans, or even to
receive serious consideration under that program, which is limited primarily
to large loans. The change in KIK/KMKP loan ceilings decided by BI in
February 1977 is a move in the right direction (para. 4).
26.       Distribution by Handling Bank.  BRI has by far taken the largest
role in the KIK/KMKP program, accounting for 55% of total KIK loan approvals
(Table 11). Its predominance is understandable given that it has over 40% of
all the state bank branches (see Annex 3, para. 8, and Maps IBRD 12927 and
12884). Bank Bumi Daya ranks second with 15% of KIK lending; Bank Negara
Indonesia 1946, Bank Dagang Negara and Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia following
/1 For KMKP, given the use of the overdraft system, the notion of grace
period is not applicable.



-76-
ANNEX 4
Page 9
with 10%, 8% and 5%, respectively. BAPINDO and the regional development
banks accounted for 7% of KIK loan approvals. Bank Dagang Negara and Bank
Ekspor-Impor Indonesia were fairly large KIK lenders in 1974 with 14% and
7% respectively, but have each accounted for only about 4% since then.
27.       The breakdown of sectoral lending by bank is also shown in Table 11.
From the figures it appears that specialization by sector has not been
a constraint on KIK lending. BRI accounts for the great majority (86%) of
lending to agriculture, but its KIK approvals for this sector represent only
35% of its total lending under the program. Of BRI's KIK approvals, 25% have
gone to transportation; 20% to trade; 18% to industry; and 2% to other
sectors. The other handling banks show a greater degree of sectoral special-
ization. Bank Bumi Daya's KIK lending is concentrated in transportation
(58% of its cumulative approvals); Bank Dagang Negara's, in trade inside of
markets (69%); Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia's, in trade outside of markets
(40%); and Bank Negara Indonesia's, in industry (56%). KIK lending by
BAPINDO and the regional development banks is well diversified. In general,
sectoral breakdown of lending by bank follows the guidelines established by
BI (para. 5).
Repayment Performance
28.       Because of the newness of both the KIK/KMKP program and its
monitoring system, there is little information readily available on the
default rates of KIK/KMKP loans. However, based on the best available
evidence, it appears that the level of KIK /1 arrears has been increasing,
from 5.8% of the outstanding portfolio at year-end 1974, to 16.7% at year-end
1976, for the five state commercial banks (Appendix 1). While some increases
in arrears as a proportion of outstanding portfolio is to be expected in the
initial years of a new credit program, as more and more loans enter the
repayment phase, the magnitude of the increase is a cause for concern.
29.       Data on collections performance, which indicate the trend in repay-
ments, confirm the deteriorating arrears situation. The collections rate /2
on principal for the five state commercial banks declined from 74% in 1974,
to 66% in 1975, and 52% in 1976, as follows:
/1 As KMKP loans are now handled on an overdraft basis, normally without
repayments required until final maturity (and even then subject to roil-
over), there is no meaningful data available on KMKP arrears.
/2 Defined as amount collected divided by amount that should have been
collected, which consists of outstanding arrears plus amounts newly
falling due.



- 77 -
ANNEh. 4
Page 10
COLLECTIONS PERFORMANCE UNDER KTK, 1974-76 /a
(in Rp million and %)
1974         1-975         1976
Outstanding portfolio as of January 1               -         12,817        20,235
Disbursements during year                       14,918        11,377        19,231
Repayments due during year:
Arrears as of January 1                         -             742         2,045
New repayments due                            2,843         5,262         9,657
Total due                                  2,843         6,004        11,702
Collections during year                          2,101         3,959         6,125
Collections rate                                  73.9%        65.9%         52.3%
Arrears as of December 31                           742        2,045         5,577
Portfolio as of December 31                     12,817        20,235        33,331
Arrears as % of outstanding
portfolio, at year-end                         5.8%         10.1%         16.7%
/a For the five state commercial banks; principal only (excluding interest).
30.       These figures reflect (a) the high risk and low profitability of
many SSEs, (b) the uneven quality of project appraisal, supervision and
collection efforts by the handling banks, and (c) the difficulty in fore-
closing on loans. The last results in part from the requirement that the
handling banks use Government's quasi-judicial collection agency, PUPN, for
the collection of delinquent accounts. Under the terms of the latest Bank
loan to BAPINDO, PUPN's operations would be reviewed and a specific reform
plan agreed with the Bank. Another possible reason for poor collections is
that handling banks seldom charge the 3% p.a. penalty interest (in addition
to the regular 10.5% p.a. interest) on loan amounts in arrears under KIK.
Starting March 31, 1978, handling banks will actually enforce the penalty
rate on all KIK loan amounts willfully in default for more than ninety
days.
Interest Margins to Handling Banks
31.       Interest rates for subborrowers and rediscounting terms from BI
were established to offer adequate incentives to handling banks to participate
in the KIK/KMKP program. With an average cost of their own loanable funds
(primarily demand and time deposits) of around 6.4% p.a., banks are given gross



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11
spreads of about 7% p.a. on both KIK and KMKP,/I for amounts not in arrears.
Such margins would normally be considered generous, but in the present case
appear barely adequate to cover administrative costs, conservatively estimated
at 4.5-5%/2 of the outstanding portfolio, plus the residual 25% credit risk
equivalent to an additional charge of around 1.3% p.a., on the assumption that
all interest is paid but 10% of the principal gets written off. On KIK amounts
in arrears, the handling banks' position is worse since BI withdraws its
liquidity, leaving the banks to finance this entirely with their own funds.
The resultant 2.7% p.a. increase in the banks' average cost of funds (from
3.7% p.a. to 6.4% p.a.) should normally be offset by the existing 3% p.a.
penalty interest rate; however, this penalty is seldom collected. While more
information is needed on the handling banks' KIK/KMKP administrative costs and
loan default rates to judge the adequacy of the spread, it is probable that
handling banks would need an additional financial incentive to expand KIK/KMKP
lending at present.
Future Prospects for KIK/KMKP
32.       Existing problems notwithstanding, the future of KIK/KMKP seems well
assured. The Government is committed to further develop SSEs, through both
credit and technical assistance, primarily to create employment, and also to
help nurture entrepreneurship, improve technical skills, and reduce the pres-
sure for rural to urban migration. Adequate finance will therefore continue
to be made available for KIK/KMKP. A sustained high demand for loans is
anticipated from both old customers seeking to expand their operations and
new clients more and more often coming into the program under the category
or l'massal" approach. The development of this lending approach, coupled with
improvements in staff training, disbursement control, loan supervision and
information reporting, should correct many of the institutional weaknesses
affecting KIK/MKKP operations at present. Changes in terms and conditions of
lending and refinancing would increase the willingness of the handling banks
to increase their lending to this high-risk sector. Finally, better coordina-
tion between the Government agencies and financial institutions involved would
enhance the prospects of the subborrowers, thereby gradually rendering most
of the banks' apprehensions unjustified.
/1 For KIK, the average cost of funds is (80% x 3%) + (20% x 6.4%) = 3.7%;
for KMKP, (75% x 4%) + (25% x 6.4%) = 4.6%. The 1.5% flat fee to ASKRINDO
is equivalent to almost a 1% annual charge for 3-year KIK loans repaid in
equal semi-annual installments, and a 0.7% annual charge for 2-1/2 year
KMKP loans repayable in full at maturity.
/2 Which is the ratio of BRI's total administrative costs to its total
portfolio.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Terms and Conditions of KIK/KMKP Loans
For the Borrower                                            KIK             KMKP
Interest rate (including commissions)                     10.5% p.a.    12% p.a.
Maximum term                                              5 years         3 years
Maximum grace period                                      2 years         Not applicable /a
Collateral requirement                                   At least 100% of loan amount
Borrower's contribution to project financing             No minimum requirement
Maximum loan amount /b                                    Rp 5 million   Rp 5 million
For the Handling Bank (State Banks, including BAPINDO)
Bank Indonesia (BI) rediscount rate                       3% p.a.         4% p.a.
Share of rediscount                                       80%             75%
Credit insurance fee to
ASKRINDO (one-time charge)                              1.5% of the loan amount
(BI's share: 1.5% of the loan amount)
Risk exposure                                             25% of the loan amount
B.  Arrangements between BAPINDO and the Regional Development Banks (RDBs)
Co-financing share:                                         KIK             KMKP
RDB                                                       10%              8%
BAPINDO                                                   10%            17%
BI                                                       80%             75%
Sharing of interest income:
RDB                                                      50%             33%
BAPINDO                                                  27%             42%
BI                                                       23%             25%
Risk exposure:
RDB                                              10% x 25% = 2.5% of the loan amount
BAPINDO                                          90% x 25% = 22.5% of the loan amount
/a Given that the loan account is handled on an overdraft basis.
/b Except for repeat loans for which the ceiling has been raised to Rp 10 million,
under both KIK and KMKP, provided debt servicing of the previous loan was
satisfactory.



_ 80 _
ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of KIK/KMKP "Massal" Programs by Handling Bank
(as of December 31, 1976)
KIK                            KMKP
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Fishpond development                    Markets
Fishing boat motorization               Fisheries
Storage and drying floors               Cloves
Rice milling units                      Pepper
Mist blowers                            Tobacco
Rice field development                  Cotton
Cattle breeding                         Sugar cane
Poultry
Cattle fattening
Bank Dagang Negara
Markets
Bank Bumi Daya
Markets
Tobacco
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
Markets                                 Markets
Transport boat motorization
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia
Markets                                 Tobacco
BAPINDO/RDBs
Transportation



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK Lending Operations by Bank, 1974-76
(in Rp million)
Cumulative
Calendar year                       1974             1975            1976            total
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %
Approvals
Bank Rakyat Indonesia            7,447   49.0   7,827   62.0  11,997   57.0  27,271   56.0
Bank Bumi Daya                   2,515   16.0   1,449   11.0   3,280   16.0   7,244   15.0
Bank Dagang Negara               2,182   14.0       587    5.0      834    4.0   3,603    7.0
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia    1,098    7.0         388    3.0      817    4.0   2,303    5.0
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946       1,676   11.0   1,126    9.0   2,303   11.0   5,105   10.0
BAPINDO/Regional Development
Banks                            418    3.0   1,271   10.0   1,791    8.0   3,480    7.0
Total approvals          15,336  100.0  12,648  100.0  21,022  100.0  49,006  100.0
Outstanding at end of period
Bank Rakyat Indonesia            6,184   47.0  12,071   56.0  20,614   57.0
Bank Bumi Daya                   2,171   16.0   2,929   13.0   5,320   15.0
Bank Dagang Negara               1,981   15.0   1,930    9.0   2,265    6.0
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia    1,029    8.0   1,164    5.0   1,664    5.0
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946       1,452   11.0   2,141   10.0   3,468   10.0
BAPINDO/Regional Development
Banks                            367    3.0   1,447    7.0   2,591    7.0
Total outstanding        13,184  100.0  21,682  100.0  35,922  100.0
Source: Handling Banks.



-8 2 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTEPPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KMKP Lending Operations by Bank, 1974-76
(in Rp million)
Cumulative
Calendar year                        1974             1975            1976            total
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %
Approvals
Bank Rakyat Indonesia             7,455   48.0  11,873   66.0  16,194   60.0  35,522   59.0
Bank Bumi Daya                    1,796   11.0       981    5.0   1,988    8.0   4,765    8.0
Bank Dagang Negara                1,829   12.0       957    5.0   1,537    6.0   4,323    7.0
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia       1,768   11.0       861    5.0   1,439    5.0   4,068    7.0
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946        2,329   15.0   2,186   12.0   4,021   15.0   8,536   14.0
BAPINDO/Regional Development
Banks                             429    3.0   1,257    7.0   1,670    6.0   3,356    5.0
Total approvals           15,606  100.0  18,115  100.0  26,849  100.0  60,570  100.0
Outstanding at end of period
Bank Rakyat Indonesia             7,337   52.4  15,241   61.0  27,323   63.1
Bank Bumi Daya                    1,385    9.9   1,857    7.0   3,130    7.2
Bank Dagang Negara                1,428   10.0   1,497    6.0   2,128    4.9
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia       1,581   11.3   1,881    8.0   2,716    6.3
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946        1,919   14.0   3,016   12.0   5,591   12.9
BAPINDO/Regional Development
Banks                             340    2.4   1,390    6.0   2,392    5.6
Total outstanding         13,990  100.0  24,882  100.0  43,280  100.0
Source: Handling Banks.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK Loan Approvals by Bank and by Project Province, 1974-76
(in Rp million)
Cumulative
Calendar Year                             1974     1975      1976        total
West Sumatra
Bank Rakyat Indonesia                     259.3    289.8    213.6         762.7
Bank Bumi Daya                             47.1     25.0      14.0         86.1
Bank Dagang Negara                          2.3      3.3      41.2         46.8
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia                15.5      -        10.0         25.5
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946                101.5    104.0    147.7         353.2
BAPINDO/Regional Development Banks         80.4    171.1    280.4         531.9
Total                           506.1    593.2    706.9        1,806.2
Central Java
Bank Rakyat Indonesia                   1,253.5  1,298.3  1.925.1       4,476.9
Bank Bumi Daya                            274.1    157.2    405.4         836.7
Bank Dagang Negara                        195.3     66.0     25.9         287.2
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia               125.5     19.5     68.0         213.0
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946                177.8    140.2    143.3         461.3
BAPINDO/Regional Development Banks        126.8    243.3    352.6         722.7
Total                         2,153.0  1,924.5  2,920.3       6,997.8
East Java
Bank Rakyat Indonesia                   1,205.7  1,644.1  2,630.5       5,480.3
Bank Bumi Daya                            295.8    281.3    347.0         924.1
Bank Dagang Negara                        122.8     19.9    189.1         331.8
Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia                72.0     22.0     51.8         145.8
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946                210.5    208.5    243.8         662.8
BAPINDO/Regional Development Banks          -        -        6.1           6.1
Total                         1,906.8  2,175.8  3,468.3       7,550.9
Source: State Commercial Banks.



- 84 -                                       ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Economic Sector as of June 30, 1976
(in Rp million)
Economic sector                                KIK loans                       KMKP loans
Number   Amount      %         Number   Amount       %
Agriculture
Farming                                 2,971    3,426    9.3          3,152    1,793    4.6
Livestock                                 988    1,255    3.4          1,422    1,523    3.9
Hunting                                    29        73    0.2            41        56    0.2
Forestry                                    3        14    0.1             2         4      -
Fisheries                               2,036    3,424    9.3          1,637    1,359    3.5
Other                                      15        48    0.1            41        60    0.2
Subtotal-                         6,042    8,240   22.4           6,295    4,795   12.4
Industry
Food, beverages and tobacco             1,808    3,655   10.0          2,502    3,503    9.1
of which:  rice milling              (1,140)  (2,341)  (6.4)          (885)  (1,536)  (4.0)
Textiles, garments and leather            436       751    2.0         1,981    2,990    7.7
Wood, wood products and furniture         374       989    2.7         1,590    2,440    6.3
Paper, paper products, printing
and publishing                          163      460    1.3            249       459    1.2
Chemicals and chemical products            55       141    0.4           153       273    0.7
Nonmetallic minerals                      538    1,187    3.2          1,127    1,291    3.4
Basic metals                               23        64    0.2            96       135    0.3
Machinery, tools and other metal
products                                193      410    1.1            559       750    1.9
Other                                      41        75    0.2           150       189    0.5
Subtotal                          3,631    7,732   21.1          8,407   12,030   31.1
Trade
Construction                              104       377    1.0           459    1,290    3.3
Wholesale trade                         1,169    2,984    8.1          3,034    5,810   15.0
Retail trade                            4,151    5,070   13.8          7,881   12,587   32.6
Hotels, restaurants                       294       874    2.4           216       350    0.9
Subtotal                          5,718    9,305   25.3         11,590   20,037   51.8
Transportation
Transportation                          3,403   10,038   27.4            395       886    2.3
Storage                                    80      226    0.6              9         9     -
Other                                       498    1,183    3.2            589       928    2.4
Total approvals                  19,372   36,724  100.0         27,285   38,685  100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMRP Loan Approvals by Province
(As of December 31, 1976; in Rp million)
Provincial
population
as percentage
Province                  of national         KIK loans                     .KMKP loans
population   Number   Amount       %        Number   Amount      %
Sumatra
Aceh                        1.7          708    1,326    2.9            779    1,126    2.3
North Sumatra               5.6        1,007    2,943    6.4         1L968    3,886    7.8
West Sumatra                2.4          675    1,723    3.8           832    1,780    3.6
Riau                        1.4          274      773    1.7           462       917    1.8
Jambi                       1.0          118      323    0.7           202       400    0.8
South Sumatra               2.9          311      845    1.8           310       633    1.3
Bengkulu                    0.4          310      243    0.5           120       305    0.6
Lampung                     2.3          253      601    1.3           314       740    1.5
Subtotal              17.7       3,656    8,777   19.1          4,987    9,797   19.7
Java
West Java                  18.3        2,535    6,283   13.7         2,708    5,256   10.6
Jakarta                     3.8        2,409    3,440    7.5            709    2,074    4.1
Central Java               18.5        3,706    6,910   15.1         6,374    9,395   18.9
Yogyakarta                  2.1        1,406    1,373    3.0         1,784    2,353    4.7
East Java                  21.5        5,179    7,574   16.5        11,113   10,766   21.7
Subtotal              64.2      15,235   25,580   55.8         22,688   29,844   60.0
Kalimantan
West Kalimantan             1.7          124      344    0.7            190      334    0.7
South Kalimantan            1.4          299      994    2.2           386       828    1.7
Central Kalimantan          0.6          103      340   07            163       315    0.6
East Kalimantan             0.6          111      305    0.7           146       354    0.7
Subtotal               4.3         637    1,983    4.3            885    1,831    3.7
Sulawesi
North Sulawezi              1.5          438       915    2.0           572      884    1.8
Central Sulaw,esi           0.7          370      706    1.5            480     .837    1.7
South Sulawesi              4.4        1,399    3,490    7.6         1,434    1,926    3.9
Southeast Sulawesi          0.6           96      205    0.5            T 33     255    0.5
Subtotal               7.2       2,303    5,316   11,6          2,669    3,902    7.9
C-.er Provinces
Haluku                      0.9          237      506    1.1            1 S7     285    0.6
Irian Jaya                  0.1          219      623    1.4            232      624    1.2
West Nusa Tenggara          1.9          172      213    0.5            209      203    0.4
East Nusa Tenggara          1.9          471      858    1.9            556      659    1.3
Z-aaii                      1.8          828    1,996    4.3         1,583    2,560    5.2
Subtotal               6.6       1,927    4,196    9.2          2,747    4,331    8.7
Total approvals      100.0      23,758       852  100.0        33,97,   49.695  100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia.



-86-
ANNEX 4
Table 8
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Sector and
Project Province as of March 31, 1977
(in Rp million)
KIK loans                      KMKP loans
Number     Amount      %       Number     Amount      %
West Sumatra
Agriculture              74        212      11.7        18          23      1.3
Industry               171         465      25.7       147        303      16.5
Trade                   249        446      24.6       647      1,387      75.7
Transportation          189        592      32.7        11          34      1.8
Other                    32         97       5.3        32          86      4.7
Total          715       1,812    100.0        855      1,833    100.0
Central Java
Agriculture           1,845      2,309      30.8     1,274       1,356     13.1
Industry                790      1,639      21.9     2,521      3,891      37.0
Trade                   626      1,508      20.1     3,003      4,716      45.4
Transportation          692      1,793      23.9        40          63      1.0
Other                   107        248       3.3       213         365      3.5
Total        4,060       7,497    100.0      7,051     10,391    100.0
East Java
Agriculture           1,505      1,491      17.6     4,711       2,564     21.2
Industry             1,081       2,034      24.1     3,301      3,639      30.0
Trade                 2,159      2,671      32.7     3,737       4,924     40.6
Transportation          713      1,771      21.0       157         317      2.6
Other                   167        394       4.6       305         672      5.6
Total        5,625       8,451    100.0    12,211      12,116    100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Table 9
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Location of Projects Financed
(As of March 31, 1976; in Rp million)
KIK Loans                      KMKP Loans
Number   Amount      %         Number   Amount       %
West Sumatra
Main cities                  227       579   53.0            467      897   80.4
Other areas                  151       514   47.0            107      218   19.6
Total                  378    1,093  100.0             574    1.115  100.0
Central Java
Main cities                  381       962   19.0            774    1,470   23.9
Other areas                2,328    4,094   81.0          3,509    4,688   76.1
Total                2,709    5,056  100.0           4,283    6,158  100.0
East Java
Main cities                1,189    1,865   46.0          1,793    2,341   20.1
Other areas                2,324    3,313   64.0          5,095    9,288   79.9
Total                3,513    5,178  100.0           6,888   11,629  100.0
Total Indonesia
Main cities                6,056   11,099   35.4          5,861   11,189   35.3
Other areas               11,028   20,233   64.6         17,547   20,527   64.7
Grand Total         17,084   31,332  100.0         23,408   31,716  100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 88-
ANNEX 4
Table 10
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Characteristics of Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals
(As of December 31, 1976; amount in Rp million)
KIK loans                      KMKP loans
Number      %   Amount      %   Number       %   Amount      %
Distribution by Amount
Less than 1 million        9,755   41.0   4,757   10.4  18,071   53.2   9,955   20.0
1-2 million           5,097   21.5   8,719   19.0   9,018   26.5  15,323   30.8
2-3 million           4,166   17.5  11,075   24.1   3,565   10.5   9,710   19.5
3-4 million            1,580    6.7   5,854   12.8   1,473    4.3   5,573   11.2
4-5 million           3,160   13.3  15,447   33.7   1,849    5.5   9,134   18.5
Total               23,758  100.0  45,852  100.0  33,976  100.0  49,695  100.0
Distribution by Maturity
Less than 1 year           1,166    4.9       732    1.6   4,385   12.9   2,666    5.4
1-2 years             2,039    8.6   2,272    4.9   9,871   29.1  11,455   23.0
2-3 years            10,106   42.5  16,118   35.2  19,720   58.0  35,574   71.6
3-4 years             3,974   16.7  10,058   21.9           -      -        -       -
4-5 years             6,473   27.3  16,672   36.4           -      -        -       -
Total               23,758  100.0  45,852  100.0  33,976  100.0  49,695  100.0
Purpose of Financing
Buildings                  6,674   28.1   9,481   20.7
Equipment                 12,066   50.8  28,695   62.6
Other                      5,018   21.1   7,676   16.7
Total               23,758  100.0  45,852  100.0
Type of Project
Expansion                 16,235   68.4  35,149   76.6
Modernization              4,547   19.1   4,961   10.8
New Development            2,976   12.5   5,742   12.6
Total               23,758  100.0  45,852  100.0
Existing project                                          31,165   91.7  48,039   96.7
New project                                                 2,811    8.3   1,656    3.3
Total                                                33.976  100.0  49,695  100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia.



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Sector and by Bank
(As of December 31, 1976; in Rp million)
BRI                                         BBD                                          BDN
% of Bank's              % of total         % of Bank's               % of total         % of Bank's              % of total
KIK/KMKP              KIK/KMKP lend-        KIK/KMKP              KIK/KMKP lend-         KIK/KMKP              KIK/KMKP lend-
lending    Amount  ing to sector            lending    Amount  ing to sector             lending    Amount  ing to sector
Agriculture
KIK                 34.9       8,876        86.1                  8.5        591          5.7                 1.8         61           0.6
KMKP                14.7       3,718        66.5                10.8         519          9.3                 0.8         34           0.6
Industry
KIK                 17.7       4,510        49.3                  8.5        585          6.4                10.7        364           4.0                    x
KMKP                27.8       7,014        48.3                16.9         812          5.6                10.0        410           2.8
Trade
KIK                 19.6       4,979        45.6                20.0       1,384         12.7                68.7      2,340          21.5
KMKP                50.9      12,854        50.3                53.4      2,572          10.1                82.3      3,370          13.2
Transportation
KIK                 25.2       6,429        47.6                58.4       4,041         29.9                14.8        506           3.7
KMKP                 1.7         433        39.0                 8.5         410         37.0                 1.7         68           6.1
Other
KIK                  2.6         649        32.9                 4.6         321         16.2                 4.0         136          6.9
KMKP                 4.9       1,235        42.2                10.4         499         17.0                 5.2        211           7.2
Total
KIK                100.0      25,443        55.5               100.0       6,922         15.1               100.0      3,407           7.5
KMKP               100.0      25,254        50.8               100.0       4,812          9.7               100.0      4,093           8.2
Source:  Bank Indonesia.                                                                                                                                 (D



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Sector and by Bank
(As of December 31, 1976; in Rp million)
BEII                                       BNI 46                                       BAPINDO
% of Bank's              % of total         % of Bank's               % of total         % of Bank's              % of total
KIK/KMKP              KIK/KMKP lend-        KIK/KMKP              KIK/KMKP lend-         KIK/KMKP              KIK/KMKP lend-
lending    Amount  ing to sector            lending    Amount  ing to sector             lending    Amount  ing to sector
Agriculture
KIK                  7.8        175          1.7                 3.1         149          1.5                14.8        455          4.4
KMKP                25.1      1,019         18.2                 1.2         103          1.8                 6.7        201          3.6
Industry                                                             '0
KIK                 15.6        352          3.9                55.6      2,635          28.8                22.6        697           7.6
KMKP                12.4        502          3.5                57.8      4,887          33.7                29.5        893          6.1
Trade
KIK                 40.2        909          8.3                14.3         677          6.2                20.2        622           5.7
KMKP                54.1      2,195          8.6                33.0      2,788          10.9                58.3      1,765          6.9
Transportation
KIK                 25.1        567          4.2                18.0         855          6.3                36.3      1,119           8.3
KMKP                 1.7         67          6.0                 1.2         101          9.1                 1.0         31           2.8
Other
KIK                 11.3        256         13.0                 9.0         424         21.5                 6.1        188           9.5
KMKP                 6.7        273          9.3                 6.8        574          19.6                 4.5        137           4.7
Total
KIK                100.0      2,259          4.9               100.0       4,740         10.3               100.0      3,081           6.7
KMKP               100.0      4,056          8.2               100.0      8,453          17.0               100.0      3,027           6.1
Source:  Bank Indonesia.                                                                                                                                _x



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Table 11
Page 3
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMKP Loan Approvals by Sector and by Bank
(As of December 31, 1976; in Rp million)
Total
% of Bank's                         % of total
KIK/KMKP                         KIK/KMKP lend-
lending           Amount         ing to sector
Agriculture
KIK                22.5             10,307             100.0
KMKP               11.3             5,594              100.0
Industry
KIK                19.9              9,143             100.0
KMKP               29.2            14,518              100.0
Trade
KIK                23.8             10,911             100.0
KMKP               51.4            25,544              100.0
Transportation
KIK                29.5             13,517             100.0
KMKP                2.2              1,110             100.0
Other
KIK                 4.3              1,974             100.0
KMKP                5.9             2,929              100.0
Total
KIK               100.0            45,852              100.0
KMKP              100.0            49,695              100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 92 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of the Arrears Situation under KIK
1.        There is at present little reliable information available from the
handling banks on arrears under KIK. To analyze the arrears situation, two
approaches have been used. The first is based on Bank Indonesia's policy
of automatically debiting a handling bank for the rediscounted portion of a
subloan amortization when it falls due, regardless of whether or not the
bank's borrower repaid, which permits the overall level of KIK arrears of the
state commercial banks to be calculated. The second uses a randomly selected
sample of 20 BRI branches in West, Central and East Java, whose KIK portfolios
(numbering 1,000 loans) were analyzed in full, on a loan-by-loan basis. This
has provided more complete data on the collections performance of the main
handling bank, which held 57% of the total outstanding KIK portfolio as of
December 31, 1976.
Use of BI's Automatic Debit Policy
2.        Outstanding KIK liquidity credits (i.e. rediscounts) of Bank Indonesia
to handling banks as of year-end 1974-76, were as follows:
BANK INDONESIA OUTSTANDING KIK LIQUIDITY
CREDITS TO BANKS, 1974-76
(Rp million)
As of December 31        1974         1975       1976
Amount Outstanding
BRI                  4,638        8,720      13,899
BBD                  1,585       2,081        3,417
BDN                  1,553       1,368        1,374
BEII                   797          828       1,101
BNI 46               1,088       1,555        2,411
Total Outstanding       9,661       14,552      22,202
Source: Bank Indonesia.



-93-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
Each outstanding amount above corresponds to 80% of what the outstanding
position of each bank would be if all loans were servicing regularly. Such
a position is depicted in the following table:
STATE BANKS' OUTSTANDING KIK POSITIONS IN
THE ABSENCE OF ARREARS, 1974-76
(Rp million)
As of December 31         1974        1975        1976
Amount Outstanding
BRI                  5,797       10,900       17,374
BBD                  1,981        2,601        4,271
BDN                  1,941        1,710        1,718
BEII                   996        1,035        1,377
BNI 46               1,360        1,944        3,014
Total Outstanding      12,075       18,190       27,754
The actual KIK portfolio positions of the state banks as of the same dates
were:
STATE BANKS' OUTSTANDING KIK PORTFOLIOS, 1974-76
(Rp million)
As of December 31        1974         1975        1.976
Amount Outstanding
BRI                  6,184       12,071       20,614
BBD                  2,171        2,929        5,320
BDN                  1,981        1,930        2,265
BEII                 1,029        1,164        1,664
BNI 46               1,452        2,141        3,468
Total Outstanding      12,817       20,235       33,331



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
The difference between the two preceding tables represents the amount of
arrears by bank at the end of each period. This amount is shown below:
KIK ARREARS BY STATE BANK, 1974-76
(Rp million)
As of December 31         1974         1975       1976
Amount in Arrears
BRI                    387        1,171        3,240
BBD                    190          328        1,049
BDN                     40          220          547
BEII                    33          129          287
BNI 46                   92         197          454
Total Arrears              742        2,045       5.577
As a percentage of outstanding KIK portfolios, arrears levels were as follows:
KIK ARREARS AS PERCENTAGE OF OUTSTANDING PORTFOLIOS, 1974-76
(%)
As of December 31         1974         1975        1976
Arrears/Outstanding Portfolio
BRI                    6.2          9.7        15.7
BBD                    8.7         11.2        19.7
BDN                    2.0         11.4        24.1
BEII                   3.2         11.1        17.2
BNI 46                 6.3          9.2        13.1
Total All 5 Banks          5.8         10.1       16.7
These figures show a rising trend in arrearages not atypical for a new credit
program, as more and more loans enter the repayment stage. Data on collections
performance must therefore be used to provide a clear indication of the trend
in repayments.



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 4
Survey of BRI Branches in Java
3.        In October/November 1976, a stratified random sample of 22 BRI
branches - 6 (out of 28) in West Java, 9 (out of 46) in Central Java, and 7
(out of 33) in East Java - was selected by the Bank. These branches were asked
to report, on a loan-by-loan basis, the condition of their KIK portfolio as of
December 31, 1976. Two branches did not respond. The results of this survey
are presented in Table 1. Overall, 70% of total amounts outstanding were
affected by arrears (of principal, interest or both); in terms of number of
loans, 65% had overdues. Actual arrears represented 23% of total loans out-
standing. Loans affected by arrears of principal as a percentage of loans in
the repayment stage stood at 69% by amount and 59% by number; total arrears of
principal accounted for 25% of loans in the repayment stage.
4.        Differences by type of lending program, for special (or "massal")
KIK, are noticeable but not always statistically significant due to small
sample sizes. Differences between general and special KIK lending, however,
are significant. The level of "massal" loans affected by arrears (77% of
outstanding portfolio) is higher, though total arrears as a percentage of loans
outstanding, at 19%, is lower than the figures for general KIK lending (69% and
24% respectively). This is because special KIK lending is more recent. Collec-
tions performance (defined as amounts collected as a percentage of amounts of
principal that should have been collected), at 34% for KIK "massal" compared
to 66% for general KIK, shows that if the trend continues, arrears under BRI's
"massal" lending will exceed the levels reached for general KIK.



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia:  Analysis, on a Sample Basis,/a of KIK Loans in Arrears in Java, as of December 31, 1976
(Amounts in Rp million)
Subtotal
General KIK loans                                                    Special KIK loans                                                      Special KIK loans         Total KIK loans
Water           Mist         Market           Godown and        Outboard        Inboard
Fisheries        oumps        blowers         stalls         drying floors        motors         motors
Portfolio status                          No.          Aat.         No.   Amt.    No.   Amt.   No.   Amt.   No.   Amt.    No.                Amt.   No.   Amt.   No.   Iomt.          No.            Amt.         No.    Amt.
Total loans outstanding                   771        1,113.1        124   219.1    16   17.7    58   9.8            8   2.1         5         15.1    16    3.5        2   10.0       229           277.3        1,000   1,390.4
Less:  loans in grace period            143          337.8         83   105.5    13   16.4    24   5.2            8   2.1         2         6.1       -     -        1    5.0       131           140.3          274      478.1
Loans in repayment stage            628           775.3         41   113.6       3    1.3    34   4.6         _    _           3         9.0    16    3.5        1    5.0        98           137.0          726      912.3
Outstanding amount affected
by arrears                             491           764.5        111   179.9       2    0.7    15   2.6          3   0.8         5        15.1    16    3.5        2   10.0        154          212.6          645       977.1
Arrears
Principal                              366           193.2         30    29.4       2    0.7    11   0.4          -    -          3         3.0    16    2.3        1    0.2         63            36.0         429       229.2
Interest                                298           75.5         95    16.3       -      -      13   0.2        3   0.005       2         0.4    16    0.7        2    0.2        131            17.8         429        93.3
Total arrears                                     268.7               45.7            0.7           0.6            0.005                 3.4            3.0            0.4                     53.8                   322.5
Loans affected by arrears as %
of total loans outstanding             64%             69%        90%      82%   13X       4%   26%   27%    38%        38%   100%         100%  100%   100%  100%   100%           67%             77%          65%        70%
Loans affected by arrears of
principal as % of total loans
in repayment stage                     58%             67%        73%      79%   67%      54%   32%   41%        -      -      100%        100%  100%    100%  100%   100%          64%             81%          59%        69%
Total arrears as X of total
loans outstanding                                      24%                 21%             4%            6%            0.2%                 22%            86%             4%                       19%                     23Z
Total arrears of principal as Z
of total loans in repayment stage                       25%                26%            54%            9%             -                    33%            66%             2%                      26Z                     25%
Amounts collected as % of amounts
that should have been collected
(principal only)                                       66%                 34%            67%          54%                                    0%           29%             0%                       34%                     63%
/a  Stratified random sample of 20 BRI branches in West, Central and East Java, whose KIK portfolios were analyzed in full, on a loan-by-loan basis.
Source: BRI.
I EL



I



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK/KMKP LOAN PROCESSING FLOW CHART
CASE I -LOANS WITHIN BRANCH MANAGER'S
COMMITMENT AUTHORITY
Pre-Filing Stage
1 )    Application Filed
2 days
Site Inspection/Field Appraisal
Y        by Credit Examiner
5 days
Completion of Credit Evaluation Report
Incl. Proposed Loan Amount, Terms and Conditions.
1 day
Internal Staff Review
1 day
Approval/Rejection by Branch Manager
Documents sent to Regional Office
2 days
6>       Regional Office requests Refinancing*
wf4)     from Bank Indonesia Branch
3 days
{        Bank Indonesia Branch reviews
and approves Refinancing Request.
5 days
@        Preparation of Loan Documents
2 days
Total = 21 working days                           Loan Agreements signed by Applicant/Branch
or
28 calendar days.
4'      Loan Documents Filed.
* The case of Regional Offices applies to BRI
and BNI '46. For the other Handling Banks,
the Branch deals directly with the local
Bank Indonesia Branch.
World Bank-17384



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK/KMKP LOAN PROCESSING FLOW-CHART
CASE 11- LOANS ABOVE BRANCH MANAGER'S
COMMITMENT AUTHORITY
T         Pre-Filing Stage
Application Filed
2days
2t      Site Inspection/Field Appraisal by
Credit Examiner
5 days
Completion of Credit Evaluation Report
Incl. Proposed Loan Amount, Terms and Conditions
Internal Staff Review
1 day
5        Recommendation by Branch Manager
sent to Regional Office.*
2 days
Completion of Credit Evaluation Report
Review at Credit Dept. of Regional Office*
Recommendation
l     days
(f        Approval/Rejection by Regional Office
tf   Manager. Refinancing Request sent to Bl.
|3 days
Bank Indonesia Branch reviews and
approves Refinancing  Request.
Informs Regional*/Branch Office.
5 days
90)      Preparation of Loan Documents
2 days
Total  25 working days                1         Loan Agreement signed by Applicant/Branch
or
35 calendar days
Loan Documents Filed
In the case of Handling Banks that do not
have Regional Offices, the Report is reviewed
and approved at Head Office. The Branch
thereafter requests Refinancing from Bank
Indonesia's local Branch.
World Bank-17383



INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA CREDIT DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL MANAGER
(1)
DEPUTY
GENERAL MANAGER
_ _ _ _ _ _    j  ~~~(1)
INVESTMENT       COMMERCIAL         PRODUCTION      CREDIT               PROJECT
CREDIT           CREDIT             LOAN            ADMINISTRATION        AID
DiVISION         DIVISION           DIVISION        DIVISION              DIVISION
(2)
SHORT-TERM CREDIT GROUP                                   SMALL ENTERPRISE CREDIT GROUP
STATE           E      ~~~SHORT-TERM         CREDIT              MAS                 os&CREDIT
STATE            PRIATES        CREDIT               CEILING &          MASSIT          ANAELYSISN &APPLICATIONS
SEAINS           BATINK         ADMINISTRATION       INSURANCE          SCREITN        DEELPECINT         SECTION
SECTI O NX   0   S ECTION              3                   F<SECTION  SECTION  S          TION          i (JAKARTA)
(5)               (2)               (4)              (12)               (7)                (7)               (8)
Note: Numbers in parantheses refer to number of staff.
World 8an k--173388



INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA CREDIT SUPERVISION DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL MANAGER
(1)
DEP UTY
GENERAL MANAGER
F~~~~~
CREDIT PLANNING               CREDIT SUPERVISION              CREDIT EXAMINATION
DIVISION                    |DIVISIONDIVISION
(3)
COORDINATING     ANALYSIS    INVESTMENT    SHORT--TERM       KIK/KM P       BAD DEBTS      GUIDANCE       GENERAL
SECTION  SECTION C   CREDIT
.~~~~~~~~ETO    SETO                                                SETO    SECTArKK/M  ArGIOANC;  SECTION
(2)          (13             5)            (6)            (6)            (7)            (4)           (19)
Note: Numbers in parantheses refer to number of staff.
World Bank-17389



INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA REGIONAL OFFICE
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION CHART
BRANCH MANAGER
|  .                   ~~~~~~COORDINATING
-  I                        ~~~~~~~~SECTION
DEPUTY MANAGER I
DEUYMANAGER II                                                                                       EBANK EXAMINER
I                                                        I                                                   I
CASH           BOOKKEEPING    GENERAL             FOREIGN          CREDIT           CREDIT            BANK             BANK                SEARCH
SECTION       AND             ADMINISTRATION      EXCHANGE         AND FUNDS        SUPERVISION       SUPERVISION      EXAMINATION       SECTION
SECTION        BUDGET         SECTION             SECTION          SECTION          SECTION           SECTION         SECTION
GENERAL
CREDIT
UNIT
KIK/KMKP
UNIT
FUNDS
MOBI LIZATION
UNIT
World Bank-17390



INDONESIA
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF A
STATE COMMERCIAL BANK REGIONAL OFFICE
REGIONAL OFFICE MANAGER
DEPUTY MANAGER
GENERAL/PERSONNEL            AUDITI/ACCOUNTING                  FINANCE                                    CREDIT
DIVISION                     DIVISION                           DIVISION                                    D:VISION
BOOKKEEPING            ~~FUNDS AND
LOGISTICS    PERSONNEL      INTERNAL    AOKKEPNGCAHBANK                                 CREDIT        CREDIT        CREDIT         KIK/KMKP
SECTION      SECTION        CONTROL    REPORTINGSECTION                  SERVICES       SECTION I     SECTION it    SECTION III    SECTION
REPORTING  SECTION
BRANCH OFFICES
World Bank-1 73815



INDONESIA
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF A
STATE COMMERCIAL BANK BRANCH OFFICE
BRANCH MANAGER
(I)
I                                                              1
CREDIT OFFICER                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER
(1)                                                            1
CREDIT EVALUATION       CREDIT SUPERVISION        CASH         BOOKKEEPING      LOGISTICS      PERSONNEL      AUDIT AND
SECTION                 SECTION                   SECTION      SECTION          SECTION        SECTION        CONTROL
(5-8)                   (2-3)            (2-4)          (3-5)          (2-3)            (3)             (2)
Note; Numbers in parantheses refer to number of staff.
World Bank-17386



I



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation (ASKRINDO)
1.        The Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation, Ltd. (P.T. Asuransi
Kredit Indonesia, or ASKRINDO) was established in 1971, primarily to encourage
bank lending to small- and medium-size enterprises, particularly those with
insufficient collateral to normally be eligible for institutional credit, by
insuring the banks against most of the loan default risk. ASKRINDO is owned by
the Government and Bank Indonesia (BI), but is supposed to operate on a commer-
cial basis. A two-man Board of Supervisors, from BI and the Ministry of
Finance, sets general policy for ASKRINDO's Board of Directors, composed
of the President Director and two other full-time Directors, and its nine
departments (Research and Development; Analysis and Supervision; Treaties and
Acceptances; Claim Assessment; Reinsurance; Finance and Accounting; Personnel
and General; Internal Control and Legal). The total staff is about 90 people.
2.        Askrindo engages in reinsurance (of fire, transport, marine, engin-
eering, aviation and miscellaneous insurance) and in insurance of two small-
enterprise credit programs: small short-term commercial loans (Kredit
Exploitasi Biasa, or KEB), almost exclusively (97%) by BRI, and KIK/KMKP.
KEB accounts for the majority of loans insured, but KIK/KMKP is now the
larger program by value (Table 1). ASKRINDO is also looking for other lines
of credit-insurance business.
3.        ASKRINDO insures against commercial risks, (but not political!
military ones) which make the borrower unable to repay. In theory, it will
not compensate for borrowers who are merely unwilling to repay. It there-
fore requires the banks to explain why each loan default has occurred;
however, as ASKRINDO has few staff and has no offices outside of Jakarta, it
must eventually take the handling banks' word for the borrowers' insolvency.
A bank may claim for compensation from ASKRINDO three months after the final
due date of the loan, or three months after the borrower is in default on his
repayments, provided the bank can demonstrate to ASKRINDO's satisfaction that
there is little prospect of any further repayments, so that the entire loan
is being called in. The system has functioned smoothly for short-term loans,
but has created difficulties with the medium-term KIK loans. Understandably,
ASKRINDO does not wish to pay out when the bank still stands a good chance of
collecting, as this would remove most of the incentive to collect. On the
other hand, if a 5-year KIK loan goes sour in year 1 or 2, the handling bank
doesn't want to have to wait 3 or 4 years to collect from ASKRINDO. The
mutually satisfactory solution has yet to be found.
4.        ASKRINDO insures 75% of KIK/KMKP loans./l  For example, on a
loan of Rp 2 million, if Rp 1 million (including interest) were in default,
ASKRINDO would pay Rp 750,000. If Rp 2.5 million (including interest)
/I Loans to cooperatives are insured 75% by the Cooperative Insurance Corpora-
tion (LJKK), and ASKRINDO insures 75% of the remaining 25%.



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
were in default, ASKRINDO would pay out Rp 1.5 million, as that is its maxi-
mum liability on the loan. ASKRINDO would then be entitled to all the
proceeds of execution of the debtor's collateral or other property. In
practice, recoveries are low, as ASKRINDO itself can do nothing except turn
the accounts over to the Government's quasi-judicial collection agency, PUPN,
whose limited staff are occupied mainly with efforts to collect much larger
loans.
5.        For general KIK/KMKP loans, the 75% insurance cover is automatic.
For KIK/KMKP "massal" programs, ASKRINDO evaluates each program before agreeing
to insure. In the cases of BRI's KMKP cattle fattening loans and KIK fishing
boat loans, ASKRINDO has required "extended coverage", i.e. the borrower's
cattle or boats must 'se insured with ASKRINDO (the fee is added to the loan
amount, and paid to ASkITNDO directly by BRI), as a condition of ASKRINDO
providing credit insurance. (The net effect is simply a higher insurance
fee for these risky operations, with the borrowers paying a portion of it).
6.        For KIK/KMKP, ASKRi 'ND0's fee is 3%, of which 1.5% is paid by BI
and 1.5% by the handling bank. So far, no loans of longer than 5 years have
been insured, but ASKRINDO wo-Ld be willing to insure them with proportion-
ately higher premiums (i.e. about 6% for 10 year loans). The 3% fee was set
based on the estimated ability to pay of the handling banks. It is not
possible to make any good projections based on claims paid and amounts
subsequently recovered by ASKRINDOo Payment of claims on KIK/KMKP has just
begun to reach significant levels: Rp 91.1 million has been paid in the
first two months of 1977 (compared to Rp 129.4 million in all of 1976).
For KIK/KMKP, recoveries have been only 3% of claims paid, to date; for KEB
they have been about 16% (Table 2).
7.        ASKRINDO has an authorized capital of Rp 5 billion (US$12.0 million),
of which Rp 2.2 billion (US$5.3 million) has been paid in. It had accumulated
a further Rp 5.9 billion of reserves, as of the end of 1976. On the other hand,
its contingent liabilities for KIK/KMKP alone were probably Rp 50-60 billion.
BI and Government have agreed in principle to increase the paid-in capital,
eventually up to the level authorized. This would provide further cushion,
and give the handling banks greater confidence in ASKRINDO, and is therefore
definitely warranted.
8.        Although the credit insurance system  has helped induce a high
level of KIK/KMKP lending, it has not given collateral-deficient enterprises
much access to KIK/KMKP credits, as BI requires that the banks take collateral
equal to at least 100% of loan amount, and the banks typically require much
more. Furthermore, there is some danger that the handling banks, being
insured against 75% of their losses, have less incentive to give adequate atten-
tion to supervision and collection efforts on KIK/KMKP. To discourage the
handling banks from submitting claims on loans that they might, with additional
effort, still collect, ASKRINDO has established drawn-out procedures for
settling claims, with the unfortunate side effect of wasting substantial time
of key banking personnel. Finally, instead of spreading the risk, the system
concentrates the risk of high KIK/KMKP default on a relatively small institu-
tion (ASKRINDO) which is much more vulnerable to insolvency than the handling



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
banks themselves. The danger is particularly great because the fee paid to
ASKRINDO (3% of the loan amount) appears to be quite inadequate, given the
inherent riskiness of small-enterprise financing and the difficulties of
foreclosing on collateral in Indonesia. Government has agreed to guarantee
any payments due from ASKRINDO, but recourse to this last resort would mean
that the system had failed to be self-sustaining. Under the project, by
June 30, 1978, a major re-.Iew of the credit-insurance system for KIK/KMKP
(Annex 6) would be undertaken by the Government, with the Association's
agreement. The study would consider both improvements in the present system
and alternative arrangements, including self-insurance by the handling banks
(with consequently higher interest margins for them). The study team's
report would be submitted to the Association for comment by December 31,
1978. Draft terms of reference are in Annex 6.



-100 -
ANNLE  5
Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit Insurance Approved by ASKRINDO
Number of Debtors                       Loan Amount Approved /a
(Rp million)
Calendar Year      KIK/KMXP       KEB /b   Total          KIK/KNKP         KEB /b        Total
1971                               61          61                           12.9          12.9
1972                              589         589              -           216.6         216.6
1973                  -         4,660       4,660              -         1,388.3       1,388.3
1974               11,995      77,572      89,567         17,438.2      18,843.7      36,281.9
1975               17,863      96,079    113,942          23,048.3      20,860.3      43,908.6
1976               41,367      98,160    139,527          52,914.0      18,102.2      71,016.2
Total         71,225    277,121    348,346           93,400.5      59,424.0    152,824.5
la  ASKRINDO's liability is limited to 75% of the loan amounts approved.
'.. Kredit Exploitasi Biasa (general commercial credit).
Source: ASKRINDO



- 101 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit Insurance Claims Paid and Amounts Recovered by ASKRINDO
(Rp million)
KIK/KMKP                   KEB                        Total
Calendar         Claims   Recoveries       Claims   Recoveries        Claims   Recoveries
Year            Paid                      Paid                       Paid
1973                -         -             13.8         -             13.8         -
1974                -         -             13.6        2.0            13.6        2.0
1975               5.2        -             12.6        4.6            17.8        4.6
1976             129.4       3.2           179.9       24.8           309.3       28.0
Jan-Feb 1977      91.1        3.3            38.8       8.7           129.9       12.0
Total      225.7        6.5           258.7       40.1           484.3       46.6
Source: ASKRINDO



- 102 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets of ASKRINDO as of
December 31, 1975 and 1976
(Rp billion)
1975            1976
Assets
Fixed assets                          0.18            0.28
Cash and demand deposits              0.35            0.50
Term deposits                         4.52            6.60
Accounts receivable                   0.70             1.66-
Intangibles                           0.07            0.06
Miscellaneous                         0.12             0.31
5.94            9.42
Liabilities
Paid-in capital                       2.21            2.21
Statitory reserves:
Credit insurance                    1.00            2.32
Re-insurance                        0.32            0.79
Technical reserves:
Credit insurance                    0.36            0.75
Re-insurance                        0.40            0.61
Reserves for tax liabilities          0.18            0.27
Long-term debt                        0.26            0.93
Other                                  -              0.07
Unallocated profits after tax         1.22            1.47
5.94            9.42
Source: ASKRINDO



- 103 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Income Statement of ASKRINDO
for Calendar Year 1976
(Rp million)
Income
Credit insurance:
Premiums                                     1,872.5
Recoveries                                      28.0
Claims paid                                 (309.3)
Allocation to statutory reserves            (936.2)/a
Allocation to technical reserves            (393.8)/b
Net credit-insurance income                             261.2
Re-insurance:
Premiums, commissions and claims earned   2,715.6
Premiums, commissions and claims paid    (2,277.4)
Allocation to technical reserves              (210.5)
Net re-insurance income                                  227.6
Interest on deposits                                        1,346.2
Miscellaneous                                                  18.7
Total income                                          1,853.8
Expenses
Salaries                                                         98.3
Other personnel expenses                                         52.4
Other operating expenses                                         86.4
Depreciation                                                     53.2
Miscellaneous                                                     1.2
Total expenses before tax                               291.4
Net income before tax                                         1,562.4
Company tax                                                      95.8
Net income after tax                                          1,466.6
/a 50% of total premiums paid.
/b 40% of the increase in premiums over 1975.
Source: ASKRINDO



- 104 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Credit-Insurance Study
1.        Under the project, a comprehensive study would be undertaken of
both the present system of credit insurance for KIK/KMKP lending with
ASKRINDO, and of alternative arrangements, including self-insurance by the
handling banks. The study would be carried out by the Government (GOI) with
the assistance of a suitable international firm with experience in credit
insurance or related activities. Interested organizations would be asked to
submit detailed proposals to GOI, which would, with the agreement of the
Association, select the best proposal. It is estimated that the study would
require three people for about six months. The study team's report would be
submitted to the Association for comment within nine months after project
effectiveness.
2.        The study would have four main parts:
(a) an evaluation of ASKRINDO's financial position and prospects, and
proposals for any changes in the fees it charges, especially on
KIK/KMKP lending, that may be needed to insure its solvency;
(b) a proposal for revising ASKRINDO's accounting and management-
information systems to provide a better basis for future evalua-
tions of its financial position and prospects;
(c) an examination of ASKRINDO's organization, staffing and proced-
ures, especially as related to the settlement of claims; and
(d) a consideration of alternative arrangements for inducing KIK/KMKP
lending, assisting collateral-deficient entrepreneurs, and protecting
the handling banks against inordinate risks under KIK/KMKP.
3.        The main unknown in ASKRINDO's financial position, as regards its
credit-insurance operations, is, of course, the claims that will result from
default on insured loans. For the short-term commercial loans granted under
Kredit Exploitasi Biasa (KEB), there should already be enough data to project
future claims with some confidence. For KIK/KMKP the position is more compli-
cated, because only a small percentage of the insured loans have matured fully
yet; however, by tracing through the earlier shorter-term loans made, prelimin-
ary estimates of the default rate could be made. Once it has estimated the
default rates, the study team should make overall financial projections for
ASKRINDO, and then come up with proposals to ensure ASKRINDO's financial
soundness. Among the elements to be considered are increases in the one-time
fee charged (now 3% for KIK/KMKP), introduction of annual charges, increases
in ASKRINDO's paid-in capital, and changes in ASKRINDO's reserves policy.



- 105 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        As a by-product of their evaluation of ASKRINDO's financial situ-
ation, the study team would come up with proposals to revise its accounting
and management information systems. In particular, the new system should
enable ASKRINDO to know its contingent liabilities, by program, at any given
time, to follow the loans made in each year, by program, to see what the
default rates are and how they are changing, and, by receiving and analyzing
collections data from the handling banks, to have advance warning of changes
in default rates.
5.        In an effort to ensure that the handling banks make adequate efforts
to collect overdue loans before claiming from their insurance, ASKRINDO re-
quires the banks, on a loan-by-loan basis, to explain why the loans are un-
collectable. However, as ASKRINDO has few staff to check upon the claims, and
has no offices outside of Jakarta, this procedure may do little besides occupying
considerable management and staff time in both the handling banks and ASKRINDO.
The consultants should examine whether the procedures followed are appropriate,
and consider whether staff reorganization or expansion, including the establish-
ment of branches, are justified for ASKRINDO.
6.        In view of the fact that the present credit-insurance system
concentrates the risk in a small institution (ASKRINDO), reduces the incen-
tive of the handling banks to keep defaults low, and does little to help
collateral-deficient enterprises (see Annex 5), alternatives to the pres-
ent system should be considered. One such alternative would be giving the
handling banks a larger interest margin, so that they could be self-insured;
since KIK/KMKP is a relatively small part of their portfolios, this should
not pose a major risk to the banks' financial positions.
7.        The study team should consist of an economist, an actuary/account-
ant, and a management expert, all experienced in insurance and familiar with
credit operations. They would spend about 4 months in Indonesia, and 2 months
analyzing their data and writing up their report and recommendations.



- 106 -
ANNEX 7
Page i
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institution for the Development
of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI)
1.        The Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (Lembaga
Pendidikan Perbankan Indonesia - LPPI) was set up in April 1970 by Bank
Indonesia (BI) with the participation of the state commercial banks, the state
savings banks, BAPINDO and the association of private national banks, mainly
to organize training courses in banking. LPPI conducts one to four week
courses for various categories of bank staff, primarily at the supervisory
level. The teaching staff is provided mainly by the participating banks, on
two-year assignments. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) assisted substan-
tially in the early development of LPPI, but its support has been phasing
out, and the last of its original four advisors will leave in November, 1977.
2.        BI has played the major role in providing financial and adminis-
trative support and policy direction to LPPI. The General Body, which is
chaired by a BI Managing Director and includes representatives of the other
sponsoring banks, is in overall supervision of LPPI, and appoints the
Supervisory Board which organizes and regulates LPPI's activities. LPPI's
day-to-day functioning is directed by the Executive Board, which consists of
the Chairman, the Treasurer, and one other member. BI recently assumed
complete responsibility for financing LPPI;/1 however, the other banks
continue to be represented in its management.
Courses
3.        The wide range of courses offered by LPPI is shown in Appendix 1.
In addition, one-day conferences are held by LPPI from time to time. Courses
are held as and when the participating banks express a need for training in a
particular area, and not according to any fixed schedule. Accordingly, LPPI
draws up its curriculum on a half-yearly basis, in consultation with the
banks. It then allots a specific number of seats in each course to each
bank, and provides guidelines on the basis of which each bank selects its own
participants, who are not screened by LPPI. Of the 2,114 staff who attended
courses at LPPI from 1970 to 1975, 77% were from state banks, 12% from
private national banks and 11% from regional development banks. The courses
are taught in Indonesian. Each course is normally limited to 24 students,
and usually no more than 2 courses are taught simultaneously, due to faculty
and facility constraints.
Faculty
4.        LPPI's philosophy is that its training should be done by experienced
bankers. Accordingly, LPPI's faculty consists primarily of about eight
/1 Previously, it provided 75% of the finance, and the other banks shared
the remainder.



- 107 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
senior officiLZs of the state banks, seconded for two years apiece. Although
this policy has assured a steady stream of experienced practitioners, it has
had several major disadvantages:
(a) No core faculty has been developed, and the institution-building
efforts of the IMF have therefore produced only limited long-term
benefits;
(b) People with bright prospects in the banks have not generally been
seconded, and a tour at LPPI has not been seen as helpful in career
development, so that LPPI has sometimes had to accept whomever it
could get; and
(c) The faculty has generally had only limited teaching expertise,
and few fresh ideas to instill.
Teaching Methods
5.        LPPI faculty teach mainly by the lecture-cum-discussion method,
although programmed learning and case studies are also used, with classes
broken up into smaller discussion groups for exercises and case studies. Each
course is generally taught by two faculty members, one in his second year at
LPPI and one in his first, to maintain continuity. Frequent use is made of
guest lecturers from the banks, Government, etc. The second-year instructor
is normally the "lead" lecturer who formulates the course program, coordinates
all its activities, and is expected to have a close relationship with the
participants. LPPI has not yet prescribed text books for any of its courses.
Thus, the teaching material mainly consists of notes on each topic prepared
by the faculty members or guest lecturers concerned, plus notes, case studies
and exercises, developed by the IMF consultants. The participants are asked
to evaluate the courses and suggest improvements. Although these evaluation
reports are reviewed at the closing session of each course, they appear to
have little impact. There is no follow-up of participants to see what effect
the courses have had on them or their careers.
Physical Facilities
6.        All courses conducted by LPPI are residential ones.  LPPI's spacious
4-ha campus at Kebayoran Baru in Jakarta contains 4 classrooms, 3 small group
discussion rooms, a meeting hall, a library, 2 refreshment rooms and adminis-
trative offices, plus hostels which accommodate 200 persons. LPPI frequently
rents out lecture rooms and hostel accommodation to the member banks to enable
them to conduct their own training classes. There is also an English-language
laboratory on the campus, available for LPPI's use.
Conclusions and Recommendations
7.        The training needs of Indonesia's banks are quite pressing, and
LPPI has a key role to play in meeting them, especially as the handling banks'
own training departments are generally not able to provide adequate training
for specialized and for middle-management staff. In order to fulfill this



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
role, LPPI should build up a permanent faculty, which should still be supple-
mented by people seconded from the banks, but mainly on a course-by-course
basis, so that more specialized instructors could be provided, and the
secondment would not interfere with the bankers' own career development;
in fact, the banks might agree that teaching a course at LPPI would be a
prerequisite for promotion to certain senior positions. BI would have to
take the lead in building up a permanent faculty composed both of suitable
senior banking staff and of academics. Once LPPI has a permanent faculty, it
could give greater attention to building up permanent teaching material for
its courses, and could explore giving assistance to the banks in conducting
their own staff training programs.
8.        BI is aware of LPPI's shortcomings, and BI's top management is now
seriously considering means of strengthening it. The provision of two Small
Enterprise Credit Training Experts under the SEDP (Annex 8) would be one
important step in that direction, and the benefits of this assistance would
be enhanced by the recruitment of a permanent LPPI faculty member to work
with, learn from and carry on the work of the consultants.



- 109 -
ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of the Main Courses Conducted by LpPI:
No. of Times
Course Title            Contents                       Participants          Duration  Given, 1970-75
Courses on Credit
1.  Credit Managers   Loan appraisal,                Credit, department   3 weeks             9
Course             supervision &                 heads
control
2.  Industrial         Appraisal of term              Branch managers       2 weeks           8
Finance            loans to industry             & officers dealing
with industrial
term loans
3.  Development        Development banking            Senior staff           2 weeks          2
Banking            & related activities           (e.g. senior
branch managers)
4.  Credit             Business accounting,           KIK/RcMKP credit      4 weeks           5
Facilities for    analysis of financial          officers
Small Entre-       statements, loan appraisal,
preneurs           documentation & valuation,
management & supervision;
problems of KIK/KMKP
S.  Rural Lending      Appraisal of rural             Credit officers          -              1 /a
loans, especially for
agro-industries, dairy
& poultry
Courses on Other Banking Operations
6.  Audit, Inspec-    Basic accounting;               Audit Team
tion & Control    head office and                leaders & their        3 weeks          12
branch auditing               subordinates
7.  Advanced Audit    Practical approaches           Audit Team leaders   4 weeks             2
Inspection &       towards problems of           & their immediate
Control            audit & examination of        subordinates
loans & advances
B.  International      Documentation of               Foreign Dept.
Banking            import & export               staff                  3 weeks           9
transactions
9.  International      Principles of foreign          Assistant Managing
Trade & Finance   trade, balance of              Directors and          3 weeks           I /a
payments, international       branch managers
money markets, gold, and
exchange rates
10.  Money Markets      Inter-bank & short-term        Investment
money market dealings:        Department staff       I week           2
practical simulation
11.  Mortgage Banking  Legal aspects relating to   Officers in charge   I week                 I
the creation of mortgages   of mortgage lending
Human Relations and Development Courses
12.  Trainers Course   Methods of instruction          Trainers giving        2 weeks          3
in-bank training
13.  Branch Managers   Motivation towards              Present and            4 weeks          9
Course             personal & corporate          potential branch
goals; self-develop-          managers
ment & leadership
14.  Supervisors        Dealing with                   First-line
Course             customers                     supervisors            3 weeks          14
15.  Communication      Skills in communication,    Officials report-
& Reporting        report writing &              ing to foreign         2 weeks           I
financial reporting           experts/directors
& internatioonal
bodies
La First given in 1976.



- 1 10 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Small-Enterprise Credit
Training Experts
1.        The two Small-Enterprise Credit Training Experts would plan, design
and help implement the classroom training program of the project. The
consultants would be attached to the Institution for the Development of
Banking in Indonesia (LPPI - see Annex 7), and would work with a small-
enterprise credit instructor, to be recruited as permanent LPPI staff. The
consultants would be recruited for 2 years with the possibility of extension
for one additional year by mutual agreement.
2.        By June 1, 1978, the two consultants, in consultation with LPPI,
BI's Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) and the handling banks, would
prepare a detailed plan for training of loan officers and supervisors
involved in the project. This plan would cover the number of people at each
level to be trained, and the type, duration, location (Jakarta or the
provinces, LPPI or the handling banks) and schedule of the training. (Either
as part of this plan or at a later date, the consultants would also plan a
more limited training program for handling bank staff dealing with KIK/KMKP
outside of the three project provinces.) It is estimated that about 500 loan
officers would handle KIK/KMKP in the approximately 200 branches in the three
project provinces, and training would also be needed for their 200 credit-
department heads and 200 branch managers (or assistant branch managers), and
perhaps 50-70 regional/head office staff. Some of this training would be
given at LPPI, and the remainder by the handling banks' own training units.
In general, LPPI would train the higher-level staff in the broader issues
underlying the KIK/KMKP program and the project, whereas the handling banks
themselves would provide all of the classroom training for the loan officers
and would also train the supervisory staff in matters specific to each bank,
such as the bank's own procedures manual for KIK/KMKP loans, and problems of
the sector in which the bank has primary responsibility.
3.        The second major task of the consultants would be to design, prepare,
and test the small-scale enterprise (SSE) credit courses to be given at LPPI,
and to assist the handling banks in doing the same for their own SSE courses.
It is anticipated that LPPI would give a six- to eight-week course for the
credit-department heads, and abbreviated (three to four weeks) versions for
the branch managers and regional/head office staff. In developing these



- ill -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
courses, the consultants could build upon a one-month course on Credit Faci-
lities for Small Entrepreneurs given by LPPI already (see Appendix 1 for the
course outline), primarily to credit-department heads. However, the new courses
would need to be focussed much more on the specific issues and practical pro-
blems arising in term credit for SSEs, including techniques of identification,
appraisal, disbursement, supervision, and collection of loans, and the
financial, managerial and marketing problems of KIK/KMKP borrowers./l Use
should be made of case studies of actual KIK/KMKP loans.
4.        As regards the SSE-credit training to be given by the handling
banks, the consultants would have primary responsibility for preparing
the sections which would be common to all the banks, and would advise the
banks on those subjects unique to each bank, perhaps by designing a model
course for the handling banks. The consultants would then train the trainers
for these courses, including showing them how to modify the courses to meet
each bank's specific sectoral priorities, and to be in accordance with its
own procedures manual for small term loans, which would be one of the main
bases of the instruction.
5.        Implementation of the courses would be done by LPPI and the
handling banks, with assistance and coordination by the consultants.
Considerable use would be made of outside lecturers from Government
agencies concerned with SSEs (e.g. BIPIK and Bank Indonesia, including
the other project consultants). It is expected that the handling banks
would give about two months' training to loan officers and two to three
weeks to credit department heads (who would also have received training
at LPPI).
6.        One of the two consultants would initially have responsibility
for the overall planning of the training program, and the other for starting
preparation of the courses. Afterwards they would work together on course
preparation and training the trainers. At a late stage, one would give
attention primarily to the courses to be given at LPPI, and the other would
advise and assist the handling banks in their SSE-credit courses.
7.        Throughout, close coordination would be maintained with the
Training Specialist to be recruited for BRI under the proposed Rural
Credit Project, whose job would be to develop BRI's overall term-lending
training program. Considerable savings would be achieved by having the
needs of both projects met by the same BRI courses.
/1 The German agency GTZ, which is to provide the two experts, has also
developed text books for 3, one to three month courses on (i) proj-
ect evaluation, (ii) credit for small businesses and (iii) development
banking. Material from these text books could also be incorporated
into the courses.



- 112 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        In addition to the regular courses, the consultants would design
and help give a series of seminars on the KIK/KMKP program and the project,
for senior and middle management of BI, the handling banks, BIPIK, the agri-
cultural extension services, etc. Seminars would be given in Padang, Surabaya
and Semarang, as well as Jakarta, and utilize PPMU consultants and counter-
parts. Seminars might also be held for the staff implementing the project,
after they have had their training course and gained further practical experi-
ence, to exchange experiences.



- 113 -
ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline      PPI's Present Course
"Credit Facilities for Small Entrepreneurs"
Objectives
To increase the knowledge and skills of banks' officers who are now
or soon will be charged with the task of granting KIK and KMKP loans to small
scale entrepreneurs.
Outline
1. Banking English
- Structure of the Indonesian banking system
- Currency and other exchanges
- Opening of giro or checking accounts
- Opening of business accounts
- Time deposits and savings accounts
- Credit granting
2.  Financial Accounting
- Basic principles of accounting
- Rules for double entry and recording of transactions
- Trial balance
- Measuring business income
- Preparation of profit and loss account
- Balance sheet
- Preparation of balance sheet
- Cash budgeting
- Measuring, planning and controlling inventories
- Principles and methods of depreciation
- Problems and exercises
3. Analysis and Interpretation of Balance Sheet
- Analysis of the balance sheet
- Spreading the balance sheet
- Analysis of profit and loss statement
- Ratios
- Trend and common size statements
- Case studies and exercises
4. Granting of Credit Facilities
- Interviewing techniques for credit
- Problems of small loans
- Loan appraisal



- 114 -
ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
- Principles of lending
- Technical feasibility
- Economic and commercial feasibility
- Financial feasibility
(a) Needs of a project
(b) Production costs and break even point
(c) Cash flow position
(d) Return on investment
- Case studies
- Mercantile and manufacturing corporations - granting of credit
- Supervision of loans; detection and action on bad debts
5. Documentation
- Hypothecation of securities
- Valuation of securities
6. Management
- Forms of business organizations
- Problems of management
- Communication and report writing
- Code and ethics of banking
- Management of funds
7. Others
- Department of Industry and small entrepreneurs
-  Bank Indonesia regulations (including KIK and KMKP)
- P.T. Bahana and its role in the banking system
- ASKRINDO and its role in the banking system
- Visit to project
- Films
8. Syndicate Assignment
Problems of small loans - suggestions as to solutions



- 115 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference, Organization and Operational Guidelines
for the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU)
SEDP Management
1.        The Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) would have overall
responsibility for the implementation of the SEDP. Apart from the project
activities it would carry out itself, the CPMU would be responsible for
coordinating the efforts of other units of Bank Indonesia (BI) engaged in
KIK/KMKP program implementation. It would also coordinate BI's project
activities in relation to P.T. Askrindo, LPPI and the handling banks. Finally,
it would advise BI's Board of Managing Directors on policy and other issues
concerning the overall KIK/KMKP program.
2.        The CPMU would be established as a separate unit in BI's Credit
Department and be supervised by two directors, the first being the Managing
Director of the Credit Planning and Supervision Department, and the second,
the Managing Director of the Credit Department. The CPMU would be headed by
a full-time Project Manager, assisted by one or more Assistant Project
Managers and two or three professional staff.
Decentralized Approach
3.        While establishing the CPMU as the focal point for project responsi-
bility, the SEDP management concept would reflect a decentralized approach,
i.e. the various divisions or sections at BI's head office which are already
involved in one or more aspects of KIK/KMKP would continue their present
project activities. The CPMU would be fully responsible for managing the
KIK/KMKP program in East Java, Central Java and West Sumatra, but in practice
effective implementation would rely on close cooperation with BI divisions-
/sections concerned. Supervision of the CPMU by the two above-mentioned
Managing Directors would maintain a clear distinction (a) between the
involvement of those divisions/sections in SEDP and their other involvement
in the KIK/KMKP program (outside SEDP), and (b) between the managerial and
coordination responsibilities of the CPMU under SEDP and CPMU's advisory
position as regards the KIK/KMKP program as a whole.
4.        The divisions in BI's head office which are at present already
involved in one or more aspects of the KIK/KMKP program are the following:



- 116 -
ANNEX e
Page 2
(a) the Production Loan Division in the Credit Department, which
comprises a KIK/KMKP section in charge of the day-to-day operations
of the KIK/KMKP program. Its activities include issuing circular
letters to handling banks on KIK/KMKP procedures, supervising
BI branch office units which examine handling banks' KIK/KMKP
rediscount applications, monitoring program performance, compiling
data, etc.
(b) two divisions in the Credit Planning and Supervision Department:
(i) the Credit Planning Division, which performs a variety of
tasks, including the annual planning, allocation and monitoring
of net assets and credit ceilings to commercial banks,
monitoring operations of P.T. Askrindo, and operating a
nationwide bank credit information system, containing data on
borrowers' credit history and collateral.
(ii) the Credit Investigation Division i.a. in charge of a rela-
tively recent KIK/KMKP credit supervision program mainly
carried out in cooperation with the national organization of
retired civil servants.
(c) the Bank Supervision and Development Department, presently respon-
sible for the comprehensive efforts of the Bank Study Team (BST) in
inter alia formulating and integrating, in close cooperation with
joint study-groups of the handling banks, the internal credit
procedures of the state banks. Credit procedure manuals are being
prepared; these manuals will also deal with internal KIK/KMKP
procedures.
(d) the Economics and Statistics Department comprising: the Division
for Monetary Affairs and the Division for General Economic Affairs,
which, in the framework of policy studies and general research on
aspects of monetary development and conditions/priorities of
sectoral and regional development, would be involved in studies on
small credit.
(e) the Mechanization Desk in the Administration and Organization
Department, i.a. in charge of programming and processing computer
data concerning KIK/KMKP credits.
CPMU Tasks, Responsibilities and Organization
5.        Within the organizational structure of the Credit Department, the
CPMJ would concentrate on the KIK/KMKP program in the three SEDP provinces
and related project activities, such as consultancy to P.T. Askrindo and



- 117 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
LPPI. The relatively modest staffing of the CPMU reflects the proposed
decentralized approach while ensuring appropriate SEDP management. The
effectiveness of the CPMU would therefore greatly depend upon its ability to
cooperate and initiate or stimulate actions and innovations by the BI divisions
concerned.
6.        To enhance the functions of the CPMU, three advisors - two foreign
(already appointed) and one preferably Indonesian (to be appointed) - will be
assigned to the CPMU with the following responsibilities:
(a) advice concerning the management and coordination of SEDP;
(b) assistance in developing program-lending and other group-development
schemes (e.g. village-programs, subcontracting, hire-purchase schemes,
etc.) in the three project provinces; and
(c) advice concerning the further development and implementation of the
KIK/KMKP program, and other small-credit programs.
These three advisors would work with various divisions at BI head office,
operate as a team and report to the Directors of the CPMU through the
Project Manager.
7.        The management, coordination and advisory functions of the CPMU
would comprise:
(a) the recruitment and supervision of consultants for the Provincial
Project Management Units (PPMUs), P.T. Askrindo and LPPI;
(b) coordination of planning and implementation of the three PPMU work
programs with the work of the handling banks, LPPI and P.T. Askrindo;
(c) coordination and assistance in developing program-lending and
other group-development schemes to be carried out at BI head office
in cooperation with the PPMUs;
(d) advice to BI's Board of Managing Directors, based on PPMU
recommendations, on:
(i) activities of BI's head office divisions involved in:
(1) developing and formulating KIK/KMKP policies, procedures
and regulations (e.g. loan size/maturity limits, interest
spreads, eligibility criteria, etc.);
(2) introducing at the handling banks, standardized banking
practices, procedures and systems for KIK and KMKP;



- 118 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4
(3) collecting and analyzing data concerning the KIK/KMKP
program;
(ii)  matters affecting small enterprises and pertaining to national
policies, sectoral priorities, special studies, taxation,
licensing etc., based on PPMU reports, internal research and
other sources; and
(iii)  policies and procedures for other small-credit term-lending
programs, particularly the proposed Rural Credit Project
(RCP).
(e)  recruitment and supervision of ad-hoc short-term consultancy for
studies, surveys, etc., to be carried out from time to time under
SEDP;
(f)  preparation of Annual Review and Planning Papers for the Bank
Group;
(g)  review of field team reports and preparation of periodic progress
reports for the Directors of the CPMU and the Bank Group;
(h)  preparation of withdrawal requests from the IDA credit account, to
reimburse BI for project expenditures;
(i)  ensuring that terms of the project legal documents and agreed
minutes of negotiations are adhered to;
(j)  liaison with the consultants, PPMU-management and staff in expediting
the project work program; and
(k)  staff training in central small-credit program management.
Scope of Further CPMU Activities
8.        In the beginning, it is expected that CPMU activities would
primarily center around SEDP management and coordination. However, depending
on the circumstances and priorities established by BI's Board, the CPMU may
be involved either directly or indirectly in the following activities:
(a) consulting on and arranging for informal cooperation, on a case-by-
case basis, with Government and private institutions involved in
developing small scale enterprises (SSEs);



- 119 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5
(b) coordinating policies and programs aimed at SSE development and
implemented by commercial and development banks;
(c) coordinating research and statistical analysis on SSE development;
(d) preparing prelending studies for particular regions and economic
sectors;
(e) preparing, supervising and monitoring technical assistance programs
executed through the state banking system; and
(f) preparing policies and programs for SSE development.
Organization and Approach for Program Lending Development
9.        A new section would be established in the Production Loan Division
of the Credit Department to coordinate and assist - in close cooperation with
the CPMU - in planning and developing program lending and other KIK/KMKP
development activities of the PPMUs. This section would have two functions:
nonagricultural and agricultural program lending development. For each
function a BI economist would be appointed, assisted by one or two Indonesian
professional staff. To obtain field experience, each staff member would be
seconded, on a rotating basis, to a PPMU for about one year. In addition,
this section would be assisted by the CPMU advisory team. The work of this
section would be carried out in close cooperation with the head offices of
the handling banks - in particular BRI and BNI'46. Activities would be
specifically directed to assisting the PPMUs in their different program
development tasks under SEDP and RCP, and could later provide models for
program development on other provinces.
10.       Program lending development in the three project provinces would
consist of identifying, together with PPMUs and handling banks, possibil-
ities for providing credit to homogeneous groups of small enterprises at
the sub-regional level, and preparing operationally feasible work programs to
extend finance to such groups. In addition, other development schemes would
be prepared such as lending programs for a variety of small enterprises
in individual villages; sub-contracting to SSEs by larger companies; hire-
purchase schemes for equipment financing; developing alternative trade
channels in cases where SSE-entrepreneurs confront cartel-like organizations
on the part of raw material suppliers or customers; establishing village
industries consonant with existing village development schemes; establishing
larger and more viable entities in cases where SSE entrepreneurs are willing
to join efforts etc. The program development activities would also comprise
the preparation of profile studies for those particular commodities which
appear to be financed on a relatively large scale under KIK/KMKP in the three
provinces.
11.       Project evaluation could be substantially improved and the time
required to evaluate individual projects shortened, if profile studies are
made available to the handling banks within and outside, the project



- 120 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6
provinces. At the same time such studies could become an important and
rapidly operational data source for the preparation of groups of similar
programs and other lending schemes.
Nonagricultural Program Lending Development
12.       The specific tasks and responsibilities of the section in charge
of developing nonagricultural program lending for small enterprises in the
three Project provinces would include the following:
(a) for the important subsectors under KIK/KMKP in a particular region
or subregion: examining together with the PPMUs and program
development officers from the handling banks' head offices, the
outstanding loan portfolio and conducting on that basis small and
simple surveys of existing and potential borrowers to determine
whether the needs of the various borrowers are similar enough to
warrant the development of group approaches for specific categories
of small enterprises within those subsectors;
(b) for each subsectoral category so identified in a specific region,
designing concrete group lending programs. Particular attention
would be paid to group lending where adequate sources of non-
financial assistance are available, in which case cooperation with
such services would be sought. Substantial outside technical and
economic expertise (from domestic or international sources) might
be needed for this type activity;
(c) preparing along the same simple survey method described above
lending programs for villages i.e. not necessarily monosectoral;
preparing sub-contracting arrangements, hire-purchase schemes or
profile studies for particular commodities, etc.;
(d) based on the needs of particular subsectoral categories, or of
other development schemes, making recommendations on any necessary
changes in the terms and conditions (such as loan size and maturity
limits) of KIK or KMKP loans, priority categories for lending, and
annual lending programs for the categories, whenever appropriate;
(e) examining on the basis of surveys of potential borrowers, whether
small enterprise subsectors or villages in a particular region have
in fact been barred from access to the KIK/KMKP program and, if so,
proposing possible remedies;
(f) assisting the head offices of handling banks in establishing
and/or further developing program lending activities in the project
provinces through cooperation at the operational project lending
level;



- 121 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7
(g) assisting handling banks in their efforts to compile a comprehensive
list of adequate advisory services available regionally to small
entrepreneurs, and to disseminate this information to their branch
offices so that the latter can provide referral services 4o
borrowers;
(h)  for subsectors in which assistance can suitably be given inly on a
case-by-case basis, assessing the type of advice (financial,
record-keeping, technical, marketing) needed by small enterprises,
and proposing methods for providing the advice not presently
available;
(i) preparing recommendations for the Directors of CPMU on measures to
foster informal cooperation on a case-by-case basis with Government
and other institutions (in the project provinces) which are provid-
ing effective advisory services to small enterprises, and to
utilize ongoing international technical assistance and domestic
private sources of advisory services;
(j) advising BI's head office division(s) involved in consultations
with Government on policies affecting small scale enterprises
(e.g., tax incentives, registration requirements, Government
procurement policies).
Agricultural Program Lending Development
13.       The specific tasks and responsibilities of the section in charge of
developing agricultural program lending for small enterprises in the three
project provinces would include:
(a) examining KIK/KMKP agricultural lending presently undertaken by
BRI and other handling banks in the three project provinces;
(b) performing mutatis mutandis the same functions described in
paragraph 12 above, in respect of agricultural projects financed
under the KIK/KMKP program in the three provinces. In particular,
this section would be responsible for developing with the Program
Development Department of BRI's Planning Bureau (and similar units
of other handling banks operating in the agricultural sector)
categories for KIK/KMKP agricultural lending in specific sub-regions,
with a view to ensuring the economic viability of the projects
being financed, the suitability of the lending terms proposed, and
an improving performance of the banks involved, subject to the
availability of appropriate extension support from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture;
(c) developing, together with those in charge of nonagricultural program
development, lending programs for villages and/or sub-sectoral cate-
gories involved in the processing and marketing of agricultural
products (with a view to coordinating credits granted for processing
and marketing with those extended to finance production);



- 122 -
ANNEX 9
Page 8
(d)  getting involved in the development of program Icading under the
proposed RCP in the three proiect provinces0 Upon mutual agreement
between BI and BRI, the PPMUs could become involved In these
activities as well, provided appropriate cooper-anion and coordination
between field experts under SEDP a<<. RCP is ensui-d.
Development of Credit-Data Systems
14.       The ? oduction Loan Division in  Is Credit De-a. ment would, in
close cooperatic - with the Economics and Statistics Depa:r-Tent, continue its
present task of collecting, processing, and analyzing a wiJ6e variety of data
and statistics on the KIK/KMKP program. This work is carried out with the
assistance of a computer at the Mechanization Desk of the Administration and
Organization Department. However, BI feels that specific additional assign-
ments need to be undertaken under SEDP, related to data processing and
research. For this purpose, a senior official of BI would be nominated for a
period of 18 to 24 months to work full-time on the developnment of credit-data
systems.  He would be assisted by one or two full-time staff members, and
work closely together with the CPMU (and its team of three advisors).  This
senior BI official would be located In the Production Lo-.g, Division of the
Credit Department.  He would work closely with the Econor, cs and Statistics
Department, the Credit Planning Division and the handling banks. Although
this special assignment would initially be confined to K-K4KP credits, its
expansion to cover in due course tlhe collection and proces3ing of key informa-
tion on credits under the proposed IRP, is already envisagaos
15.       Specific tasks and resnonsibilities (under SEDIK in data collection,
processing and small-credit analysis would consist of the z:llowing:
(a)  establishing systems and procedures for collec-  g, processing
and evaluating data concerning:
(i )  contractual versus actual renayments, antd ---cears on credits
(first priority);
(ii)  approved, pending and rejected credit applications, and;
(iii)  disbursements and amounts outstanding  un-. credits.
(b)  further improving, where needed, exi-stlng sysLe=m and
procedures for collecting and proc --sina data o--utstanding
credits.  This would permit and suppor  the daea studies of the
Credit Planning Division, as mentioned  n para. 12
(c)  establishing a data-base which would ailo  reg;_   estimates of
the handling banks costs in implementing KTK/1RiKP. and preparing
short- and long-term forecasts on demand for smail credits, as
mentioned in para. 18;
(d)  assisting handling banks gradually improve their own KIK/KMKP
reporting systems - in particular concernirng key information - and
harmonizing these with BI's reportinrg systems.



- 123 -
ANNEX 9
Page 9
(e) assisting in the preparation of sample studies to estimate the
impact of the KIK/KMKP program in terms of output, rates of return
on investment, costs of jobs created, eimployment and, if possible,
income distribution.
Development of Procedures
16.       The Bank Study team (BST) in the Bank Supervision Department is
closely cooperating with joint working groups of each of the state banks to
complete the initial phase of its work plan: a full recording and integration
of internal credits procedures (in the form of comprehensive credit systems
and procedures manuals for each of the state banks). These manuals will also
comprise existing internal KIK/KMKP procedures.
17.       Since this initial phase is limited to a selection of the most
suitable procedures, BI feels the need to arrange for special follow-up
efforts to commence the lengthy process of simplifying, rationalizing and
harmonizing these manuals, in cooperation with each of the banks concerned.
Under SEDP, the PPMUs would be assigned the task of recommending changes
in handling banks KIK/KMKP procedures. To arrange for an effective follow-up
to these recommendations, a senior official of Bank Indonesia would be
appointed, to work under direct supervision of the Directors of the CPMU. He
would be located in the Bank Supervision Department and work closely with the
BST and PPMUs. Furthermore, he would coordinate closely with CPMU staff
and advisors, the Production Loan Division and the special staff working on
the development of credit data systems. The tasks and responsibilities of
the special staff working on KIK/KMKP procedures would comprise the following:
(a)  working with the handling banks and PPMU's in finding ways to
simplify KIK/KMKP loan approval procedures (of both the handling
banks and BI itself), to reduce costs, accelerate loan approval and
increase the number of loans each loan officer can handle. In
particular, guidelines would be developed on the extent of investi-
gation required for different sizes and categories of loans;
(b) working with the BI provincial offices and the handling banks to
help ensure that consistent procedures are used on KIK/KMKP loans
within and between banks, in accordance with the procedure manuais
written by the handling banks in cooperation with BI's Bank Study
Team;           WI
(c) working with the PPMUs and the handling banks in improving appraisal
standards and disbursement control, increasing loan supervision,
and tightening billing and collection procedures, to reduce KIK/KMKP
arrears;
(d) working with the PPMUs and the handling banks to develop collateral
requirements for KIK/KMKP that provide sufficient protection to the
banks without being unduly restrictive;



- 124 -
ANNEX 9
Page 10
(e)  assisting the Credit Planning Division in carrying out regular
estimates of costs to handling banks in participating in the
KIK/KMKP program.
Additional Small-Credit Planning Functions
18.       The Credit Planning Division is expected to develop its capabilities
to gradually encompass various additional small-credit planning functions
(together with CPMU, the special officer of BI in charge of credit data
systems development and other divisions at BI's head office), such as carrying
out studies on qualitative and quantitative data, making regular estimates on
costs to handling banks of participating in the KIK/KMKP program, preparing
short- and long-term forecasts on demand for smaller credits, and conduct-
ing sample studies to estimate the impact of the KIK/KMKP program in terms of
output, rates of return on investment, costs of jobs created, employment and
(if possible) income distribution.
19.       The studies would possibly cover over a period of a few years
quantitative data such as: number of enterprises, distribution of credits
between established and new clients/enterprises, production, employment,
value added, competing imports, as well as qualitative data concerning trade
channels, dependency of small-entrepreneurs on middle-men, the legal form of
enterprises, regional distribution and developments of credits.



- 125 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor
1.        The Bank Study Team (BST) in the Guidance ("Pembinaan") Division of
BI's Bank Supervision Department is presently supervising, as the first phase
of its work program, the establishment of credit procedures manuals (for all
types of credit, including KIK/KMKP) by the five state commercial banks.
Since this initial phase covers only a selection of the most suitable
procedures, there is a need to arrange for special follow-up efforts to
simplify, rationalize and harmonize these manuals in cooperation with the
banks concerned. Under SEDP, the PPMUs will be given the responsibility for
inter alia recommending changes in the handling banks KIK/KMKP procedures.
To ensure an effective follow-up of these recommendations, BI will appoint
one of its senior officials as KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor to work under the
direct supervision of the CPMU's Directors. Located in the Bank Supervision
Department, this advisor would work closely with the BST and the PPMUs, and
would coordinate closely with CPMU staff and advisors (Annex 9), the Produc-
tion Loan Division (which implements the KIK/KMKP program) and the special
staff working on the development of Credit Data Systems (Annex 12).
2.        The major tasks and responsibilities of the KIK/KMKP Procedures
Advisor and of his staff would comprise the following:
(a) Appraisal Coverage and Standards. In collaboration with the
handling banks and PPMUs, determine ways of simplifying KIK/KMKP
loan appraisal procedures (of both the handling banks and BI) to
reduce costs, accelerate loan approval and increase the number of
loans each loan officer can handle. In particular, guidelines
would be developed on the extent of investigation required for
different sizes and categories of loans;
(b) Procedures Consistency. With the assistance of BI provincial
offices and the handling banks, ensure that consistent procedures
are used for KIK/KMKP loans within and between banks, in accordance
with the procedures manuals prepared by the handling banks in
cooperation with BI's Bank Study Team;
(c) Loan Disbursement, Supervision and Collection. With the PPMUs and
the handling banks, improve disbursement control, loan supervision
and billing and collection procedures to reduce KIK/KMKP arrears;
(d) Collateral Requirements. With the PPMUs and the handling banks,
develop KIK/KMKP collateral requirements providing sufficient
protection for the banks without being unduly restrictive.



- 126 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
3.        In addition to recommending procedural improvements, the advisor
would also look into the allocation of work among the staff of the handling
banks. The major questions in this regard are whether appraisal and super-
vision should be done by the same people (the practice varies between banks),
what role the regional and/or head offices should play in supervising branch
KIK/KMKP activities, and how much sectoral specialization is feasible among
staff handling KIK/KMKP.
4.        In cooperation with the Credit-Data Systems Expert (Annex 12), the
advisor would carry out studies of the handling banks' administrative costs
for the KIK/KMKP program, as a means both of estimating the interest margin
needed under the program, and of seeking ways to reduce administrative
costs.



- 127 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Small Business Advisor
and the Agricultural Advisor
1.        The Production Loan Division of BI's Credit Department performs a
variety of tasks including monitoring KIK/KMKP credit ceilings, issuing
directives to handling banks, and supervising the units in BI branches which
examine the handling banks' KIK/KMKP rediscount applications. As a new
assignment, this Division would coordinate and assist, through a new Planning
Section to be established, the planning and program-development activities of
the Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs - see Annex 13) and the handling
banks under KIK/KMKP and other small-credit programs, including the proposed
Rural Credit Project (RCP).
2.        The program-development activities of this new section would be
undertaken by two BI economists - one for agricultural and one for nonagricul-
tural program lending development - each assisted by one or two Indonesian
professional staff. To obtain field experience, each staff member would be
seconded, on a rotating basis, to a PPMU for about one year. In addition,
the section would be assisted by two advisors - a Small Business Advisor
(recruited in January 1977), and an Agricultural Advisor (to be recruited by
September 1, 1978).
3.        Primary responsibility for development of programs under the Project
would rest with the PPMUs; later, this job would be assumed by the handling
banks. The main roles of the Planning Section would be to:
(a) Determine with the PPMUs which programs would be developed by
them, and coordinate the program development work of the three
PPMUs;
(b) Review all programs developed by the PPMUs;
(c)  Examine the extent to which the programs developed could
be implemented in other provinces as well, and propose modi-
fications, as needed, to this end; and
(d) Review proposals from the handling banks for implementation of
the programs.
4.        In addition to assisting the new section work on programs for
KIK/KMKP agricultural lending, the Agricultural Advisor would review subsec-
toral categories and annual lending programs put forward by BRI under the
RCP, and help coordinate agricultural lending under the two projects.



- 128 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
5.        The Small-Business Advisor would generally handle all nonagricultural
programs. He and the agricultural advisor would work together on programs for
the processing and marketing of agricultural products, especially to coordinate
credit for processing and marketing with credit for production.
6.        The Planning Section would cooperate, on a selective basis, with
Government technical agencies, especially the Department of Industry's BIPIK
program and the Directorates General of the Ministry of Agriculture, to
ensure that the programs developed by the banking system were in accord with
other Government policies in the sector, and made best use of the technical
support which these other agencies could provide.



- 129 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Refer,  - for the Credit-Data Systems Expert
1.        At present, it is virtually impossible to obtain reliable, compre-
hensive data on KIK/KMKP operations, especially on arrears and repayments,
but even on loan approvals, disbursements and outstandings. In particular,
the data from Bank Indonesia (BI) and those from the handling banks generally
differ widely. As a result, it is difficult for BI or handling-bank management
to detect problems early and take corrective actions. For example, no one
knows which sectors or which provinces have the least satisfactory loan
repayment performance, and therefore may need special attention. Nor are the
handling banks, in making their financial projections, able to estimate
accurately what their KIK/KMKP repayments will be.
2.        Data on individual loans, including amounts lent, purposes of the
loans, repayment schedules and actual repayments, are generally available at
the handling-bank branches. However, much of this information gets lost or
distorted as it is compiled and moved forward to the regional and head offices
of the handling banks in an assortment of reports which were established for
specific, often short-term needs. BI has the most comprehensive data on
KIK/KMKP loans approved, including repayment schedules, compiled from the
individual rediscount applications sent to BI. Much of this information
is computerized and summarized in monthly printouts. However, this set of
data, being based solely on loan approvals, contains no information on
repayments and arrears, and will differ from actual disbursements to the
extent that loans are delayed or cancelled. Furthermore, the subsectoral
detail is extremely limited for agricultural loans, and certain KMKP "massal"
programs are wholly or partially excluded from the data.
3.        The primary responsibility of the Credit-Data Systems Expert
would therefore be to develop a data processing and management information
system that would provide both the handling banks' management and BI with the
key information needed for planning and for on-going evaluation of KIK/KMKP
performance. This information should include amounts approved, disbursed,
scheduled to be repaid, actually repaid, outstanding, in arrears (by age of
arrears), and affected by arrears, by bank, subsector and province, including
interest as well as principal, where applicable. The only feasible way to
handle this information would be by computer. As BI has already computerized
data on approvals on a loan-by-loan basis, it should be posssible to have this
further information, on a loan-by-loan basis, also computerized. The expert's
main activities would therefore be to:
(a) advise on what information should be computerized to meet the
information requirements of the handling banks, BI and the
World Bank Group;
(b) determine how this information would be computerized;



130 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
(c)  nelp program tho. cocniutcr to procucue  nhe necessz.-7  reports;
(d)  test the new syste -m rn aF   ' G,in  b asi .s anrd
(e)  adelp instruct the staf,f a      end at hag-bank branches on their
.roles in the system,
4.        I? 2ddi---ion to expanding the c:an tensed KIK/KIIKP system, the
expert wc;e a'   a    bi b   to assist th             banks in sf_mplifying and
in buildi- .g             c y  checks into tk.   o-n KMl4/XMKP renno-vting systems, and
in implementing :          c -ring a nd re orti-sq-   i r ements oi^ the project.  He
should also be abie -..  -51ist, as needead  i-n 'Jl.E- diata colia.c-n.on and process-
ing aspects of the  --   eva-a --                       14).         -j onjunction with
the KIK/(MKP Proceduras .-iso-  Annx I)  he would carr-. out special
studies on the handliun  --r.ks  c-          3S ,sTe or KK/'  i42-s f  for both case-
by-case and program loan-  .-s   a:  3f ->e ef-fo:.- to determine what interest
margins were needed by tit              han'.sO   FSnally, for 55cffi the data
already collected by BT3  'd                    ata -o oe co Jed   he would
revise the present subsecno-I c             -       't s     to e: taie more detailed
data to be collected, espec,~l----, ca      -
5.        The exoert would        -          -'S.e  a'uto       a  Division of BV's
Credit Department, which is  7'''S_Q0Iig  :::                        yzing data on
KIK/KMKP.  He vwould have  nt _                  L-.               wn wtould learn
how to operate and maintain t   .2 a cooIn sysLe. a, t- he expert has
left.



- 131 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs)
1.        Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs) would be established in
three BI provincial offices: Surabaya (East Java), Semarang (Central Java)
and Padang (West Sumatra). A senior official of BI's provincial office would
be the head of each unit and would report to the Manager of the Central
Project Management Unit (CPMU) at BI's head office in Jakarta. Staff would
consist of a five-man consulting team (four-man in West Sumatra) of experts
in small-scale enterprise (SSE) credit and development, and Indonesian
counterparts, drawn primarily from the supervisory and credit-planning
units of BI and the handling banks, who would be seconded to the PPMUs on a
full time basis for periods of at least one year.
2.        The PPMU's main objective would be to promote the adoption by
handling banks of appropriate development banking techniques for implementing
the KIK/KMKP program.  PPMUs would have two primary functions:  (a) on-the-
job training of handling bank KIK/KMKP loan officers and supervisors, and
(b) development, in close collaboration with handling banks, of specific
lending programs.
3.        Particularly in the first year of the project, the PPMUs' work
would follow a mix of more or less equally sustained approaches. As regards
lending activities, the PPMUs would primarily concentrate on:
(a) individual project lending through on-the-job training of loan
officers in the various aspects of project identification, promotion,
appraisal, loan processing and project supervision;
(b) developing with the handling banks effective lending schemes such
as:
- lending programs for subsectors in subregions;
- programs for specific village industries consonant
with existing village development schemes;
- hire-purchase schemes;
- subcontracting arrangements;



- 132 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
-  developing alternative trade channels when entrepreneurs
are facing cartel-like organizations on the part of
suppliers and/or customers;
- establishing larger and more viable entities when
entrepreneurs are willing to join forces;
- preparing profile studies.
4,        While KIK/KMKP finances a large variety of economic activities, the
bulk of the lending is directed to the production of less than 60 commodities.
PPMU teams would be expected to explore possibilities of preparing profile-
studies for each such commodity. These profile-studies, once prepared, would
be made available to the handling banks operating both within and outside the
project provinces, to improve project evaluation and shorten the time required
for individual project appraisal. Profile-studies are also expected to
become important operational data sources for the preparation of similar or
other lending schemes.
5.        To carry out on-the-job training, the PPMUs, would, in cooperation
with the handling bank provincial headquarters, prepare a schedule of visits
to handling bank branches so that, over time, all branches are visited period-
ically. Depending on the subsectoral and regional (district, subdistrict
level) lending priorities, the CPMU would assign to the teams, and the com-
plexity of the projects to be appraised, subteams would be formed consisting
of one or more consultants with an equal number of handling bank loan officers.
The idea would be to base, at any given time, two or three subteams in an
equal number of bank branches, to conduct field visits to enterprises and
prepare appraisal reports.
6.        Although the consulting teams are expected to encompass broad
skills and experience which in the course of project appraisal/supervision or
during the preparation of lending programs could be imparted to entrepreneurs
to solve specific management, technical and marketing problems, BI recognizes
that no group of 4 or 5 experts plus counterparts can address all problems
likely to arise. The PPMUs would therefore be expected to acquaint themselves
with provincial and national sources of expertise, vis, the Dinas programs of
Government Departments, the provincial planning boards (Bappedas), univer-
sities, R & D institutions, private Indonesian consultants, etc. Where
effective sources of nonfinancial assistance are available, cooperation with
such sources would be encouraged, subject to the approval of the CPMU. If
it-term Indonesian or foreign specialized expertise is needed to supplement
he capabilities of the field consulting teams, appropriate arrangements
could be made by the CPMU, provided necessary funds are available.
7.        Another function of the PPMUs would be to appraise handling bank
Dractices and procedures.  Based on day-to-day working experience with the
'ay-zdir.g banks, the PPMUs would put forward to the CPMU commentaries and
recommendations on how to improve handling bank KIK/KMKP loan procedures.



- 133 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3
~ ed: ractices and procedures would comprise all phases of
lending.owe-; 9 particular attention would be paid to (a) the improvement
e   roict~appaisal manuals and (b) the organization of appropriate super-
roan netho, Q 9ncuding disbursement control, project visits and collection
prccedures0 Apart from appraising handling bank internal practices and
procedures, the DPMUs would also prepare recommendations, where necessary,
for ad-lustirng K9K/ 4KP guidelines issued by Bank Indonesia.
tlme to time, the PPMUs would also be requested to provide
fiele assistance to BI's head office activities on collecting and processing
data, and analyz-ing small-credits. Recommendations would be sought on i.a.
(a) systems and procedures for data collection, processing and evalu-
ation of:
repayments and arrears;
- approved, pending and rejected credit applications;
- disbursements;
credits outstanding;
costs to the handling banks resulting from their involvement
in KIK/}M{KP, and
(b)  improvements in handling bank reporting systems.
9.        The sinuation and circumstances differ greatly between provinces,
within provinces between regions, between handling banks and within handling
banks between bank branches.  The complex nature of the approaches required
to develop small-scale enterprises, the varying quality of business advisory
ser-vies available, and the inherent limits to the role that even well-
developed banks can play, all indicate that the PPMUs' task will be a difficult
one. Although the key-functions prescribed to the teams are the same in the
three provinces, emphasi's on specific functions and actual approach are likely
to differ to some extent between provinces. During the initial period of
project implementation, the CPMU would gain the necessary experience to formu-
late distinctf annual wTfork programs for subsequent periods for each of the
field teams,  Barz. Indonesia would therefore attach the highest priority
to a close supe-vision of PPMU work, and a distinct formulation of the annual
work program for each team.  These work programs would be thoroughly reviewed
_ach ;-ar and 1aay require changes in the composition of the consultant teams,
as time passes,  However, for the first year of operations, Bank Indonesia
'T-OU- m'a' nta-Ln a mix both in PPMU functions and in team composition, as
t_ -hese terms of reference.
ct.ion and SLaffing
IU,C      '-:'ii''_in7ag Teams.  The consulting teams, attached as advisors to
""C.       coasist of three foreign experts and two qualified senior



- 134 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4
Indonesian consultants (three foreign and one Indonesian expert in West
Sumatra) with substantial experience in development banking, program develop-
ment, general small enterprise management, industrial engineering and market-
ing, particularly as related to small-scale enterprises in developing countries.
Considering the three provinces' strong economic orientation towards agri-
culture and agro-business, each team would include one expert in agricultural
project evaluation. The foreign team leader would be a senior consultant
with a strong background in development banking or program development, and
extensive experience in developing countries.  He would both direct and
participate in the activities of the team. He would have been exposed to
the particularities of credit operations in rural areas and be able to
suggest and help introduce effective subsectoral development schemes.
Moreover, the team leader would be particularly aware of the prospective
employment effects of the projects or programs recommended to the banks by
the team. The team leader of each PPMU would report, through the head of the
PPMU, to the CPMU's Project Manager in Jakarta.
11.       The three foreign consultants would be experts in development
banking, program development and industrial engineering respectively (for
West Sumatra this would be an expert in agricultural projects). The two
Indonesian consultants would consist of one marketing expert and one expert
in agricultural projects. (The Indonesian consultant in West Sumatra would
be an expert in the latter). The participation of the Indonesian consultants
would be so arranged to develop Indonesian institutional capabilities to
render advisory services to small-scale enterprises.
12.       The foreign experts would acquire within a reasonable period of time
a working knowledge of the Indonesian language and reside in the provincial
capitals of the project areas concerned. Contracts with consulting firms
would be for three years; with individual experts they would be for two years,
with the possibility of extension for one more year. Contracts would allow
BI to replace an expert at 3 months notice. The composition of the consulting
teams would be reviewed after one full year of operation.
13.       BI Staff.  BI would provide full-time staff to the PPMUs, drawn
from both its head office and its provincial branch offices. A senior
official from BI's provincial office would head each PPMU. In addition, at
least one more branch office Indonesian professional would be appointed as
permanent member of the PPMU staff, and be capable of replacing the PPMU head
in the future. Sufficient administrative and secretarial staff would be
added to arrange for travelling and routine liaison with the handling banks.
BI also intends to make available to each PPMU a young professional from its
head office. These young professionals would have completed an introductory
training program of at least one year in Jakarta, after graduating from
university and joining BI. They would be given a full-time assignment of one



- 135 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5
year (possibly to be replaced by another colleague in subsequent years) to
become involved in the development of program-lending. It is also BI's
intention to second to PPMUs for a one-year rotation staff members of the
unit in the Production Loan Division which will be specifically in charge of
developing program-lending.
14.       Handling Bank Counterpart Staff.  The handling banks' participation
in the PPMUs' activities would be fourfold:
(a) Each handling bank would second to the PPMUs on a full-time basis
at least one qualified official for a period of one year, to be
replaced by another in each subsequent year. This provincial
headquarters official would be the person in charge of KIK/KMKP
credits and would return to this position after completing his
one-year assignment with the PPMU. It is primarily this official
who would receive on-the-job training in project identification,
promotion, appraisal, loan processing and project supervision.
Before being assigned to this position, candidates would undergo
careful selection and would also possibly attend the small enter-
prise credit course to be developed at LPPI.
(b) Each handling bank would ensure that its branches in the regions
make temporarily available at least one staff member to assist the
(sub-) teams when these are operating in the field, on the territory
of those branches;
(c) BI would- seek to obtain that handling banks (in particular BRI
and BNI' 46, which have already established at their Jakarta
head offices a special office for research or credit planning)
assign one or more senior officials to assist the PPMUs in their
program-lending development activities.
(d)  The handling banks would also select from time to time branch loan
officers in both the three SEDP provinces and other provinces, to
attend the small enterprise credit course at LPPI. These officers
would subsequently be assigned full-time to KIK/KMKP operations.
Specific Functions and Responsibilties of the PPMU Consulting Teams
15.       The specific functions and responsibilities of the PPMU consulting
team members would be as follows:
(a) Team leader:
(i) supervise and coordinate the overall activities of the team,
and in particular, draw up the team's work program and indivi-
dual assignments following the directives of the CPMU and in
close consultation with the PPMU head and the handling banks;



- 136 -
ARNEX 13
Pag>e6--
(ii) reassess sectoral and regional (particularly at the subsectoral
and subdistrict level) lending priorities and opportunities,
in cooperation with other institutions, whenever possible;
findings and-suggestions to be forwarded, through -zhe head of
the PPMU, to the CPMU;
(iii)  arrange for the preparation of suggestions to develop schemes
aimed at enhancing the impact of the KIK/KMKP program (e.g.,
subsectoral lending programs, schemes to develop traditional
clusters of skilled labor; initiation of subcontracting to
SSEs by larger firms, establishment of joint ventures between
small firms, hire-purchase schemes for equipment financing,
etc.);
(iv) arrange for team assistance to the handling bank branches to
introduce standardized small-credit banking practices, proce-
dures and systems developed by the CPMU in cooperation with
the handling bank head offices and BI's Bank Supervison
Department;
(v)  assist bank managers in other efforts to improve evaluation
and post-loan supervision of small credits;
(vi) consult with the provincial government and other agencies
involved in the promotion of small enterprises in the project
area;
(vii)  report on a timely basis the team's activities and achieve-
ments, and alert the CPMU (through the head of the PPMU) of
any major problems;
(viii)  evaluate and prepare requests for special subsectoral or
project studies and/or the recruitment of short-term consult-
ants and forward these requests (through the head of the PPMU)
to the CPMU for approval;
(ix) maintain constant dialogue with individual team members and
secure any assistance necessary to enable the team to function
effectively;
(x) ensure that all instructions from the CPMU are carried out by
the team in a timely manner.
(b) Team-members:
(i)  Each of the team members would be involved in on-the-job
training of selected handling bank counterpart loan officers
in project identification and promotion, project appraisal,
loan processing and project supervision; in so doing, regularly
participate in the activities of the 2 or 3 subteams operating



ANNEX 13
Page 7
in the provincial districts; on-the-job training would comprise
one or more of the following aspects:
(a) how to inform a wider audience about the existence and
terms and conditions of KIK/KMKP;
(b) what degree of evaluation of project viability is justi-
fied for various types of projects;
(c) how to assess project viability and borrower credit-
worthiness;
(d) how to assess working capital requirements of KIK pro-
jects, and how to coordinate KIK and KMKP loans for the
same project;
(e) how to assess collateral requirements of loans and value
of collateral offered;
(f) how to determine the proper maturity, grace period, and
repayment terms of loans;
(g) how to assist borrowers in setting up proper financial
record-keeping and planning;
(h) where to refer prospective borrowers for technical
assistance which the banks themselves are not in a
position to give;
(i) loan supervision techniques including proper billing and
loan collection procedures.
(ii) The development banking specialist would spend part of his
time specifically on the preparation of recommendations to
improve handling bank KIK/KMKP systems and procedures. He
would devote particular attention to: (a) manuals for project
appraisal, (b) supervision (in particular disbursement control,
project visits and collection methods) and (c) reporting (both
internal and to BI). For that purpose he would be working
together with BI's Bank Supervision Department. His recom-
mendations would be forwarded to the CPMU. Whenever PPMUs are
requested to render assistance to the section at BI head office
in charge of credit-data systems development, the development
banking specialist would also make available his expertise,
and forward his recommendations (through the head of the PPMU)
to the CPMU.
(iii) The agricultural projects specialist would be working exclu-
sively on KIK/KMKP lending for agricultural subsectors,
including the processing of agricultural products; (no specific
sectors, however, would be allocated on a exclusive basis to
the marketing expert or the industrial engineer).



- 138 -
ANNEX 13
Page 8
(iv) Each of the team-members would share his own particular
expertise with his colleagues and/or the subteams when
needed in the opinion of the team leader.
(v) In accordance with the priorities of the annual work program,
the consultants would devote part of their subteam activities
to the development of hire-purchase schemes, subcontracting
arrangements, village-schemes, or lending programs for
particular subsectors in a specific district. In performing
such activity, the subteams would work closely with the
special section in charge of program-lending development in
BI's Credit Department, which in turn would arrange for
cooperation with officials of handling bank head offices
assigned specifically to program development.
(vi) The team-members would, in carrying out on-the-job training of
handling bank loan officers, broaden these officers' experience
in providing advice to bank clients on the nature of a bank-
client relationship. These advisory services (to prospective)
bank clients would comprise:
(a)  assisting prospective KIK/KMKP clients in preparing
brief accounting records and financial statements,
drafting a written presentation of their enterprise, and
filling-in credit applications;
(b) informing borrowers of the nature of project supervision,
including billing and collection procedures and practices;
(c) assisting borrowers set up simple financial record-keeping
and planning, as appropriate.
(vii) Whenever possible and depending on the limits and priorities
of the annual work program, the team members would render
advice - in cooperation with their handling bank counterparts
- to prospective KIK/KMIKP clients/borrowers on the basic
aspects of business management, production and marketing.
These advisory services might comprise one or more of the
following aspects:
(a) economics of small enterprises, including how to make
economically and financially sound business decisions;
(b) basic principles of financial management and cost/benefit
analysis as applied to small enterprises;
(c) use of accounting records and financial statements as
effective tools of business management; assist entre-
preneurs in cash management;



- 139 -
ANNEX 13
Page 9
(d) determining the need for additional borrowing and alter-
native costs of capital; assist in financial projections,
cash management, budget and work schedules;
(e) assist entrepreneurs in defining and solving marketing
and supply problems; suggest alternative markets and
sources of raw materials when needed;
(f) in addition, the marketing expert would: assist in
defining consumer preference, in terms of quality
standards and price; advise on sources of assistance to
improve product design and standards; provide the entre-
preneurs with the result of marketing studies available
in Jakarta or in the local area; advise on export
procedures and foreign exchange transactions if the
product is exportable;
(g) the industrial engineer would in particular:
- whenever possible, provide on-the-spot advice on
identifying and solving technical problems related to
production processes, whenever possible; advise on
technical matters related to loan applications;
and
- advise on: low-cost automation and adaptive technology;
procurement of suitable machinery and equipment,
considering capacity requirements, cost, maintenance,
and replacement factors; plant lay-out for optimum use
of equipment; maintenance and repairs; adequate levels
of spare parts and accessory inventories to reduce
work stoppages to a minimum.
(viii) The team members would advise the handling banks on how to
strengthen their capabilities in referring (prospective)
KIK/KMKP clients to sources of nonfinancial business assist-
ance, whenever the banks themselves are not in a position to
render such assistance. This advice would be based on a
careful assessment by the PPMUs of the service capabilities of
the various Dinas programs, universities, research and develop-
ment institutes, vocational training centers and other Govern-
ment or private institutions. Informal cooperation with these
institutions would be encouraged, after prior approval by the
CPMU. The assessment activities of the PPMUs would receive
particular emphasis in the context of the specific lending-
program development activities.



- 140 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Evaluation Study
1.        Under the project, a three-year evaluation study of project lending
would be undertaken. The study would focus on the economic impact of the
subloans, and the problems encountered by borrowers. The results of the
study would be used by Bank Indonesia (BI) and the Bank Group in designing
any future small enterprise development projects.
2.        The study would be contracted out by BI and undertaken by an
Indonesian university or institute with experience in survey research in
economics. Interested organizations would be asked to submit detailed
proposals to BI, which would, with the agreement of the Association, select
the best proposal. The proposals would describe the organizations' technical
approach to the study, and should be specific, detailed and complete enough
to clearly demonstrate their understanding of the requirements for and the
technical problems inherent in the study. Evaluation of the proposals would
be based upon the understanding shown of the project, the methodology to be
used, the staff qualifications, and the organizations' experience with
similar studies. If no Indonesian organizations had fully suitable quali-
fications, short-term assistance from an individual consultant might be
arranged, primarily for setting up and supervising the research. The research
program will be coordinated by the Research Department of BI.
3.        The study would be based on a sample of KIK subloans made under the
project in the three project provinces. The subloans would be selected at
random from subpopulations of KIK subloans so as to have adequate coverage
of loans of various types (e.g. program vs. case-by-case; different provinces,
sectors and handling banks; new vs. expansion projects). A sample size of
about 400-500 loans is anticipated.
4.        The organization undertaking the study would have to:
(a) prepare and pre-test the interview questionnaires;
(b) train the interviewers (five to ten people);
(c) select the sample of subloans;
(d) interview the selected subborrowers regularly (every one
to three months, depending upon how seasonal the activity is);
(e) interview the loan officers who made the loans, and possibly
other officials as well;



- 141 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
(f) analyze the interview questionnaire results;
(g) write semi-annual progress reports and a final report
presenting the results and conclusions.
5.        The study would begi-_ by December 1, 1978.  Preparation, ?re-testing,
training and sample selection would take about four months. Subloans would
be selected shortly after being approved, so that base-line data on them
could be obtained, covering pre-subloan production, employment, technology,
marketing, input supply, etc. The progress of the subborrowers would then be
followed over about the next two years. Data analysis and final report
writing would take the final six to eight months of the study. A first
interim report would be furnished to the Association by March 31, 1980.
6.        The main subjects of investigation would be:
(a) the impact of the subloans on production, employment, etc.;
this would be used both to calculate economic/financial
rates of return and to see how accurate the cash flows
projected by the handling banks were;
(b) the main problems encountered by the subborrowers;
(c) the technical support needed and received from Government
agencies;
(d) the subloan repayment performance, and reasons for any
arrears;
(e) further investments and technical changes which might indicate
entrepreneurial development; and
(f) the amount, nature and effect of supervision done by the
handling banks.



- 142 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Policy and Strategy Statement for the KIK/KMKP Program
1.        This statement formulates the main directions in which Bank
Indonesia (BI) expects to see the KIK/KMKP Program develop and towards which
it will take further actions as necessary. The progress made and the further
actions to be taken will be decided upon from time to time by the Board of
Managing Directors of BI. For that purpose advice will be sought from, inter
alia, the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) which will base its recommen-
dations upon the findings and suggestions of the three Provincial Project
Management Units (PPMUs) under the Small Enterprise Development Project (SEDP).
General Objective and Strategy
2.        The main objective of the KIK/KMKP Program is to finance the
development of small, indigenous enterprises in virtually all economic
sectors, as a means of creating employment, assisting the geographic dispersal
of production, developing managerial and technical skills, providing markets
for local raw materials, and in general, promoting productive economic
activity in all regions. The success of the KIK/KMKP Program hinges primarily
upon the performance of the handling banks in managing the KIK/KMKP lending
program. In addition, nonfinancial supporting services are needed by
borrowers. On the part of the borrowers the demand for such services will,
in practice, likely depend on the ability of government agencies, private
institutions and individual consultants to provide appropriate advice. Bank
Indonesia and the handling banks will endeavour to assist borrowers in
identifying those sources of nonfinancial services which have proven to be
competent in advising small enterprises.
3.        Particularly for the first year BI intends to implement a mix of
more or less equally sustained approaches for the field teams of the PPMUs.
This mix will comprise, inter alia:
(a) involvement in individual project lending through on-the-job
training of loan officers during field trips, in the various
aspects of project identification, promotion and appraisal, loan
processing and project supervision;
(b) arranging for the preparation of effective development schemes,
such as:
- lending programs for subsectors in subregions;
- the introduction of programs for specific village industries
consistent with existing village development schemes;
- hire-purchase schemes;



- 143 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2
- subcontracting arrangements;
-  the development of alternative trade channels in cases where
entrepreneurs are facing cartel-like organizations on the part
of their suppliers and/or customers, or the preparation of
profile studies.
4.        BI intends to adhere for the first phase of project implementation
to such a mix of approaches because it strongly feels that a preference for
any approach out of a variety of important program and nonprogram approaches
remains arbitrary as long as the rationale for such a preference is not
substantiated by the field experience of the PPMUs. The experience of the
PPMUs is important, because there is not sufficient evidence and experience
with similar projects in Indonesia and throughout other developing countries
to enable BI to determine with authority an optimum approach in advance.
Particularly during its initial stage the SEDP will therefore, by necessity,
have distinct experimental features.
5.        Although a mix of approaches will be maintained, BI expects the
PPMUs to take the lead in exploring possibilities for improving the
development of program lending, provided the feasibility of the approach is
first established for each program. This means in particular that the PPMUs
will have to show to CPMU that the program approach will economize on
expensive consulting services, will be justified by the number of potential
borrowers under that program, and will not absorb the time of the handling
banks' staff and consultants to such an extent that other ongoing KIK/KMKP
lending activities need to be reduced.
6.        In the preparation of development programs, BI intends to seek
cooperation with other government agencies such as BIPIK, the agricultural
extension services, BAPPEDAs, universities and technical and vocational
training institutes. In addition BI is willing to engage, as advisers,
experienced and knowledgeable individuals in the preparation of specific
lending programs.
Lending Procedures
7.        The KIK/KMKP procedures, as laid down in BI directives, are
modified from time to time, based on changing circumstances and on new
information on the Program's performance. Further improvements may be
needed to help ensure that collateral requirements are not excessive, loan
funds are used only for approved purposes, appraisals are streamlined as
much as possible, disbursement practices are improved, loans are adequately
supervised, etc. For this reason, the CPMU will from time to time be
requested to render advice, based upon recommendations from the PPMUs. The
responsible departments of BI will evaluate the recommendations and, if they
are acceptable, request the handling banks to implement the suggested
improvements. In addition, a senior official will be nominated with the
specific assignment to assist BI and the handling banks in improving KIK/KMKP
procedures. It is expected that the regular meetings between the branches
of BI and the handling banks will further develop into an effective means



- 144 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3
for coordinating and strengthening the KIK/KMKP Program. In order to ensure
t,.aL each bank official handling small loans has easy access to the full set
of regulations, BI will keep an up-to-date manual incorporating all directives
it has sent out on the program; each handling bank is expected to do the
same for both the directives received from BI and internal instructions set by
the branches.
Size and Maturity Limits of Loans
8.        For the present, Rp 5 million and 5 years (3 years for KMKP) remain
the general loan size and maturity limits of the KIK/KMKP Program. An excep-
tion to the Rp 5 million ceiling (up to Rp 10 million) has already been made for
borrowers who have shown a good repayment performance over the last two years of
their first KIK/KMKP credit. Provided this does not lead to a redirection
of the program in favor of enterprises of medium size, further exceptions to
both the size and maturity limits will also be made as justified by program
or other appraisal reports. In addition, BI will increase the Rp 5 million
ceiling from time to time, to take into account cost increases. Furthermore,
whenever needed, KMKP loans will be given for the projects receiving KIK
finance, to ensure that those borrowers have the necessary working capital to
utilize their investments to full capacity.
Strengthening the Handling Banks' KIK/KMKP Capability
9.        There are a number of ways in which the handling banks, as a
group, generally need further strengthening to improve their management of
KIK/KMKP lending. First, additional training of loan officers and supervisory
personnel is required. Two Small Enterprise Credit Specialists are being
recruited for YPPI to advise on, design and help implement YPPI courses to
meet all these needs. The handling banks own training efforts will have to
be coordinated with the YPPI Training Program. Second, to support and later
take over the activities such as those being undertaken by the PPMUs, the
field training of handling banks' personnel from all over Indonesia needs to
be intensified. This will require, inter alia, the gradual development, in
particular at these banks' head offices of both economic and technical exper-
tise in the field of subregional and village development programs, hire and
purchase schemes, subcontracting, com mdity and subsector programs, and
marketing development schemes. And third, more extensive guidance and
supervision of branches' KIK/KMKP activities are generally needed for the
head and/or regional offices.
Collections Performance and Financial Returns to Handling Banks
10.       Terms and conditions of KIK/KMKP will be set so as to provide
handling banks with an adequate financial return on their lending under the
program. This will both contribute to the overall financial health of these
institutions and provide incentive for their continued participation in
KTK!IZEP. In addition, the handling banks will be asked to monitor closely
their collections performance, and devote special efforts to collections, such
as increased loan supervision, setting collection targets, and imposition of
penalty interest rates on arrears.



- 145 -
ANNEX 15
Page 4
Data Collection and Analysis
11.       Since the information so far collected on arrears on the KIK/KMKP
Program has been insufficient to regularly monitor collection rates, BI will
establish a reporting system through which the relevant data will be collected
for KIK/KMKP lending in all provinces. Three major areas in which it is
important to develop KIK/KMKP data collection and analysis systems are:
repayments/arrears, operating costs of handling banks, and economic/financial
returns on loans. BI will assign a Credit Data Systems Specialist, who will
assist the concerned BI departments in these matters. BI will also carry
out special studies of the handling banks' KIK/KMKP operating costs.
12.       In addition, BI will contract out an evaluation study of the
KIK/KMKP Program which it will finance out of its own funds. The study will
be carried out by Indonesian universities and other institutions that have
adequate research capabilities to analyze the socioeconomic effects of the
Program. The research program will be coordinated by the Research Department
of BI. BI attaches much importance to the study because additional research
is needed for a variety of policy and other aspects of the KIK/KMKP Program.



- 146 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
1.        To serve its own requirements, as well as those of the Association,
each handling-bank branch in the three provinces would maintain the following:
(a) a project file for each KIK or KMKP loan, including the documen-
tation for the loan, the repayment schedule for principal and
interest, and a record of all disbursements, repayments, and
supervision visits;
(b) a map showing the location of all KIK and KMKP projects;
(c) monthly lists on a loan by loan basis, of all KIK/KMKP loans
outstanding, amounts already in arrears or falling due, and loan
approvals, disbursements, collections and supervision visits
during the month; and
(d) an up-to-date manual of KIK/KMKP procedures, incorporating all
circulars or other directives received.
2.        Quarterly progress reports on the project would be submitted to the
CPMU by each unit in BI's head office involved directly in project implemen-
tation, the three PPMUs, YPPI, and the evaluation-study contractor. The CPMU
would send the Association quarterly progress reports on the entire project,
incorporating the highlights of the reports it received. Appended to the CPMU's
quarterly reports would be copies of the appraisal reports of all programs
for project lending submitted by the PPMUs and approved by the Planning and
Program Development Units in the Credit Department's Production Loan Division,
as well as the basic data on project lending during the quarter.
3.        In addition, "Annual Review and Planning Papers" would be prepared
by the CPMU for joint review with the Association. These papers, besides
summarizing the accomplishments of the preceding 12 months, would address
issues affecting national policy, institutional structures and program per-
formance. Specifically, they would discuss the measures taken, or proposed,
to implement the policy and strategy statement (Annex 15), to overcome the
constraints hampering small enterprise development in Indonesia, and to
strengthen the handling banks, including inter alia the following issues:
(a) KIK/KMKP program development, including consequent adjustments
of maximum loan size and maturity where warranted;
(b) coordination on KIK/KMKP between the banking system and other
agencies, especially BIPIK and the agricultural extension services,
and success in arranging for technical support from these agencies
for KIK/KMKP borrowers;



- 147 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2
(c) procedural improvements in handling bank KIK/KMKP operations,
and recruitment and training of KIK/KMKP staff;
(d)  KIK/KMKP collections performance;
(e) adequacy of the interest spread to the handling banks; and
(f) distribution of project lending by province, bank, sector,
maturity and size.



INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Prolect Execution Schedule
Calendar Year             |        1976          |        1977          |        1978          1        1979          |        1980          1        1981
Quarter                    1   2   3   4          1   2   3   4          1   2   3   4          1   2   3   4          1   2   3   4          1   2   3   4
1.  Sublending                                                                                      ---- - ------------- - ---------- - - -- - ---- --- |
2.  Consultancy to BI Head Office
a.  Project Advisor                                ------~ -g--~~-~   ---|-       -~~--------~   -~~~~~-   
b.  KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor  |                                                                    X    --        --|-   -~~~- -    -~- ---- -  ---  --  
c.  Small Business Advisor                                                                   -  ~-    ~~--1--     -  - -  ~- - ---- -~~     --------- --~   
d. Agricultural Advisor                                                                                                          |X ---- -1-- - - ~ ----- - ~-  - --~ - -- 
e.  Credit Data Systems Expert                                            x    --X - ------ - ~ - - ---- 
3.  Consultancy to PPHUs                                  x X                        -|-- - - - - - ~--- - - --------  - --  --~-~ 
4 .  Consultancy to LPPI                                  x X                       --   ------------- - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - -  
5.  Credit-Insurance Study                |                                                         X   --------
6.  Evaluation Study                                                                                  x l      -------- - - - ---- - --------- - ---- ------ 
X -Terms of Reference sent to short list of potential consultants, or issued to persons responsible.



- 149 -
ANNEX 18
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                 Quarterly                   Cumulative
and Quarter                   disbursement                disbursements
------------- (US$ million) ------------
FY78
4th                            3.0                           3.0
FY79
Ist                            3.0                           6.0
2nd                            3.1                           9.1
3rd                            3.2                          12.3
4th                            3.3                          15.6
FY80
Ist                            3.4                          19.0
2nd                            3.5                          22.5
3rd                            3.6                          26.1
4th                            3.7                          29.8
FY81
1st                            3.8                          33.6
2nd                            3.2                          36.8
3rd                            3.0                          39.8
4th                            0.2                          40.0



- 150 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Action Program for Project Implementation
A. Recruitment and Staffing for Bank Indonesia (BI)
1. Central Project Management Unit (CPMU)
(a) Project Manager, who would be head of CPMU, to be recruited
before Board presentation in consultation with the Association
(done); and
(b) Two or three junior staff to be appointed.
2. KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor to be appointed by September 1, 1978,
with the approval of the Association.
3. Planning Unit in BI's Credit Department Production Loan Division.
(a) Agricultural Advisor to be appointed by September 1, 1978, with
the approval of the Association; and
(b) Economists and small-enterprise experts to be appointed; some
to be seconded to PPMUs.
4. Credit Data Systems Expert to be appointed by March 1, 1978, with
the approval of the Association. (Done).
5. Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs).
(a) Consultancy contract to be signed, with the approval of the
Association, leader of consulting team to have taken up duties
in Indonesia, and, in consultation with the Association, PPIMU
head to be appointed, as condition of disbursement of credit
component of IDA Credit for each province;
(b) Counterpart staff from supervisory and planning units of BI and
the handling banks to be appointed; and
(c) PPMU to submit first annual plan of operations, within three
months after beginning operations.
B.  Training    -
1. Two Small-Enterprise-Credit Training Experts to be appointed
by March 1, 1978, with the approval of the Association. (Done).



- 151 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2
2. Detailed plan for training of loan officers and supervisors involved
in the project to be prepared and furnished to the Association by June 1,
1978.
3. LPPI to appoint a small-enterprise-credit instructor as permanent
staff by September 1, 1978.
4. BI to consider building up permanent staff at LPPI.
C. Credit Insurance
1. Proposed terms of reference for the credit-insurance study to be
undertaken by Government, to be furnished to the Association for an
exchange of view by June 30, 1978.
2. Report of the study to be submitted to the Association for comment
by December 31, 1978.
3.  BI and Government to increase ASKRINDO's paid-in capital.
D. Evaluation Study
1. Proposed terms of reference for the evaluation study to be con-
tracted out by BI, to be furnished to the Association for an exchange
of view by September 30, 1978.
2. Study report to be furnished to the Association for comment by
March 31, 1980.
E. Subloan Terms and Procedures
1. General KIK/KMKP subloan ceiling to be increased from time to time
to take into account past and future increases in price levels.
2. Interest rates
(a) BI to carry out a study of KIK/KMKP administrative costs and
total financial costs of the handling banks, for which proposed
terms of reference are to be furnished to the Association for an
exchange of view by June 30, 1978. Report of the study to be
submitted to the Association for comment by March 31, 1979.
(b) BI to cause all banks lending under the KIK/KMKP program to
levy by March 31, 1978, a penalty charge of 3% p.a. on amounts
of principal of KIK/KMKP loans in arrears for more than 90 days.
3. BI to issue a directive to handling banks on procurement and dis-
bursement by March 1, 1978, in agreement with the Association. (Done).



- 152 -
ANNEX 19
Page 3
F.  KIK Loan Collections
1.  BI, through regular consultations with each handling bank, to cause
handling banks to take such measures as necessary to ensure that
handling bank branches participating in SEDP achieve and maintain a
satisfactory level of KIK loan collection performance. The improve-
ment of the performance of handling bank branches which have not yet
achieved an annual collection rate of 70% will be of particular
concern to BI.
2.  Not later than June 30, 1978, BI to discuss with the Association the
measures being taken or proposed by the handling banks to improve
their collection performance.
3.  Not later than the end of each BI fiscal year, starting not later
than March 31, 1979, BI to review with the Association the measures
taken by BI and the handling banks and the results achieved by the
handling banks in the project area over the previous calendar year.
4.  Not later than the end of each BI fiscal year, starting not later
than March 31, 1980, BI to review with the Association measures to be
taken by BI and the handling banks to further improve such collection
performance including, inter alia, the setting of collection targets
for the current calendar year for each handling bank in each province
in the project area.
G.        Consolidated and reconciled audit reports on project lending
through March 31, 1979, to be sent to the Association by the State Accounting
Directorate by December 31, 1979, and for every year thereafter, as of the
same dates.



IBRD 12884R
1i0  >  lOOO   -    ,"_rs                        ,>         ,  VPHILIPPINES            IMAR-iH 1978
The btdOeje t n tn thtt -p do -tt    BMALAYSIA           8RUNEI       2-
-tpiy  end---men  or .cccPta-   by the  -
Woeld B. kted tc ffi- Ate                               A LACYFA    OC i /A
\.-,SINGAPORE<cc  ./  
N C  X T i- a   S S  X '; .- 7 R A      \            q X ' . G 9:        X tKALIMANrAN       j  - -                       O
c   We                               ISu AWESI                         IRIAN
71     Ja!c   Sea         '          Bara  Sea
0  o   J  ;:     ~Javo  T /?IMOR
Nata                  i                      -
PEKANBARU        102'              _
Airan is                        LuEbuksikoping                    j
Pariaman88    rOBI      B     >          _ jungiun;g/
jPADANG  BD
angponianAahanpon1ong
I~~~N4
IN DON ESPIA mi
Small Enterprise Development Project /BRl    
Branches [ending UndergThe Project  Klun
West Sumatra                                 Solok
G31t   Bank Indonesia                               /9\          
SRI    Bank Rakyat Indonesia                                                             / Stf 
SNI 46 Bank Negara Indonesia, 1946                        _,Balorselasa           J       'N
2     EII   Bank Ekspor-impor Indonesia\                                                                                           2
BB D   Ba nk Bumi Daya                       ?E
SDN   Bank Dagang Negara                                       .\
BPD    Bank Pembangunan Daerah                                ,- \                  tOLubukgadang  \
Roads                                                 X(       \
RaiNDONES Railwa
--- Rivers \/
*-    - Provincial boundaries                                     \- >          ,      - 
O,      25       50O      75       100           ec      B
KILOMETERS                                                   r\  '              -\QL~ 
o             25             50            75                                                         \
MILESS
99                                   100                                    101          \,-02
Brnce    Ledn    Une    Th    Prjc                                                uaIau






LBRD 12927R
IN               r  r  VPHILIPPINES                        The Iosndaes                                         12                                 INDONESIA                                 1i4'                    NIARCH 1978
I~~~~A~~~~YSIA  BRUNEI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~h b- ~                      how on this map do not
BRL                                                  iMl~~~~PACF/  CEN ttOy    -- ttd,ttttO  -qf-tatc hY the
A AL                                PACIFIC OCEAN                 id ok rc.eff        c by                                   SMALL  ENTERPRISE  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KALIMANTAN B,SIN6APORE3i  VBranches Lending Under The Project
e s C ) \ KALIMANTANr fi'                                                                                g                                            rt~n b 6 Centrol and East Java
0> /    o    t        tSUIAS/ *>       =      t;lrIRlAI                                                                                              BI   Bank Indonesia
mow   Sew ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_AY ~BR I  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
J-ade   Seo                                                 c7         5   e   a                                   BNI 46 Bank Negara Indonesia, 946
BEII   Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia
< _C ortical JanO  .         -.o~ -RBBD   Bank Bumi Daya
INDIAN    OCAN            ~     st       o'-         TIMOR                                                                                                             BDN   Baink Dagang Niegara
__________________________________________________________________________________                                                                                    RB      Bank   Pembongunan    Indonesia
09\4             1d90         0                                 iio *oB    BRI                                                                                             BPD   Bank Pembangunan Dcerah
BN1 6                        N146RI                                    BRI
BRD                     IBNI RI46                                   I   BN14
RDN                   BR                        BEI              3RD           n    B I Rnn-'-n,
Cirabon            BEll                                                                                                                n                                                                     BRI BD
7I      I      SRailways p        Bk NI                                                                                    |
WES                  Bre~~~~'  RiversSRI                                                                                                                                                     UEn A                                                    -
J VP nCial boundarges                                                                                                                                           ko                               BEll 
O       25       50       75      Ion      125   T50  A                                                                                                                                                          PDL  0
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                            [        ,_     \,
0            25            SO            75            100                                     I N    0 / A  N                         00eE  A  N                                                                                       2 C
MI LES
9           10~~~9-                                        115'                                      Il'                                     l12.                                   11j3'                                  lid' 



