Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2257-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURREIWY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00         -         Rp 415
Rp 1.00                    US$ 0.0024
Rp 1 million    =          US$ 2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)       =         2.47 acres
1 kilomaeter (km)    =         0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)      -         2.2 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONIS
ASKRINDO    Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BAPINDO     Development Bank of Indonesia
BI          Bank Indonesia
BIMAS       Mass Guidance (a farm input-credit program)
BIPIK       Guidance and Development of Small-Scale Industries
BRI       --.-Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CPMU        Central Project Management Unit
KIB         General Investment Credit
KIK         Small Investment Credit
KMKP        Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
PPMU         Provincial Project Mlanagement Unit
PDFCI       Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PUPN        State Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims
RCP         Rural Credit Project
SEDP        Small Enterprise Development Project
SSE          Small-Scale Enterprise
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNIDO       United Nations Industrial Development Organization
LPPI         Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia
Fiscal Year
Government               April 1 to March 31
Bank Indonesia           April 1 to March 31
State Banks              January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SMALL 'ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
C:REDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:         Bank Indonesia (BI)
Amount:              $40 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:               Standard
Relending            To BI at 2% interest, 20 years maturity,
Terms:              including four and one half years grace period.
Project
Description:        The project will improve incomes of small farmers and
businessmen, and provide additional employment oppor-
tunities, by assisting Bank Indonesia in strengthening
its existing Small-Investment-Credit/Small-Permanent-
Working-Capital-Credit (KIK/KMKP) program and laying the
groundwork for a gradual improvement of Government
technical services to small-scale enterprises. The
projec.t would finance KIK lending, for about two and one
half years, in the provinces of East and Central Java and
West Sumatera. Approximately 10,000 subloans would be
made by handling banks for productive activities in
virtuailly all sectors of the economy. Technical assist-
ance would involve the strengthening of KIK/KMKP program
supervision, the establishment of three Provincial
Project Management Units, training of Bank Indonesia and
handli.ng banks' staff, a study of the credit insurance
system, an evaluation study of the project's impact, and
a study of handling banks' total administrative and
financial costs under the program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                   Local    Foreign    Total
-------($ million)-------
Credit                        45.4       15.1       60.5
Technical assistance
and training                4.3         3.5        7.8
Price contingency              8.8        2.9       11.7
Total                    58.5       21.5       80.0
Financing Plan:                                    IDA         BI   Handling Banks
Credit                        33.8       23.0       14.2
Technical assistance
and training                6.2        1.9         0.9
Total                    40.0       24.9       15.1
Estimated
Disbursements:       IDA FY             1978       1979       1980       1981
Annual              3.0       12.6       14.2       10.2
Cumulative          3.0       15.6       29.8       40.0
Appraisal
Report:              No. 1614a-IND, dated March 6, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATI]ONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
SMALIL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $40 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Small Enterprise Development Project.
The proceeds of the Credit: would be relent to Bank Indonesia for 20 years,
including four and one-half years of grade, with interest at 2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The last economiLc report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent Develop-
ments and Medium-Term Perspect-ive,!" of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND) described the
recovery of the economy from world recession and the financial troubles
of Pertamina, the state oiLl company, and examined some of the important
development issues which the country faces in the next few years.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-
1973/74),/2 the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed.
Transport, power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after
years of neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural
output expanded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and the foundations of
modern industry - fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period,
the annual rate of econom:ic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and
investments also rose rap:idly.
4.        With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government texpected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not
only a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. Progress in theses respects has been mixed. While there has been
considerable further improvement in the country's physical and social
infrastructure (power, roads, telecommunications, education, family planning),
much of the Government's attention and efforts have been focused on short-
term issues, the economic growth rate has tended to slacken, and public
concern with equitable distribution of income has grown. The first two
years of the Plan were dominated by the developments in the oil sector -
the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial
/1 This part is a modified and updated version of the one contained in the
President's Report No.. P-2201-IND, dated January 17, 1978, for the
Seventh Power Project.
/2  Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



-2-
difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and
diverse investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. Foreign
bank credit became more restrictive with the onset of world recession.
Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-term debt and failed to meet the
financial obligations which were falling due. In these circumstances, the
Government stepped in and assumed the oil company's obligations. The repay-
ment of these obligations, along with the fall in export earnings as a result
of the recession, necessitated large foreign commercial borrowing, seriously
strained the Government's budgetary resources and Indonesia's balance of
payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign exchange reserves.
5.        In most respects, the Government managed the Pertamina crisis
well, and the following two years (1976/77 and 1977/78) witnessed a substan-
tial improvement in the balance of payments and the Government's budgetary
position as well as a reduction in the rate of domestic inflation. During
1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly (following improvements in
the world economy), and rose to a higher level than anticipated. Imports
continued to increase rapidly but the rate of increase of import prices
slowed down, and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. These trends continued
into 1977/78, and resulted in substantial additions to the foreign exchange
reserves, which have averaged over $2 billion (or about four months of
imports) in the early months of 1978.
6.        The Government's budgetary position also improved in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also exceeded the
amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of government efforts to curb smuggling
and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional revenues
together with continued restraint on current expenditures enabled the
Government not only to increase development expenditures substantially
but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, and contributed to
bringing down the inflation rate to 14% a year compared to 20% in 1975/76.
The Government budget tightened in 1977/78, since oil as well as non-oil
revenues rose more modestly while the current expenditures rose more rapidly
largely due to an overdue general increase in civil servant salaries. As
a result, budgetary savings declined in real terms for the first time in
recent years. Nevertheless, through a cautious monetary policy, the
inflation rate was further reduced to about 10%.
7.        The substantial increase in oil revenues since 1974 has been
largely invested. Government development expenditures more than quadrupled
from 1973/74 to 1977/78 when they amounted to Rp 2.5 trillion (or about
$6 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation, this
represented a real increase of over 30% a year. Over this period, the rate
of gross domestic investment averaged about 22.5% of GNP. However, this
high level of investments has so far failed to increase the rate of growth
of the Indonesian economy; economic growth in the first four years of
Indonesia's Second Development Plan (1974/75-1976/77) has, in fact, been
slower than that in the First Plan period. The world recession, slackening



- 3 -
agricultural output and domestic inflation (which made some domestic industries
uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on the growth of the
economy. In addition, public investments in recent years has been concentrated
on relatively capital-intensive industrial and infrastructure projects with
long gestation periods. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from
investments in such sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc.,
depends on the growth in demand which in turn is determined by the growth
of the rest of the economy, mainly the private sector, which has failed to
provide the necessary momentum to growth. The indications are that private
investments rose only modestly in recent years for a number of reasons,
including the Government's attempts to control domestic inflation and to
encourage indigenous (pribumi) investors, and the uncertain state of the
world economy.
8.        Reliable data on recent trends in employment are not available.
The labor force has been increasing at a rate close to 1.2 million persons a
year, but the current leve:L of unemployment and the extent of underemployment
are not known. However, there is no indication that the labor market has
tightened or that the wages of unskilled workers have more than kept pace
with domestic inflation. Labor productivity and wages remain extremely low,
particularly in Java. On ithe other hand, the Government's efforts at family
planning appear to have yielded impressive results. Preliminary estimates
from an inter-censal survey in 1976 indicate that the birth rate in Java and
Bali has significantly declined since 1971. Nevertheless, population pressure
continues to increase on Java where an expanding work force, combined with a
limited supply of arable land, has already resulted in fragmented farms with
very low labor productivity, which has made farming a part-time activity.
Viable transmigration programs to open up new areas outside Java and programs
to create off-farm rural emnployment in Java are essential both to provide job
opportunities to new entrants into the labor force and to improve the produc-
tivity for the majority of the currently employed.
9.        Perhaps the most worrying development in recent years, and one with
important long-term implications, is the slackening in the rate of growth in
agricultural production, particularly of rice. Over the 1975-77 period, rice
output failed to rise appreciably; for 1977, rice production is estimated at
15.2 million tons, down 40% from the previous year, and over 10% below the
second plan target for that year. The domestic price of rice has been kept
stable only by means of very substantial imports. In 1976/77 rice imports
amounted to 1.6 million tons and in 1977/78 they are expected to reach 2.6 mil-
lion tons, or over 15% of domestic consumption and 30% of total world trade in
rice. The stagnation in rice output over the last two years, while reflecting
a complex of institutional and policy constraints, is primarily the result of
successive droughts and, in Java, the wereng (brown planthopper) infestation.
The Government is taking steps to remedy the bottlenecks in the supply of



- 4 -
agricultural inputs, but may have to further adjust the price ratio of rice
to fertilizer to encourage fertilizer use. However, long-term expansion of
food crop production and a substantial reduction in rice imports, require
prompt assessment of available land and water resources, accelerated construc-
tion of irrigation and drainage facilities, acceleration in land settlement
and transmigration programs based on food crop production and, most impor-
tantly, expansion and deepening of agricultural support services.
10.       The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and some burdensome ongoing investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in 1975 and 1976 has raised the level of debt
service, which is now projected to reach $1.6 billion in 1978 or more than
18% of projected export earnings compared to 13% in 1976. This does not take
into account the $255.8 million settlement in the dispute over the hire -
purchase contracts for tankers, which is to be repaid in four equal annual
installments in 1977-80, interest-free. However, a large cash loan made by
a syndicate of private banks in 1975 to help resolve the Pertamina crisis
was recently rolled over on more favorable terms. This provides an indication
of Indonesia's improved creditworthiness rating on international capital
markets and should also help reduce Indonesia's debt service ratio to under
15% by 1980. The Government has continued to exercise prudence in undertaking
new foreign commercial debt, and total external borrowing in 1977 remained well
within the limit of $2 billion that had been recommended in the last Bank
Economic Report. At the meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia
(IGGI) in April 1977, aid pledges of over $500 million from bilateral sources
were made. The likely commitments from those IGGI donor countries which did
not pledge, from the multilateral agencies and from OPEC and East European
countries should raise the total of official development assistance to
$1.5 billion.
11.       Net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline from
$1.56 billion in 1976/77 to about $640 million in 1980/81, or from about 5%
to 1% of GNP. At the same time, there is a growing doubt that crude
oil production can be increased much above the current level of 1.7 million
barrels a day during the next few years. Oil exploration activity in
Indonesia has remained much below the peak of 1975 partly as a result
of the renegotiation of the oil contracts in 1976 and partly on account of a
U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling which declared the oil revenues withheld
by the Government of Indonesia as royalties rather than tax for the purpose
of allowing income tax credit to the U.S. companies operating in Indonesia.
In the meantime no large new oil fields have been discovered, and, although
the Government has now offered improved incentives to the oil companies and
revised the contracts to meet the IRS objections, it is not certain that the
exploration activity would revive soon enough to make up for the time lost.



12.       The implication of recent developments for imports, net foreign
exchange earnings and future capital inflow requirements are currently under
study, but indications are that, while foreign exchange will be scarcer
over the coming years, Indonesia would be able to finance essential imports
of consumer, intermediate and capital goods and still meet its debt service
obligations. However, the relative decline in oil revenues will have serious
budgetary consequences. In order to maintain the relatively high rate of
domestic investment already reached, the Government would need to raise
substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming years. The Government
has been quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there does not
appear to be much scope for reducing them further; they should, in fact, rise
in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in
Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of
which is development-related. Nevertheless, despite the Government's efforts
to limit current expenditures and raise domestic revenue, there is likely to
be a serious domestic resource constraint in the coming years.
13.       The Government is fully aware of the serious concerns regarding
Indonesia's future development discussed above and will make them the focus
of the Third Development Plan which is now under preparation. In the meantime
the Bank is undertaking a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia, covering in depth such issues as domestic and foreign resource
mobilization, as well as trends and outlook for agricultural growth, popula-
tion, employment, and income distribution. This review is expected to assist
the Government's deliberations and preparation of the Third Plan; the final
report will be ready towards the end of 1978.
PART II. WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
14.      As of January 31, 1978, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits
totalling $561.8 million and 31 Bank loans amounting to $1,526 million. At
that date, IFC investments totaled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank
Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end
of 1976 was about 6% and the share of debt service, less than 1%. By 1978,
these ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments
as of December 31, 1977 as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.      To date, the BaLnk Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the IndonesiaLn economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which are counts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide inputs and advice to farmers and to promote
agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group. More
recently, a major effort. to aid the Government's transmigration program has
been initiated. In the industrial sector, the major thrust has been on
expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas resources and
on establishment and improvement of development finance institutions. The
main emphasis in education has been on improving primary and secondary
I



- 6 -
education, manpower training as well as on expanding non-formal education.
In the social sector, the Bank Group has also financed urban development,
through neighborhood improvement programs, urban water supplies and family
planning and nutrition. A major portion of Bank Group financing has been
used to rehabilitate and expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure,
particularly in the power and transportation sectors as well as in tele-
communications and tourism. Finally, the Bank Group has assisted the Govern-
ment's efforts to prepare and formulate its development program and projects
through four technical assistance credits and a loan for a natural resource
survey and mapping project.
16.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started with an IDA credit in 1968
for irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on loans and credits, which were slow in the early years,
are now at satisfactory levels. The Indonesian authorities have also become
increasingly aware of the cost to the country of delays in project execution,
caused by cumbersome procedures, and the need to establish an effective
control system in Bappenas (the National Development Planning Agency). At
the Government's request, the Bank arranged, in 1974, for assistance under the
Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring
and control system which is now in operation and which should lead to
improved project implementation not only of Bank Group assisted projects but
of development projects generally.
17.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work opportun-
ities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and which will increase agriculture production particularly of food
crops. Major efforts are needed to increase employment through programs
directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and their living standards;
these are expected to be the major focus of the Third Development Plan
(1979-84) which is now under preparation. To assist the Government, the Bank
Group has undertaken the major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia (mentioned above, para. 13). This review should help the Government
formulate policies and programs to expand food production, further reduce
population growth and expand nonfarm rural employment, particularly in Java.
While some of these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group finan-
cing, it will be some time before they are ready for implementation. Meantime,
the Bank Group expects to finance a number of already prepared projects and
project components designed to increase non-agricultural employment in the
rural areas and small towns. These include the proposed project, which would
help improve and expand a national program for the development of small-scale
enterprises, and an integrated rural development project in Yogyakarta. With
respect to agriculture development, projects are being prepared which would
improve and expand agriculture credit, research and extension services,
rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder rubber
and coconut plantations, and develop presently underutilized land in areas
outside Java for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition to the
population program, which continues to have high priority, other areas of



particular importance for BaLnk Group assistance will be improvement of urban
services through construction of urban water supply systems and further
expansion of neighborhood iumprovement/programs, and improvement and expansion
of higher education particularly of technicians, accountants and agriculture
specialists, as well as primary and secondary education. Finally, Bank Group
financing continues to be important for the Government's program of infrastruc-
ture rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and power, which
will continue to require very large investments for many years before these
facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development.
18.      Between 1968 and 1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA
terms. Following the rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled
Indonesia to borrow on less concessional terms, it was decided that all
lending to Indonesia after June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974,
the Government has saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil
revenues and greatly expanded its development expenditures which are expected
to reach about $6 billion in 1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above,
it now appears, however, that both the budgetary and balance of payments
situation is again likely to become more difficult in the years ahead. Thus,
while Indonesia has always qualified for assistance on concessional terms on
grounds of its low per capita income ($240 in 1977) and the quality of its
economic management, such terms are now also necessary to enable it to
maintain a high level of investment without impairing its ability to service
its external debt. The proposed credit is the first since 1974 to be
presented to the Executive Directors and will be followed by one more later
in the fiscal year.
19.      In the past few years, the Bank Group has financed, from time to
time, part of the local cos,t of projects with a low foreign exchange component,
particularly in the social sectors, in order to make a meaningful contribution
to the financing of these projects. As noted in Part I, Indonesia now faces
a more difficult financial situation, in part for reasons outside its control.
Despite the Government's eEforts to increase its non-oil revenues and limit
the growth of current expenditures, Government savings in real terms are likely
to increase very slowly, if at all. At the same time , the Government is
attempting to increase development expenditures, particularly for employment-
creating programs, as well as for programs and projects in agriculture and
the social sectors, the costs of which are largely in local currency. The
Bank Group cannot provide adequate assistance in these efforts if it limits
its financing to the foreign exchange cost of projects, and it is proposed
that some Bank Group projects should include increasing amounts for local
cost financing particularly in the case of projects designed to create
nonfarm employment, provide social services and raise agriculture production.
20.      The proposed credit is the fourth lending operation and first credit
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total
lending to Indonesia this year to $229 million. It would be the Bank Group's
first involvement in a small-enterprise development project in Indonesia.



- 8 -
Projects for rural credit, irrigation and nucleus estates and smallholders,
as well as an Engineering Loan for the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Project, are
expected to be ready for presentation in the next several months. The rural
credit project, by providing subloans of more than five years for agriculture
projects, would complement the proposed project, which provides such loans
for five years or less.
PART III - THE SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE AND THE FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector
21.       The small-scale enterprise sector has the potential to play an
increasingly important role in creating productive employment opportunities
at low cost in Indonesia. The annual increment to Indonesia's labor force is
currently about 1.2 million, and is projected to reach 1.3 million by 1980.
Given the limited capacity of Indonesian agriculture to absorb labor, partic-
ularly in Java, the bulk of new jobs will have to be created in the nonagri-
cultural sectors. Although reliable data on the comparative investment costs
per job created for the different sizes and types of enterprises are not
available, survey data on the manufacturing sector indicate an average fixed
asset/employee ratio of $11,000-22,000 for large- and medium-scale firms
(1978 prices) compared to $1,100-1,650 for small-scale industrial enterprises.
The already large base of small-scale enterprises, their low capital/labor
ratio and lower skill requirements make them suitable for absorbing a signifi-
cant portion of the already unemployed and new entrants to the labor force.
Rapid growth of the small-scale enterprise sector would also help develop
entrepreneurship, improve technical skills, and reduce urban-rural income
differentials and migration to the large cities.
22.       Small-scale enterprises in Indonesia range from some relatively
modern firms in manufacturing, construction, and transport to large numbers
of small farmers, traditional artisans and small traders. Sectors which are
predominantly small-scale and labor-intensive account for 88% of the workers
and 53% of GDP, of which the nonagricultural small enterprises provide 19% of
employment and over 16% of GDP. The agricultural sector, which contains the
majority of small enterprises, consists largely of smallholders (12-13 mil-
lion) who cultivate about 88% (13 million ha) of the cropped area, the
remainder being primarily large estates. Small-scale industrial enterprises,
defined as establishments having 1-4 employees with power equipment, and 5-9
without, account for over 65% of total employment in manufacturing but only
26% of industrial value added. Most small-scale industrial enterprises (85%)
are engaged in the manufacture of edibles and non-durable light consumer
goods (chiefly wood products and textiles). From 1968 to 1973, output and
employment of the small-scale industrial sector increased by only about 2.9%
and 1.7% per year, respectively, compared to 12% and 5.6% per year, in medium
and large industries, respectively. In transport, small-scale enterprises are
concentrated in road transport and, to a lesser extent, river transport. The



- 9 -
road transport industry has responded dramatically to improved roads and
economic conditions and the demand for services of the small-scale trans-
porters is likely to continue to grow rapidly as a result of increased
investment in roads and agriculture.
23.       Growth and productivity of the small-scale enterprise sector,
particularly in manufacturing, have been adversely affected by several
factors. The major internal constraints are poor management and inefficent
production techniques and equipment which hamper the emergence of modern
small-scale enterprises with strong growth potential. Limited access to
institutional credit is one of the most serious external constraints to
sector growth. Banks are generally wary of lending to small-scale enterprises
because of the higher administrative costs and risks involved, including the
difficulties in obtaining and foreclosing on collateral. In addition, small
enterprises generally lack direct access to the larger, more lucrative
markets due to poor quality control and design, limited production capacity,
and lack of market information. Finally, Government investment incentives
and technical support have generally been geared more to the needs of the
larger, more capital-intensive firms, than to the small-scale enterprises.
24.       Recognizing the constraints and need for developing small-scale
enterprises, the Government initiated in 1974, a program of financial
assistance in two parts, Small-Investment-Credit (Kredit Investasi
Kecil-KIK) and Small-Permanent-Working-Capital-Credit (Kredit Modal Kerja
Permanen-KMKP), and has been strengthening the agricultural and industrial
extension services. Until 1974, the only important credit programs for
small-scale enterprises were short-term agricultural production schemes,
especially BIMAS (a farm input-credit program). The KIK/KMKP program con-
stitutes at present the main channel for official medium-term credit to
small-scale enterprises in Indonesia. It supports virtually all sectors:
manufacturing (26%), agriculture (17%), tourism and trade (39%), transport
(15%) and other services (3%). Under the guidance of Bank Indonesia the
program utilizes the funcds, staff, and branch network of the state and
private banking systems.
25.       The Government, with Bank Group assistance, is implementing a
number of projects for improving agricultural extension. The Second Education
Project (Credit 288), established training centers for upgrading and expanding
middle-level agricultural training. The Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (Loan 1179) finances research programs for major crops, and centers
for disseminating to farmers the latest research information, and food crop
extension services are being expanded and strengthened in nine provinces
under the National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267).
26.       The major exte,nsion program directed towards small-scale industrial
enterprises, Guidance and Development of Small-Scale Industries (BIPIK), was
introduced in 1974, by thne Department of Industry, with UNDP/UNIDO assistance.
The objective of BIPIK is to assist small-scale industries in management,
marketing, and technology by strengthening and expanding the industrial
extension service, establishing specialized training centers for entre-
preneurs, and developing integrated programs for specific subsectors. Imple-
mentation of BIPIK has been slow due to the lack of a full-time field staff



- 10 -
and of a central management unit with effective responsibility for overall
planning, coordination, and implementation. In addition, coordination with
the banks and other agencies has been limited; to rectify this situation,
the Government recently formed a coordinating committee comprising, among
others, representatives from Bank Indonesia and the Departments of Industry,
Manpower, Trade, and Finance. Furthermore, pilot extension service centers
were established in 1977/78 in Central and East Java to train the first
full-time BIPIK extension staff and to develop extension programs for priority
subsectors. Based on the experience of these pilot centers, the Government
intends to establish a nationwide network of such centers. With adequate
Government support these could form the nucleus of an effective industrial
extension service for small-scale enterprises.
27.       The Government has requested UNIDO assistance for BIPIK program
planning and for the development of pilot extension service centers. In
addition, the proposed project would aim to better identify the needs of
KIK/KMKP borrowers for assistance from BIPIK and other technical agencies.
In the preparation of subsectoral development programs under the project,
Bank Indonesia would seek functional cooperation with other government
agencies such as BIPIK, the agricultural extension services, provincial
planning agencies, universities and technical and vocational training
institutes. Additional efforts to provide extension support to small-scale
industrial enterprises are being developed. The Bank Group, for its part,
will undertake a detailed study of the small industry sector to identify its
problems and priorities and to design operational action programs of technical
assistance.
The Financial Sector
28.       The Indonesian financial system is still in its early stages of
development in terms of diversity of institutions, financial services offered
and financial instruments available for mobilizing savings. The core of the
system is a large commercial banking sector dominated by five state banks and
regulated by the central bank, Bank Indonesia. The financial system's total
assets have increased sharply in recent years, from $2.4 billion at the end
of 1972, to $8.6 billion at year-end 1976, due largely to the expansion of
the commercial banking sector. Most lending to date has been short-term.
29.       The five state commercial banks accounted for nearly 80% of all
bank credits outstanding as of December 31, 1976. These banks' main sources
of funds are credits from Bank Indonesia under refinancing facilities, and
deposits. From 1972 through 1976, total assets, deposits, and outstanding
credits of state commercial banks all increased at average annual rates of
40-50%. This period of rapid growth has accentuated the state banks' reliance
on Bank Indonesia credits. Partly because of continued low profitability
from 1972 through 1976, the state commercial banks have not been building up
sufficient provisions for doubtful loans which rose sharply during the
period. To remedy this situation, Government and Bank Indonesia have, inter
alia, asked the state banks to exercise tighter control over their operations
and improve their loan collection performance. In general, the Government
has made it clear that the state banks have to improve their performance and
that it expects steady progress in this regard.



- 11 -
30.       In addition to the state-owned and privately owned commercial
banks, there are 29 develcpment banks in Indonesia, consisting of the state-
owned Development Bank of Indonesia (BAPINDO), which is by far the largest,
26 regional development baLnks wholly or partially owned by provincial govern-
ments, and two joint-venture banks, the Indonesian Development Finance Corpor-
ation and the Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia. BAPINDO
finances primarily large- and medium-scale projects in both the public and
private sectors; the other development banks cater to somewhat smaller
enterprises. The regional development banks, because of both a lack of term
funds and a shortage of st:aff with necessary skills, have made only short-term
loans until recently. Under co-financing arrangements with BAPINDO, some of
these banks have now begun to venture into term lending under the KIK/KMKP
program.
31.       Over the last few years, the Government has attempted to remedy some
of the shortcomings of the financial sector, particularly its short-term
orientation. With Bank Group assistance, BAPINDO was reorganized with a view
to making it the predominant source of medium- and long-term finance for the
larger Indonesian enterpr:ises. With IFC and Canadian International Develop-
ment Agency assistance, Bank Indonesia initiated a program to upgrade the
operating procedures of the five state commercial banks. Under this program,
a team of Canadian experts carried out an in-depth evaluation of the
accounting and credit proczedures used by each bank; this has led to detailed
programs for reform, which are now being implemented. To help address the
need for long-term funds, the Government instituted, in 1969, the General
Investment Credit (Kredit Investasi Besar - KIB) program, supplemented later
by the KIK/KMKP program.
32.       Bank Indonesia sets the interest rates applied by the state banks,
and these, in turn, largely determine the general interest rate level in the
economy. At present, deposit rates range from 6% per year for six-month time
deposits with state banks, to 12-15% for 24-month time deposits. Short-term
lending rates of state banks range from 12% for many Government-sponsored
programs (such as BIMAS), to 21% for general loans. Lending rates for
investment loans are 10.5% up to Rp 75 million, 12% for Rp 75-200 million,
and 13.5% above Rp 200 million. State-owned financial institutions can
afford to engage in term-financing operations, as they receive direct interest
rate subsidies from Government for time deposits, and a substantial portion
of their lending is refinanced by Bank Indonesia at low rates (3% to 8%).
The interest rate structure prevents, however, the private domestic banks
from engaging in term-financing because they are not eligible for interest
rate subsidies or low-rate refinancing from Bank Indonesia and cannot therefore
compete with state banks for long-term deposits. The Government keeps the
interest rate structure under continuous review, as indicated by its decision
in January 1978 to reduce both lending and deposit rates.
33.       The inflation rate has significantly declined since 1975 as a result
of the Government's policy of curbing the expansion of liquidity, and is pro-
jected to average around 10% over 1978-80 (para. 6). If this materializes,
the rates being charged for small investment (10.5%) and small permanent
working capital (12%) credits would represent low but positive real rates.



- 12 -
34.       Objectives and Problems of the KIK/KMKP Program.  The primary
objective of the KIK/KMKP program is to facilitate access of Indonesian
(indigenous) small-scale enterprises to institutional term-finance. To this
end, fairly lenient qualifying conditions have been prescribed and simple
credit procedures devised. Policy and program formulation and central admini-
stration of KIK/KMKP are Bank Indonesia's responsibility; implementation of
the program has been assigned to the five state commercial banks, certain
private commercial banks, and to BAPINDO. Selected regional development
banks also participate under cofinancing arrangements with BAPINDO. Nation-
wide, some 600 bank branches are presently lending to small enterprises under
KIK/KMKP. Bank Indonesia refinances 80% of KIK loans and 75% of KMKP loans.
The five state-owned commercial banks, private commercial banks, plus the
regional development banks, known collectively as the "handling banks,"
provide the remainder of the finance and make the individual loans. To be
eligible, a borrower's net worth must not exceed Rp 20 million ($48,000) and
his current assets, Rp 10 million ($24,000). Maximum loan maturities are
five years for KIK and three years for KMKP. The individual loan ceiling is
generally Rp 5 million ($12,000), which was probably an appropriate level
when the program began in 1974. Since then, however, prices in Indonesia
have almost doubled, and, as a result, the larger small-scale enterprises are
being progressively excluded from the program. Recognizing this, Bank
Indonesia has decided to increase the general loan ceiling from time to time
to take into account increases in price levels, and, in addition, to make
exceptions, on a category-by-category basis, to both the loan ceiling and the
five-year maturity limit, as justified by appraisal reports on category-
specific lending programs.
35.       All productive activities in industry, agriculture, trade and
services are eligible for KIK/KMKP financing. The program has provided large
amounts of much-needed finance to small-scale enterprises (some $230 million,
from 1974 through 1976), and both Bank Indonesia and the handling banks have
generally been able to maintain financial control and channel the funds to
worthwhile enterprises. However, experience has shown that the program has a
number of weaknesses: it is less attractive financially for the handling
banks than some other lending operations; handling bank staff have had little
special training; emphasis has been on making loans, less on supervising or
collecting them; data collection and management information have been limited;
and advisory and support services, such as BIPIK, have been relatively weak.
Chief among these problems is the hesitancy of some handling banks to increase
KIK/KMKP lending, because of the build up of doubtful loans and because gross
spreads of 5.8% on KIK and 6.7% on KMKP are viewed as barely adequate to
cover administrative costs and the residual default risk.
36.       Based on the best evidence available for KIK loans, the collections
rate on principal for the five state commercial banks appears to have declined
from 74% in 1974, to 66% in 1975, and 52% in 1976. These figures reflect the
low profitability of many small-scale enterprises, which result in part from
the inadequacy of Government's extension and support programs, as well as the
high risk of these loans due partly to the uneven quality of project appraisal,
supervision and collection efforts by the handling banks, and the difficulty
in foreclosing on loans.



- 13 -
37.       To overcome these problems, Bank Indonesia will carry out a study
of the handling banks' total administrative and financial costs, utilizing
the services of project consultants as appropriate (Section 2.09 (b) of the
draft Project Agreement). Results of the study would assist Bank Indonesia
in carrying out its policy of setting KIK/KMKP terms and conditions so as to
provide the handling banks with an adequate incentive to expand their KIK/KMKP
lending. In addition, to. keep the handling banks from losing money on
amounts in arrears and tc ensure that borrowers have incentives to repay on
schedule, Bank Indonesia will cause all banks lending under the program to
enforce the existing 3% penalty interest (in addition to the regular interest)
on KIK/KMKP loans not eligible for rescheduling and more than 90 days in
arrears (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement), so that borrowers in
arrears would have to pay an interest rate (13.5% on KIK, 15% on KMKP)
higher than the maximum rate they would earn (12% on balances exceeding
Rp 2.5 million) by puttinig their funds into time deposits. Additionally,
Bank Indonesia would cause each handling bank to take the necessary measures
to ensure that handling bank branches participating in the project achieve
and maintain a satisfactory level of KIK loan collections, with special
attention to handling bank branches which have not yet achieved annual
collection rates of 70%. These measures and their impact would be reviewed
jointly by Bank Indonesia and the Association each year; such reviews, from
1980 onwards, would include, inter alia, setting collection targets for the
current calendar year for each handling bank in each province of the project
area (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was originally appraised in April/May 1976.  Follow-up
discussions were held in March and November 1977, and negotiations, in
Washington, from December 13 to December 19, 1977. The Indonesian negotiating
team was led by Dr. Julianto Mulyodihardjo, Director General for Monetary
Affairs, Department of Finance. The appraisal report, No. 1614a-IND, dated
March 6, 1978, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Components
39.       The primary objective of the project would be to improve incomes of
small farmers and small businessmen, and provide additional employment
opportunities, by assisting Bank Indonesia in strengthening the ongoing
KIK/KMKP program and laying the basis for a gradual improvement of Government
technical services to small-scale enterprises. The project would both
improve the program's quality and expand the quantity of lending, and would
consist of the following:
(a) finance for the KIK program in the provinces of Central Java,
East Java and West Sumatera ($60.5 million);



- 14 -
(b) strengthening of KIK/KMKP program management and supervision
in Bank Indonesia's head office ($0.95 million) with: (i) a
Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) assisted by a Project
Advisor, a Small-Business Advisor and an Agricultural Advisor;
(ii) a KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor; and (iii) a Credit-Data
Systems Expert;
(c) establishment of Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs)
assisted by teams of consultants, and short-term consultancy,
as required, in Bank Indonesia's branches in each of the three
project provinces ($3.73 million);
(d) development and implementation of a training program for KIK/KMKP
loan officers and supervisors ($2.32 million);
(e) a study of existing and potential credit insurance arrangements for
KIK/KMKP ($0.20 million);
(f) an evaluation study of the project's impact ($0.40 million); and
(g) a study of the handling banks' total administrative and financial
costs under KIK/KMKP ($0.20 million).
Detailed Features
40.       Credit.  The project would finance all KIK lending by the five state-
owned commercial banks, selected private commercial banks/I, and the regional
development banks in the three project provinces for about two and one half
years. The three provinces have been selected because they have good potential
as well as great need for small enterprise development. It is estimated that
about 10,000 loans averaging about $6,000 (in 1978 prices) would be made by
the approximately 200 branches involved. The sectoral distribution, based on
past lending in the project provinces, is estimated to be trade 27%, industry
23%, transport 23%, agriculture 23%, and other 4%. The appraisal procedures
used by the handling banks are generally satisfactory, and with additional
training, the application of these procedures by the loan officers should
continue to improve, ensuring that most subprojects are financially viable.
Models have not been developed to assess the economic and financial viability
of the wide range of activities financed by KIK in the project provinces, but
under the project, PPMUs would develop subsectoral lending programs whose
economic and financial returns would be calculated based on such models.
41.       Although the credit component of the project would be limited to
KIK lending, the institutional development components of the project would
cover KMKP as well as KIK, and Bank Indonesia has agreed that KMKP loans
would be made, as needed, to project subborrowers.
/1 Bank Indonesia would select the private commercial banks allowed to
participate in lending under the project, on the basis of eligibility
criteria agreed upon with the Association.                           V



- 15 -
42.       As KIK is an on-going program which is generally proceeding satis-
factorily, the presently existing KIK loan terms and conditions, policies and
procedures would initially be adopted, except that:
(a) the five-year maturity limit and Rp 5 million loan ceiling would
be adjusted, as justified, on a category-by-category basis
(para. 34);
(b)  in the project provinces, handling banks would take appropriate
measures to ensure that their branches achieve and maintain a
satisfactory level of KIK loan collection performance (para. 37).
At negotiations, Bank Indonesia and the Association reviewed and agreed upon
a list of the main rules and regulations of the KIK/KMKP program. These
rules and regulations could subsequently be modified by Bank Indonesia
provided that such modifications would not materially and adversely affect
the objectives or execution of the project (Section 5.01 of the draft Credit
Agreement). Further modifications in KIK policies and procedures might
follow from the study by the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor. At negotiations,
Bank Indonesia and the Association also agreed on a KIK/KMKP policy and
strategy statement (Annex 15 of the Staff Appraisal Report).
43.       Technical Assistance.  The consultants to be provided under the
project would be located mainly in Bank Indonesia, but would in substantial
part, work with the handling banks. Placing the advisors in Bank Indonesia
is the most effective means of providing technical assistance to the entire
program, since Bank Indonesia has responsibility for developing the main
policies of KIK/KMKP, and supervising their implementation by the handling
banks. The technical assistance component of the project is substantial, due
to the size, importance and needs of the KIK/KMKP program; however, Bank
Indonesia's need for advisors on the KIK/KMKP program is expected to be
reduced over the project period.
44.       The Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) would be given overall
responsibility for project implementation. The CPMU would be headed by a
full-time Project Manager, a Small-Business Advisor, an Agricultural Advisor
and two or three professional staff. It would manage the KIK/KMKP program in
the three project provinces and coordinate the work on the KIK/KMKP program
being done by other units in Bank Indonesia's head office, the PPMUs, the
Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI), ASKRINDO, and
the handling banks. It would also advise Bank Indonesia on policy issues
related to KIK/KMKP, and would be responsible for recruitment and supervision
of the other project consultants. In addition, the CPMU would coordinate
credit policies under KIK/KMKP with those of other term-lending programs,
including the proposed Rural Credit Project.
45.       The KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor, would study existing KIK/KMKP
procedures together with c:ounterpart Bank Indonesia staff, and recommend
changes to the CPMU's Directors as required.



- 16 -
46.       The Planning and Program Development Section in Bank Indonesia's
Production Loan Division would coordinate and assist in planning and develop-
ing both the agricultural and nonagricultural program lending and other
KIK/KMKP development activities of the PPMUs and planning units of the hand-
ling banks concerned. This section would be assisted by two CPMU consultants -
the Small-Business Advisor and the Agricultural Advisor - who would review
nonagricultural and agricultural programs, respectively. Staff of this
section would be seconded to the PPMUs to gain program planning and development
experience. The Agricultural Advisor would work in close cooperation with
Bank Rakyat Indonesia, which is expected to handle almost two-thirds of the
lending under this project; he would review agricultural programs put forward
by Bank Rakyat for lending under this project, as well as under the proposed
Rural Credit Project.
47.       The Credit Data Systems Expert and his counterpart would work to
improve and expand Bank Indonesia's system for the collection and computer
analysis of KIK/KMKP data, especially to cover loan repayment statistics.
They would also assist the handling banks to obtain the management information
they need on KIK/KMKP, to implement the monitoring and reporting system of
the project, and to estimate KIK/KMKP operating costs.
48.       Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs) would be established in
three Bank Indonesia branches: Surabaya (East Java), Semarang (Central Java)
and Padang (West Sumatera). A senior official of the Bank Indonesia branch
would be the head of each unit and would report to the Project Manager.
Staff would consist of a five-man (four-man in West Sumatera) team of con-
sultants, satisfactory to the Association, who are experts in development
banking, economics and small enterprise development, and Indonesian counter-
parts drawn from the supervisory and credit-planning units of Bank Indonesia
and the handling banks. The counterparts would be seconded to the PPMUs for
periods of about one year each.
49.       The first major function of the PPMUs would be KIK/KMKP program
development, for individual projects, subsectoral categories (e.g. shoemaking,
mini-bus transport, fishing boats), area development, and pilot schemes for
new approaches to small enterprise development (e.g. subcontracting, hire
purchase, marketing cooperatives). The PPMUs would cooperate on a selective
basis with other Government agencies (BIPIK, agricultural extension services,
provincial planning agencies, universities), and would bring in short-term
consultants, as needed, on specialized technical issues. Appraisal reports
for programs developed by the PPMUs would be submitted to the Planning and
Program Development Section of Bank Indonesia's Production Loan Division, for
review. Following their approval by Bank Indonesia's Board, these reports
would be made available to the relevant handling banks, for implementation.
50.       The second major task of the PPMUs, especially for their development
bankers, would be to give on-the-job training to the loan officers and their
supervisors in promotion, identification, investigation, evaluation, estab-
lishment of terms and conditions, supervision and collection of loans,
including coordination between the investment (KIK) and working-capital
(KMKP) components of the loan packages. Based on their experience, the PPMUs



- 17 -
would also make recommendations for improvement in overall KIK/KMKP procedures,
channelling these through Bank Indonesia's KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor. In
addition, the PPMUs would acquaint themselves with the service capabilities
of the various technical agencies in the three provinces, and advise the loan
officers where to refer prospective borrowers for the technical assistance
the banks themselves are unable to give. Within three months of starting
work in the field, each PPMU, in agreement with the CPMU and the handling
banks, would prepare its first annual work program.
51.       Training.  About 500 loan officers would handle KIK/KMKP in the
approximately 200 branches in the three project provinces. In addition to
on-the-job training, formal classroom training in small enterprise development
finance would be needed for these 500 loan officers, their 200 credit depart-
ment heads and 200 branch managers (or assistant branch managers), and
perhaps 50-70 regional/head office staff. The Institution for the Develoment
of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI) would train the higher-level staff in the
broader issues underlying the KIK/KMKP program and the project, whereas the
handling banks themselves; would provide all of the classroom training for the
loan officers, and would also train the supervisory staff in matters specific
to each bank, such as the bank's own procedure manual for KIK/KMKP loans, and
problems of the sector in which the bank has primary responsibility.
52.       In October 1977, two Small-Enterprise Credit Training Experts were
hired by Bank Indonesia tnder the project, with the Association's agreement,
and assigned to LPPI for three years. The consultants will prepare, for
review by Bank Indonesia and the Association, a detailed plan for training
of loan officers and supervisors involved in the project. To maximize the
consultants' long-run impact, LPPI will also appoint a small enterprise
credit instructor for its permanent staff, to work with the consultants and
carry on after they have left (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
In addition, under the project, funds would be made available to cover 50% of
the handling banks' training costs of loan officers and supervisors involved
in the project.
53.       Credit Insuran,ce Study.  Although the credit insurance system
administered by ASKRINDO has helped induce a high level of KIK/KMKP lending,
it has not materially improved access to credit for enterprises lacking
collateral, as Bank Indonesia requires that the banks take collateral equal to
at least 100% of the loan amount, and the banks typically require much more.
Furthermore, the credit insurance procedures are cumbersome, and the premium
appears to be inadequate. Under the project, a major review of the credit-
insurance system for KIK/KMKP would be undertaken by Government. The study
would consider both improvements in the present system and alternative
arrangements (Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement).
54.       Evaluation Study.  Under the project, Bank Indonesia will contract
out a three-year evaluation study of project lending to a suitable Indonesian
research center or university (Section 2.09 (a) of the draft Project Agree-
ment). The study would evaluate the impact of loans on production, employment,
technology change and access to new markets, using a sample of subloans. It



- 18 -
would also examine the problems encountered by small entrepreneurs, and
would estimate the need for, and availability of, technical support from
Government agencies.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       Total project cost is estimated at $80.0 million, of which foreign
exchange costs would be $21.5 million, or 27% of the total.  The credit
component of the project has been determined on the basis of the projected
KIK lending in the three provinces over two-and-a-half years based on an
estimated 9% annual increase in lending in real terms during the project
period.  Real growth is expected to continue as the programs developed by the
PPMUs are implemented, and no shortage of loan demand is anticipated, but
staff limitations and the growing supervision and collection burden facing
the handling banks are expected to keep the growth rate moderate over the
project period, while the basis is being laid for sustained growth over the
longer term.
56.       The proposed IDA credit of $40.0 million equivalent would finance
50% of total project cost including $18.6 million of local costs as follows:
(a) the KIK program in an amount of $33.8 million (consisting of $17.5 mil-
lion in foreign exchange and $16.3 million in local currency); and (b) tech-
nical assistance and training in an amount of $6.2 million (consisting of
$3.9 million in foreign exchange and $2.3 million in local currency).
Consultant costs would average $80,000 (1978 prices) per man-year, of which
about 60% would be foreign exchange. About $1.2 million of retroactive
financing is recommended in the proposed credit for the Project Advisor,
the Small-Business Advisor and for the PPMUs (para. 61). The terms of
references and the consultants have been agreed upon by the Association.
57.       The IDA credit would be made to the Government, which, as in the
case of previous Bank Group operations in the financial sector, would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The Government would pass on the funds to Bank
Indonesia, the executing agency, at 2% interest, with a maturity of 20 years
including 4-1/2 years grace on principal. The funds would be further passed
on to the handling banks at 3% as part of the 80% of KIK loans rediscounted
by Bank Indonesia.
Procurement
58.       Given the small size, great variety and wide geographic spread of
the subloans, bulking of procurement for the purposes of carrying out competi-
tive bidding would not be feasible. However, the appraisal report for each
program that would be developed, and would include proposed actions to ensure
that goods and services were procured at competitive prices.
59.       During the first three years of the KIK/KMKP program, no circular
had been issued to the handling banks on either procurement or loan disburse-
ment procedures. As a result, each handling bank, and in practice often each
branch, determined its own policy. To correct this situation, Bank Indonesia
issued in November 1977, a directive to the handling banks stating that,



- 19 -
wherever feasible, (a) borrowers would obtain and submit to the handling bank
three price quotations from suppliers/contractors, (b) disbursements would be
made directly to the supplier/contractor, and (c) disbursements would be made
in tranches, after inspections to ensure that the project was being carried
out properly. The KIK/KMKP' Procedures Advisor would later examine the
handling banks' procurement: and disbursement procedures, and recommend
further improvements as warranted.
Disbursement
60.       The withdrawal applications would be submitted by the CPMU, and
disbursements would be made on the following basis: (a) 100% of total
expenditures for expatriate and Indonesian consultants; (b) 50% of handling
bank costs for staff training; and (c) 60% of amounts disbursed by Bank
Indonesia to handling banks for the credit component, representing 48% of
total subloan amounts, supported by certificates of expenditure prepared by
Bank Indonesia indicating ithat equivalent amounts had been disbursed to
project subborrowers. For purposes of complying with the disbursement
procedure in respect of project subloans, the established procedures and
documentation by which Bank Indonesia reviews, approves and rediscounts
subloans are considered adequate. The loan-by-loan documentation for the
certificates of expenditure would be retained by the handling banks and made
available for review by thie Association. Applications for withdrawal of
funds in respect of consultants' services and handling bank staff training
under (a) and (b) above, would be fully documented in accordance with
standard IDA requirements. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1981.
Project Implementation
61.       The project will be carried out by Bank Indonesia with the assist-
ance of the handling banks and consultants and experts described earlier.
Project sublending is expected to begin April 1, 1978. Implementation of
project management and technical assistance to Bank Indonesia are well
advanced. The Project Advisor was appointed in June 1976, the Small Business
Advisor in January 1977, and the Credit Data Systems Expert in February 1978,
all with the approval of the Association. In September 1977, Bank Indonesia
appointed the Project Manager, in consultation with the Association. By
September 1, 1978, the KIK/KMKP Procedures Advisor and the Agricultural
Advisor would be appointed with the agreement of the Association. During
negotiations, Bank Indonesia and the Association jointly reviewed and
agreed upon draft terms of reference, organization and operating guidelines
for the CPMU. For the PPMUs, contracts have been signed with three firms,
one for each project province, on terms satisfactory to the Association.
The first PPMU consultants began working in October 1977. As a condition of
disbursement of the credit component of the IDA credit for each province, the
PPMU head would have been appointed, after an exchange of views with the
Association (Schedule 1, para 3(b), of the draft Credit Agreement). Bank
Indonesia has already informed the Association of its choices for these
positions.



- 20 -
62.       Bank Indonesia would submit quarterly progress reports and "Annual
Review and Planning Papers" prepared by the CPMU to the Association; the
latter would form the basis of joint annual reviews of the project by Bank
Indonesia and the Association. In addition, each handling bank branch would
maintain up-to-date files, maps and financial summaries of its project
subloans, available for review by the Association.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       The project would provide needed technical and financial assistance
to make KIK/KMKP a more effective and efficient system for channelling develop-
ment finance to small enterprises. In two important respects, KIK/KMKP is
already supporting the Government's economic and social objectives. First,
it is supporting a labor-intensive sector. Project lending would create
about 18,000 jobs at an investment cost of about $3,300 per job in the small
enterprise sector (compared to $11,000-20,000 for medium- and large-scale
industry). In the development of subsectoral lending programs under the
project, special attention would be paid to the use of labor-intensive
technologies. Second, 65% of KIK/KMKP finance is going to small cities and
rural areas, which is a much higher share than for most other private-sector
investments.
64.       Previous surveys have not provided sufficient data for estimating
project financial and economic rates of return; in the evaluation study,
however, these rates of return would be calculated ex-post for a sample of
subloans. As with most credit programs to the private sector, the primary
guarantee of satisfactory financial returns on the individual loans lies in
properly guided and regulated self-interest of the borrowers. The project
would improve KIK/KMKP lending operations to help ensure that adequate
financial returns are secured and complemented by satisfactory economic
returns.
65.       The project would also strengthen the handling banks' term-lending
capabilities, thereby reducing the administrative costs of lending, improving
collections, and inducing more lending for qualified new clients. These
indicators would be monitored under the project.
66.       The major risk is that much of the project lending would have only
limited developmental impact if advisory services and other technical support
were not made available to project subborrowers. To alleviate this risk, the
PPMUs would acquaint themselves with the service capabilities of the various
technical agencies in the project provinces, advise the handling bank loan
officers where to refer prospective subborrowers for needed technical assis-
tance, and cooperate on a selective basis with such agencies when develop-
ing specific subsectoral lending programs. Furthermore, by assessing the
extent of, and the need for, technical support to subborrowers, the project
would lay the groundwork for subsequent improvements in these services.



- 21 -
67.       An additional risk to the project is that the hesitancy of some of
the handling banks to expand their KIK/KMKP lending would grow more serious
as costs, particularly of- doubtful loans, mount and make them unwilling to
support the project actively.  To reduce this risk, the project would endeavor
to ensure that KIK/KMKP ]Lending was profitable to the handling banks, so that
improvements to, and expansion of, the program would be done on a voluntary
basis. The main steps towards this end would be (a) a review of the interest
rate margin to the handliLng banks (para. 36), (b) direct efforts to reduce
arrears (para. 36), and (c) training handling bank staff, improving KIK/KMKP
procedures, and channelliLng existing lending into well-defined programs
whenever appropriate, whiLch should all tend to reduce administrative costs
and improve collections performance. Furthermore, to help ensure that the
handling banks and the project consultants work in concert, staff from the
regional and head offices of the handling banks would be assigned as counter-
parts to the PPMU consultants, and the handling banks would participate in
scheduling the PPMUs' operations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft CrediLt Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
Bank Indonesia, the report of the Committee provided for in Article VI,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and the text of
a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditiLons of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report.
70.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 15, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                    Page 1 of 4 pages
INDONESrA            -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                    ---*-
-------------                         ~~~~~INDONESIA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1,70)
TOTAL      1904.3                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      283.8                         1960       1970   ESTIMATE             BIANGLADESIC    INDIA           PHILIPPINES**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS                          00* 100               400)8.*                          100          230.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             94.7       117.8      135.2 /a~              70.8       547.6         36..9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.               -          50.0       62.0       71.0 Ia             492.0        167.0        123.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         337.0      419.0       476.0  ah            730.0        300.0        375.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)            46.0       45.9       42.9                 50.3         41.0         44.2
CRUDE DEATH kA~TE (/THOU,AV)            25.4       20.6        16.9                22.9         19.0         13.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         125.0O La-    :-           *..                              .1.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)          47.5s         .       48.1                 43.3         47.2         55.5
GRoSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2.0 IC    3.2          3.1                 3.1          2.9          3.3
POPUL,'TION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                    2.1        2.0         2.4                 2.8          2.3          3.0
URBAN                                     ..        3.7 /a~   4.1                   6.2          3.2          4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             14.9        17.5 lb   18.2                   6.4        19.8         27.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)                   4. 
0 TO 14 YEARS                         42.  a.  44.0          43.9                    .         41.6        45.0
IS TO 64 YEARS                         55 3  ~ 53.5           53.6J                   .         55.3        51.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                        2:6 T!    2.5          2.5~   .3.1                                   2.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       0.0        0.9         0.9                   .           .            .
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.4           .        1 .31 /b                        01, /a.   01.95
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE.  THOU)             ..      2S9.3 IC 678B.2L                    ..    14585.0        320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..          .           ..                               .2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          34600.0           .. 44200.0.1b             22300.0   218000.0       12400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)            75.0          .        69.0 l              71.0         69.(    5.0   s.la
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              5.4                    5.4   Id..7.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUiSEHOLDS                 ..                 33.7                16.7 Ia      25.0 lb
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                  .          .       52.0                 42 42.3 7i-a   53.1 t
LOwEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 .                    6.0 aj               7.9 TX       4.77
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..                  17.3                 19.o.7-a   13.1 1
DISTRIBUTION OP LAND OWNERSHIIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              46.0                                        3 
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             3.0 l                                        :
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              41300.0 IL26830.0   16930.0                  7800.0 IC  4890.0
POPULATION PER NUR..ING PERSON                    7770.0 Ld   O.   LL             703.          5220.0 .LC~
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             1370:;LLb 167.0        140.0               61 203.0OT   11.            5.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)            89.0       91.0       90.0                 88.0 Ie    93.0           93.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 43.0       43.0       43.8                   S.-         3.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            is:oL'L    14.0       16.6                   ..         16.0        22.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                 ..          .           ..                               .6.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         67.0       68.0        79.0                 50.0  f      65.0       113.0
SEcONDARY SCHOOL                         5.0       12.0        19.0                is.ol          ..        49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                12.0       12.0       12.0                 10.0         12.0        10.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONOARY)                       20.0        29.0       32.0                  1.           6./d        6.0 lb
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   47.0 /fe   59.0        62.0 1kh.                        33.0 -
HOUSIN4G
PERSONS PL'. ROOM (URBAN)                   .                     1.6 /b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUTI
PIPED WATER (%)                           ..          .          ..                                .        76.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
1% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                      ..          .          ..                                .        23.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                        ..          .           ..                               .7.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             7.0o         .       39.0                   6.0        21.0         72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOu POP)              1.0         2.    30                        0.41080
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              15.0       20.0       26.00                 20.0       114.0        235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  0.          .           .                    01         0.3          2.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data fo 1960 refer to aoy year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for MO-at Recent Estimaete between
1973 and 1975.
O GNP par ..Pit. date are b...d on the World Rank Atlas methodology (1974-76 beati).
00The Philippines h.. been ..lected as an objective country for it. geographical aiilarity and bersuc of its apparent ad-anc  stage of economic
d-vlcpmsot.
DI)ONES IA      1960     /a  Excludes West Irian;         lb  1962;    Ic  1951-56;         Id  t961-63;    /a  10 years and over, ability to read and write,
io either Latin or non-Latin  characte_rs.
1970    Is  1961-71;    lb  1971;    Ic  1968-70;    /d  lncluding nurse-midvivea.
MOST REC  ENT gstATLE:       /a  1976;      lb  1971;       /a  1968-75;    /d  Mmetly un  loyed workers seeking their first job;    toIs  mo
recipients;      If  Including midwives ;    L   Net inollment;    /h  10 years and over, ability to reed  and
write in either Latin or non-Latin characters.
BANGLADESH      1970    La  1966-67;    lb  1967-68;    lc  Registered, not all practicing in the country;                    -d  Govertaient hospital  statbllsehuents
only;    /a  Average 1969-71;    L.f  Approximaete enrollment mas percentage of population ini 6-10 and 11-15 age groupa
INfDIA          1973     Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 1.5 and over;    lb  1967-68;                    /c  Including midwives;
/d 1967.
PHILIPPONES   1970    Ia  As p-ontage of amptoysset;    lb  Not  including private vocational schonle.
RIS, January 26, 1978
ODImTll0Og OF SOCIALI.N3DICATO"
-I Al.. (th.u he;)                                                                            Population perut.inum     pmrson - Pepulatiom  divided by nsber of Practicing
o,,1-Totelsrfc  area comprtisig land area and inland waters                      .              masnd f-nla graduate mrea., "traind" or  certlfied" nursa, and
(uric. -Moat recent .atinat. of agiut rair   used temporaily or Pemt-                             sailiar   personnel with training or experimen.
nan tly for crops, Pasture, tarkt &, bitches gardens or to lie fellow,.                       population Par hospital bed - Population disided by awbar of hospital beds
wvailable in Public end private general and specialised hoepital end
GNP 2ar capita  (013) - GNP per capita e-cinta- at currnnt market prices,                         reafbilitation  -tests; exludes n Lurig bis. sad .aCabltalsenta  for
calculated by sax  conerso. asthod as W.cld Rank Atlas (1973-75 bacLa);                         cntadi.1 end prevemi a oars.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                    Par caPit. supply of celsriaa  7. of rmOirementa) - CO-ptad fran anergy
equivalent of met food supplide available in coutry par capita per day;
PoEula~tion  -nd vital statistic:                                                                 *wailabla eupplite  omaprise daneatic production. importa as  es....port., and
posain(mid_yer nillift)   A. of J.uIj first:  if not awailable, averge                      changas Ln stock; net #upplies exclude animal feed, #eeds, quatities used
of two sod-year estimates; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                            in food prceassing and Iosasa in diatributien; requirements wets setimated
by PAO based on physiological eseda for normal activtty wan health ronald-
Poowiac los   deet,          - ereur  he - Mid-year popsolation par squar  kilste.                xriee sxv1onstel tnpar-tur., body weights, ago and  -a  ditnrihtion   of
(100 hecers)' of toa   rea                                                                     populatine, ed allm,ing 101 for weato at bowasbald lewel.
Psolatiom  density -t pera,ur  be of anrtic  land - Computed as above for                       Per capita  "uPoly of ortein  feesntday),  Protain content of per capita
agiatrlland only.                                                                       net suppl  of food Per may; met auPpp   offod is defined aa abov; requir-
mets for all coutries ea.ablished by USDA  conomaic Raaaamcb S.-tcise
Vital statistics                                                                                  provide for a minimeen allowance of 60  evans of total protein per day, aed
Crude bitth rate pat th-uand. avar.ao  - Annual live birth. per thouaed of                        20 grane of anima  an! pulse protein, of ,hihk 10 grema should be enima1
nid-yace papul.ni..i te-year                  --tgni   ooass  andioe i. 1960 ned 1970,          protsin; these stadards are Imser then those of 75 grooa of total proneiss
and five-year average nding in 1975 for most recant  artinate,                                  and 23 grin  of animal Protein am en average for the word, proposed by fAO
Crud. death rate pint thouand, average - Annual deaths per thossand of mid-year                   in the Third World Fsod Sumwe.
population; t__-ya Zvr:ithontis a-ras.. a,diog in 1960 and 1970 and five-                     pxr capita prot.in  s,eefa   nml-  and totes - Proteis msppty of food
year average sodigin17fomonactntmt.                                                             derived ftom, animals an   uase in grana par day.
Infant mo,rtality rete  (Ithos   A-.Anua deatha of infants under ens year of age                Dath rats  f/thou)  ... 1-4s - OAo,1 deaths par thousend in aen  group I-'
pet thouaand Live birthe.                                                                       years, to children in this age group;  u4geated as an indicator of
Life  exoaotec ..    et birth  (-mS  A-AvrSga  .aber of years of life  -eneinig et                malnutriti-n
birth; usually five-year averges ending in 196, 1970 and 1875 for develop-
ing coutr1es.                                                                                 Education
Gross reproduction rats - w"are .sober of ILir  daughters a wimns will bear                     Adjusted enrollme:ntr rathio  - urinary  school - Enrollment of aLl agas as per-
in her ovenal reproductive period if she experiences prea.ct ags-specific                       can .g of pseyscol-g  popultion; includes children aged 6-li yean
fertility rates; ususlly fiv-yea   -avrges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1973                        but edjustad for diffraret lengthe of primary aducatian; for couxtri.a with
for d -eloping c ountries.                                                                      uxivesal education, enrollment may exceed 1001 since am  pupils amre hlow.
Ppoulation  growth rate  (7) - total - Canposad snonel grath rat"  of mid-year                    or shore the official achool age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adjusted  enrollmernt tetlo      , scndr  school - Computed as above; sacodary
Population  ctsowth rats a1) - urba. - Computed libe grouch rate of total                         education require   Lat lat fou  years of approved prienry inatruttin;
pouain  different definitions of urban areen any affect comparability of                  provides generl, voctional or t ...hhr tratting inetruttiooa for Pupila
d.  ata      coutries                                                                            f1   o1 yar  of age  correpodenc  coaurse  are generally asc1udd.
Urban  postlion  Cl of tstal) - Ratio af orbam  to tetal population; diff-mtet                  fsofaboi   n,id  (fist an                   -sed  lavels's - Tst.1 years of
defisitiam   of urban arese any affect coqmarbility of datea inmg countries.                    schoolig; at sesmdar-y level, vocatienal inteiratin any be partially or
omepletely mexluded.
As, Structure  Aserent  -Children (0-14 years), w-king-ag. (15-64 years),                       V-ctional enrolm-t  11 af secomdary) - Veracional imaittivenma, Leclue
sod reie 16) yearn sd ovr) as prerotagme of mid-year population.                               tcewcscl, indotvia1 or other pooroer  wh,ich oper-n. iodapexdemly or as
tie .depedecy  rto-Rato of population under 13 and 65 and over to thoas                         departments of senondary insiutOne.
of sgss IS through 64.                                                                        kduit literacy rate  (7. - Litearte adults (abx to read sod writ.) as per-
Ecaonmic deend.nc. retio - tatio of populatio  under 15 and 65 and ovr to                         centeg  of total adult population -agd 1) years end over.
the labor frsIn eg  roup oft13-64 ysare.
Penily panIne.  - accetor   (c,_  aiv_ thou) - Cumultive  -ober of acceptor                     Hos Lsin-
of birth-control davi-s  undar a.pic.. of national fanily pLanein  Program                   persons Pet room,  urban) - Average comber of persons per roo  in occupied
sinc  ince Ptton.                                                                               ceoentianel dwellings in arbast area.; duelli.os exclude son-pesase
F-aily  plennLna - -reer   C of married  omean) - Percentages of married womsn of                 otructure  end onocupi.d parts
child-bearing age (13-44 year) who "ae birth-control d-oicas  to all earrisd                  Occupied  dwelings  without piped  water  C)-Occupied c--sti-Ia d-LLiiiuc
asin san  aga group.                                                                         in urban and rural am..a without iide or outside piped .aten facilities
as p-rantagS of alocpe   wl na
twPlcyant                                                                                       Acceso  to  lcrct    lofaldelna   Coovxtio...  dwIiiige With
Total lob.. force  (thousand) - Economically active persona. including acmed                      electricity in ILinig quatrser  as p.rue-t of toreI duel1ina  in urban tad
tones and unoplopd but seclding h-uswiv-, atdanta, aet. ; definitions                           rural era-se.
in  -arsu  c            -tre    ar .ot comparable.                                            cRa1 dwaliinaa  cextocd  to electricity  (7)-Computed as  bhot  for rura
Labor force is egriculture  M  - Agricultural  labor force  (is faming, foretry,                  dwellings only.
booting end fishing) .a Percentage of total labor force.
ftemplow.d   l of labor force)   Umoaployed arm uxualy defined as person  who                   Conasastion
are  ble and wILin  to take aJob, outof a job on a give  day, renated out                     Radio receiver  (par thou po,p) - All typa  of recieiver  for radio broadcasts
of aJob, en   akig ork fcc a specIfiad .isi.    period tot ...c. ding  -n                      cc general1 public per thousend of populattion; o-Iud.s uniinssd rec-iw-s
week; any not be comp-reble betwmeen countries due to diffarent definitions                     in countries an  in yara wises registration of radio sacs was in affect;
of unemployed  nd .oursa of data, e.g.. eoploynent office Statiatics, aenpl.                    da ta for rseet yeas  may ost be comparable sioa neat coutrie- ahlish.d
auoys   opulsory unoploy-t insuanc.                                                        licen  in..
Pas-ra.rt tars (set thou Pop) - P-aseger car  comprise  storcrenstn
'0-    diatributio   - percntage of private lom  (both i. cash and ktid)                          leassthen eight persons; excludes ombulasen, h.er-.. and military
recived by richest 57., richest 20%, poors t 20t, and Poo..st 40% of hass-                      vehicle..
holds.                                                                                        Electricity  (kwh/yr  set cap) - Annua  consaptto  of todo tria1 , come.rcia1
public and private electricity in kilowtt hour  per capita, gen-raly
Ditrivbution  of land  owrship  - parc..ntag.  of land ou-d by vealthieat 10%                     baned on production dota, without alwcsfor losses in grids but .lis--
and pooret 10% of led Wnae                                                                      ing for iptort  and axporte of eetiiy
Neavpri.t (ks/yr par ..p) - Per caPita .-..al coneptlon in kiloars
Health  and Nutritio                                                                              estimated from domestic prodaction plus.. net mprts of newsprint.
Poplaton   et   hysci.. - Population divided by ... br of pr...tieing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university le-e.



ANMEX I
Page 3 of 4 pageE
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PROIXCT IN 1975                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ mii        %                        1960 -65           1965 _70           1971-75
GNP at Market Prices           28,146      100.0                          1.9                4.9                7.1
Gross Domestic Investment       6,891        24.5                         3.3               11.5               17.1
Gross National Saving           5,634        20.0                         5.8                5.1
Current Account Balance        -1,257     -  4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS           4,738        16.8                         1.5                7.8                6.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           5,533       19.7                          0.2               10.9               27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                   Labor Force-/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mil u      fi                Mil       %_ U_
Agriculture                     4,221      44.8                30.5       69.0                  138         65.0
Industry                        1,915      20.3                 3.0        6.8                  638        300.0
Services                        3,279      34.9                 8.3       18.8                  395        185.0
Unallocated                       -         -                   2.4        5.4
Total/Average            _
9,415     100.0                44.2     100.0                  213         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)             I               of GDP
1976/77*       1975/76                  1975           1974
Current Receipts                    2,904           2,201                   18.1           17.0
Current Expenditure                 1,613           1,247                   10.2           10.2
Current Surplus                     1,291             954                    7.8            7.7
Capital Expenditures                2,070           1,425                   11.7            9.8
External Assistance                   784             492                    4.0            2.4
* Provisional estimates.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1971          1972        1973         1974        1975         1976
(Billion Rp  outstanding end periodT'
Money and Quasi Money                       469          695          987       1,452        1,995       2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector               387           333         357          412       1,637        1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector              317           500         908        1,163       1,353        1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            12.8         15.2         14.6        14.8         16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 = 100)    642            807        1-028       1,370       1,640        1,873
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           2.6         25.7         27.4        33.3         19.7        14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                  -          -.14.0         7.2        15.4       297.3          7.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                *-           57.7        81.6         28.1        16.3         24.9
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 = US$1.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed morkers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
November 30, 1977



ANNEX I
Pace 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PATNYNTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973,75)
1974     1975     1976                                                 US $ Mil    %
(Millions US$)    Provisional
Exports:                       4351     4738      6033                Oil (net)                         1897      50.4
Oil (net)                    2169     2921      3650                Rubber                             416      11.0
Non oil                      2182     1817      2383                Timber                             602      16.0
Imports                       -4220    -'533    -6297                 Palm oil                           132       3.5
Resource gap                  131    - 795    - 264                 Tin                                138       3.7
Factor service:               - 210    - 462    - 781                 Coffee                              99       2.6
Interest                    -  64    - 178    - 354
Investment income           - 146    - 284    - 427                 All other cocmodities              483      12.8
Balance on Current Account   -  79    -1257    -1045                       Total                        3767    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       462      497       432             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                664     2395      2365                                                         US $ 1ii
Amortization               -  80    - 322    - 435
Subtotal                     584     2073     1930                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            10,140
Capital Grants                   62      ..        ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  ..
Other Capital (net)          - 126    -2250    - 205                 Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            - 214    -  46    - _..375                                         1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        689    - 983       737             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)      1473      590      1494
Net Reserves   (end year)      1472      489      1226                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         4      120       152
of which:  Petroleum          1      116       146
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2169     2921      3650       IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31, 1977) Million USS
LBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE_
RAEO    XHNEOutstanding & Disbursed  402.2       4,55.7
Thr2h jply 1971                Since  August 1971               Undisbursed                      1,012.5         106.1
US $ 1.00 = Rp 375             US $ 1.00 -   Rp 415             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   1,414.7           561.8
Rp 1000   = US$2.67            Rp 1000   = US$2.41
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
December 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOAIS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1977)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                       Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                         Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
Thirteen Credits fully disbursed                                                 156.4       0.0
195          1970          Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                        18.5       0.4
220          1971          Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                        14.5       0.3
246          1971          Seeds                                                   7.5       1.0
259          1971          Tea                                                    15.0       2.6
260          1971          Second Highway                                         34.0       0.6
288          1972          Second Education                                        6.3       0.4
289          1972          Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                       12.5       0.7
300          1972          Population                                             13.2       5.7
318          1972          Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                       8.5       2.1
319          1972          Fourth Agricuiltural Estates                           11.0       3.7
334          1973          Second Electricity Distribution                        40.0       1.9
355          1973          Beef Cattle Development                                 3.6       0.9
358          1973          North Sumatra Smallholder Development                   5.0       0.8
387          1973          Third Education                                        13.5       6.0
388          1973          Third Highway                                          14.0       1.4
399          1973          West java Thermal Power                                46.0       6.7
400          1973          Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                      7.8       6.8
405          1973          Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                          50.0       4.7
428          1974          Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                          16.5      10.6
436          1974          Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                    10.0       2.8
451          1974          Fourth 'Cechnical Assistance                            5.0       3.3
479          1974          Bali Tourism                                           16.0      12.7
480          1974          Fisheries Credit                                        6.5       2.5
514          1975          Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                         30.0      27.6
1005         1974          Railway                                     48.0                 13.6
1040         1975          Jakarta Urban Development                   25.0                  5.4
1049         1975          Five Cities Water Supply                    14.5                 11.9
1054         1975          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                             50.0                  4.7



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number      Year                      Purpose                         Bank       IDA     Bank/IDA
1089        1975          Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0                 3.3
1100        1975          Sixth Irrigation                           65.0                 57.0
1127        1975          Fourth Power                               41.0                 18.6
1139        1976          Fertilizer Distribution                    68.0                  7.2
1179        1976          Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5                 20.8
1197        1976          National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0                12.5
1236        1976          Fourth Highway                            130.0                118.4
1237        1976          Fourth Education                           37.0                 35.4
1250        1976          Second Shipping                            54.0                 53.8
1254        1976          Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.0                26.0
1259        1976          Fifth Power                                90.0                 89.5
1267        1976          National Food Crops Extension              22.0                 21.9
1268        1976          Seventh Irrigation                         33.0                 28.7
1318        1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                              30.0                28.4
1336        1977          Second Urban Development                   52.5                 38.1
1337        1977          Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0                 27.2
1363        1977          Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                              15.0                 14.2
1365        1977          Sixth Power                               116.0                102.9
1373        1977          Nutrition Development                       13.0                13.0
1433        1977          Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0                18.7
1434        1977          Eighth Irrigation                          63.0                 63.0
1435        1977          Ninth Irrigation                           35.0                 33.7
1437        1977          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                           40.0                 40.0
1472        1977          Second Population                          24.5                 24.5
1486        1978          Non-Formal Education                       15.0                 15.0
1499        1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders           65.0                 65.0
Total                                                1,417.0    561.8   1,118.6
of which has been repaid                               2.3       0.0
Total now outstanding                                1,414.7    561.8
Amount sold                                   26.9
of which has been repaid                     0.0      26.9       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                     1,387.8    561.8
Total undisbursed                                    1,012.5    106.1   1,118.6
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 19 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1977)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                           Loan      Equity      Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                  10.6       2.5         13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                     Textiles                 2.5       0.8          3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles                2.0       0.5           2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia            Cable                    2.8       0.4          3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                 4.5       1.5          6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel         Tourism                 11.0        -          11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                   5.4       0.7          6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles                2.0       0.3           2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan               Electronics              0.9        -           0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                      Devel. Fin. Co.           -        0.5          0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                 2.4       0.6          3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                   5.0       1.5          6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                    -        1.1          1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                0.3        -            0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                 1.4       0.1          1.5
Total                                            50.8      10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled              25.5       1.7         27.2
Total held by IFC                                25.3       8.8         34.1
Undisbursed (including participants' portion) 1.2            -           1.2



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                    Page
Irrigation (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434                    4
and 1435)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                  6
405, 480, Ln. 1318, and 1499)
Agriculture Support Services (Cr. 246, Ln. 1179, and 1267                   8
Education (Cr. 288, 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                               9
Energy (Cr. 334, 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                               11
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                 12
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                              13
Development Finance Companies                                              13
Bapindo (Ln. 1054 and 1437)                                       13
PDFCI (Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)                                      13
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                         14
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                      14
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                    14
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                        15
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                      15
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                    16
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                          16
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                       17
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                              17
17
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)
18
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is about 98%
disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and
hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit
of Novemb,er 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Overall project completion is expected by about September 1978,
about 3 years years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay -
difficulties in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations,
heavy rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation
rates and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The project is now essentially completed with
97% of the Credit disbursed. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about twice
the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of- over 20%.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19 pages
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. About 70% of the works are finished
and completion of the project is expected by March 1979. The Credit is
about 92% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project have been
concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved. The remaining contracts are expected to
be awarded in the next 6 months. Based on bid prices for the first contract
and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the total
project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the past
year. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject systems is
beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance has been provided
under Loan 1434-IND to expedite this work through the use of local consultants.
Critical review of the program for benefit monitoring is under way.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Project:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultants. The project is slightly behind schedule in the North Sadang and
tertiary development areas. The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily and is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation Project:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is on schedule and progressing satisfactorily.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Nlearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 5,000 tons or 25%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agrricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing )ate: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting in early 1978. Technical problems exist
in processing and equipment maintenance but construction of the oil palm mill
will be accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will
also be provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satis-
factory, while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the
course of the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project.(NES I -
Loan 1499-IND) PNP X is participating in both the NES I project and the
Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The January 1977 review mission's
recommendations, which included major changes in project scope and objectives,
were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. These amendments
reflected a change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef
cattle for export to thaLt of production of improved cattle for domestic sale
as draft and breeding animals. The project was reveiwed in November 1977 and
the mission found the state of ranch development and management satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 19 pages
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
plantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated and are about a third of
appraisal estimates. This is due to fewer than anticipated credit applica-
tions mainly because smallholder tea price has been higher than anticipated
at appraisal, which reduced the need for subloans. Also private estates have
been slow in joining the project because of their difficult financial posi-
tion, which made them ineligible for subloans and because of difficulties
in establishing land ownership titles. The Project Management Unit (PMU) is
now considering two alternatives: completion of planting by 1980/81 extending
the project period by two years to achieve 80% of appraisal estimates; or,
achievement of 53% of appraisal estimates by 1978/79. The project spin-off
and training have been excellent; about 2,300 ha of tea were replanted or
rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program but still under the
influence of the PMU. Over 3,000 farmers have been trained in training
centers and village level courses. A marketing study indicates that tea
consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is on schedule and about 75% completed. The Joint
Sugar Projects Unit is efficiently supervising the procurement and installa-
tion of machinery and equipment.  The two PTPs which are involved in the
rehabilitation process are both in a weak financial position and this
problem requires attention. Consultant services are gradually being phased
out as planned except for the sugar research station which still requires a
major input.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project has generally been progres-
sing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is virtually
completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is on
site ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Project:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
In 1976 the first: 416 families moved as scheduled from Java to
Raturaja, Village 1. During 1977 some 200 ha of food crops and 318 ha of
rubber were planted, and an additional 149 families were settled in Village
2. Houses were completed for another 100 families who will be settled early
in 1978; 50 more houses are under construction and the remaining houses
should be started soon. Plhysical layout plans for Villages 3 and 4 have been
completed and will be reviewed with the Bank in January. Project progress is
generally satisfactory. Continued improvement is expected in project adminis-
tration following the appointment of consultants to the Project Management
Unit in mid-1977.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date:  January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective on January 12, 1978.
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 246  Seeds:   US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971; Effective
Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
At Sukamandi 1,600 ha have been developed and it is planned to
develop an additional area of 400 ha in 1978. Significant results as of
1976/77 season, expressed as percentages of appraisal estimates are:
(a) area under production - 2,020 ha (54%), (b) yields of rice seed -
2.9 tons/ha (72%), and (c) production of certified seed - 4,900 tons (42%).
Due to cost escalations and implementation difficulties, only one seed
multiplication district, Klaten, out of the three planned at appraisal, has
been developed. Total area developed so far is 250 ha of a total estimate of
500 ha. National Seeds Corporation's cost of production continues to be high
and it is not commercially viable even with increases in production. The
Corporation will need continued financial support from the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project having suffered initial delays is about one year behind
the appraisal report schedule, but is now progressing satisfactorily.
Architects for civil works construction have now completed schematic drawings,
a contract for provision of technical assistance for research is under active
implementation and an agreement with FAO for technical assistance in extension
of agricultural information was signed in October 1977.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The construction and procurement programs, after a somewhat slow
start, are now on schedule. Staff appointments are on schedule with the
exception of some supervisory staff and subject matter specialists outside
Java. The new extension methodology has been adopted in all project provinces
and is being gradually applied. The coordination of extension services between
the five directorates general in the Ministry of Agriculture has not been
finalised; this matter is being closely followed. Improvements in project
management, and accounting are also being sought.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 288 Second Education: US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9, 1972;
Effective Date: June 7, 1972; Closing Date: March 30, 1978.
The project is being implemented with minor delay. All civil
works, delivery of furniture and equipment and expert services are virtually
completed. Progress of the fellowship program and teacher training is also
satisfactory. The Government has made budgetary provisions to meet the cost
overruns. Disbursements have improved. Delayed implementation required
postponement of the Closing Date by 15 months to March 30, 1978.
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 31 million books for 1977/78, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 19 pages
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 370,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition
specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO. The
Government is presently seeking additional technical assistance in publishing
and paper procurement. Disbursement has improved and is now 91% of the
appraisal estimate as against 69% a year ago. The Government is planning a
major review of the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Govern-
ment textbook projects and to overall future needs for production of
instructional materials.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project suf'fered initially a ten-month delay due to late
signing of the Funds-in-l'rust agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance and slow site selection. However, since January 1977,
no further delays have occurred and good progress is now being made in
implementation. Cumbersome implementation procedures in the Department of
M'anpower are still a potential source of delay for that Department's sub-
project and should be kept under review. Architectural designs for all three
subprojects have been prepared by consultants and approved by the Bank.  Most
sites have been acquired and surveyed. Construction firms have been prequal-
ified. Tenders for construction of 14 to 24 project institutions will be
called in the next six months. Equipment lists are in advanced stages of
preparation. Eleven add:itional technical assistance specialists assumed
their posts over the last six months and the technical assistance program is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977- Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is satisfactory. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve
teacher training has started. The technical assistance contract has been
signed. The design of physical facilities has fallen behind schedule because
of delays in appointing consultant architects.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implenentation progress is satisfactory with the exception
of delays in selecting a technical assistance contractor.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 19 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 334   Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered setbacks in implementation
due to delays in the preparation of designs for the system expansion because
of constantly changing city development plans during the early period of
implementation, procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures.
As a result the project is two years behind the original schedule. These
difficulties have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1977 to June 30, 1978
to allow additional time for the delivery of some recently ordered goods.
Completion of voltage changeover and connection of consumers will require
another 12 months after Closing Date.
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Itillion Credit of June 22,
1973- Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang (Part
A of the Project) were about 65% higher than estimated at the time of
apDraisal. This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in
an increase in the total project cost of more than 100%. Government will
provide the additional funds required. The additional financing requirements
led to a delay in the award of the general construction contract and, as a
result, the project is about two years behind schedule. PLN has satisfactorily
met the targets in its financial recovery plan (Part B) provided for
under the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Java System Study (Part C) has
been completed. The Citarum Hydroelectric Feasibility Study (Part D) had to
be extended by another working season to complete additional field work. It
is likely that the Closing Date of the Credit will need to be postponed by
about 12 months.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Part A of the project provides for the expansion of the Muara
Karang thermal power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW
generating unit. The general construction contracts covering this unit as
well as the first two financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded although
after some delay because of the problems of cost-overruns for the first two
units. The Financial Recovery Plan (Part B) and feasibility study for a new
thermal plant in West Java (Part C 1) have been completed. The Training
Program (Part D) is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the project
is now satisfactory but final completion will be about 18 months behind the
original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
MIarch 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is under way but disbursement is
substantially behind schedule. Orders have been placed for the first of
three lots of equipment for about US$11.0 million; these are now being
received enabling field work to be commenced. Bids are being issued for the
second lot worth about US$40.0 million and arrangements for construction
altered to speed up implementation. NIevertheless a delay of about a year is
expected in completion of the Project, due to the slow start. Part B of the
Project (the financial recovery plan) has been completed.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power P'roject: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Orders have been placed for main generating plant and equipment.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power Project: US$109.0 Million Loan of
February 3, L978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan is expected to become effective in May 1978.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The project (PUSPI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The PUSRI III gas system has been completed. Total cost of
PUSRI III is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977, i.e.,
about three months ahead of schedule. The total project cost was slightly
below the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 290 ha had been acquired as of May 1977 and
acquisition of another 31 ha is under negotiation. 104 ha of the 129 ha of
developed land have been sold to 83 firms. Factory employment at full capa-
city will be around 17,000 and an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average
in both factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are
profitable. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be
20.6%, is significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is
due to the fact that developed land values are rising faster than the cost
of raw land and development.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):  US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the fourth quarter of
1977. Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed among the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorly.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date:  April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date:  November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The national family planning program, of which the project is
an integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors
recruited annually and now covers about 18% of all married women in the
reproductive age group. Implementation of the civil works component is
now on schedule.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Itillion Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
Mlarch 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The initial progress under this project is satisfactory.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Tec:hnical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and lIapping Project:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is essentially on schedule. Construction of
BAKOSI!RTANAL headquarters and facilities, including cartographic, printing,



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19 pages
photographic interpretation, and data processing wings, is about 50% com-
plete. Contracts covering about 40% of the equipment to be procured under
the project have been awarded. The first new topographic map sheets of
Sumatra have been completed, and an orderly schedule for several hundred
additional sheets are in various stages of compilation and production.
Training programs and the work of expert advisors engaged under the project
are progressing well. Final loan documents for a parallel CIDA financed
project are in Jakarta, awaiting government's signature.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$12.5 million from the loan were realized in the original project. Procurement
of an additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of
fertilizer output beyond that anticipated at appraisal were approved by the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is under way and
is likely to be completed successfully.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been rela-
tively small (despite sharp price increases) due to efforts to reduce
construction quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services.
Construction work is completed; but work is still proceeding on detailed
engineering of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to
reconsider road design standards in relation to those recently developed for
the highway betterment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations
regarding standards for urban portions of the road.
Credit No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have been
delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and unusually adverse
climatic conditions. Construction costs will likely exceed original estimates
by more than 100%, mainly caused by increased quantities combined with



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19 pages
sharply escalated prices. The project also included feasibility and detailed
design studies of highway betterment works. Most of the studies are now
completed and formed the basis of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND).
However, work on a few studies will continue for another 3-4 months and will
then form the basis for lending by ADB or bilateral agencies.  The training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and is being implemented by the
Government.
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective I)ate: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Nearly all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays ranging
from nine months to about one year. Construction contracts for almost 900 km
of roads have been awarded, and tender evaluation has been completed for the
remaining about 380 km. Some problems in the execution of the road works
have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 but it is still too early to
assess the future impact of these difficulties on the overall construction
progress and project completion.
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to September 30, 1978 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and the technical assistance to be
developed. Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy appli-
cants,just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will
have been rehabilitated.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants, most of
which have now been made, has caused a slow start to the project and has
slowed project implementation and disbursements. The financial position of
the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, and further deterioration
could cause financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is considering steps to deal with this problem and with the acquisition of
high-cost new ships. Solutions likely to be proposed may require amendment
to the project description. It is expected that such a proposal will be
discussed with the Bank in March 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo, about 2.8 million tons were handled in the
first half of 1977. The first construction contract for Basin III civil works
and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let; container
handling and other equipment is being procured. There continue to be problems
in completing government financed works in Basin III but these works are
expected to be completed by December 1978.
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and almost all contracts have
been signed or are about to be signed. Project execution is behind schedule
due to initial slow procurement and execution of works. Freight and passenger
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However slight
improvements were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new
locomotives and rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of
consultants. The financial performance of the railway deteriorated in 1976
and 1977 due mainly to the declining traffic and to an increase in cost
including a large wage raise in early 1977. The overall situation is being
reviewed with the railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure for the Nusa Dua tourism
estate, including the hotel training school is under way and is scheduled for
completion in December 1978. The completion of project components outside
the estate (roads) is scheduled for October 1979, about one year later than
planned at project appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has increased rapidly
due to a considerable number of charter flights coming to Bali. Promotional
efforts to encourage investors have been intensified. Agreement has been
reached for the construction of the first 300-room hotel in Nusa Dua.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 15 months behind
Schedule. This is primarily due to land acquisition problems encountered in
the early stages of the prcject. Project costs for the sites and services
component are expected to be about 7% above the appraisal estimate. Some
problems have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the procedures
to be utilized in allocating the plots, and these are being reviewed currently
by the Government.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities in undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement programn in the future.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: IUS$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 18-24 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs about 14%



ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: three years;
(b) Project preparation coordinated by Bank Indonesia;
(c) First presented to the Association: 1975;
(d) First mission to consider project: April 1975;
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: April/May 1976;
(f) Follow-up missions: October/November 1976, March 1977,
and October/November 1977;
(g) Completion of negotiations: December 19, 1977;
(h) Planned credit effectiveness: late June 1978.
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:
(a) As a condition of disbursement of the credit component
of the IDA credit for each province, the PPMU head would
have been appointed, after an exchange of views with the
Association, (para. 61);
(b) Bank Indonesia and the Association agreed on a policy and
strategy statement and on the main rules and regulations of
the KIK/KMKP program; these policies and procedures could
subsequently be modified after an exchange of views with the
Association (para. 41);
(c) Bank Indonesia would cause each handling bank to take the
necessary measures to ensure that handling bank branches
participating in the project achieve a satisfactory level of
KIK loan collections; these measures and their impact would
be reviewed jointly by Bank Indonesia and the Association
each year (para. 36).



IBRD 12884R
99      >                          100"                                                .AR-4
7he b-dms M- . th do oo   \ .            YSIA           B.      -
i.ply Wo--do,ato,t , -ptpcw- by thA                                              '      PC/tC  O CiAN
WdBook -od ft- ffifiotto"                          MALAA                               PAII   ''fI
NCRTH    SUMATRA                                      KALI~~~~~~~MANTAN    
N                                                                                          U R T H  E S U M A T R AIR/AN
C.         V;.Sutv*                                                              JA YA   i
Kota'nopoan                                 >
I  5 \    a         >/      S             10l               ((~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEKANBARU  102-
2~~~~~~~ INDIAN OCEAN
INDONESIA                                                            K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  Kr
Branches Lending Under The Project          ~Ban inan
*Bir Bangis                       L      \)                         .             /
BRI   Bank Rakyat Pndonea                                                       /               AM I R /
BNI 46  3ank Indnes 94N6146 4ayaku buha\                                RsIAsU
BP a  BD             BRIo  BPya
BDN~ Banajan Daan   eg
NDONESIA Raiays                    /ingg         PD
INDIN-    -EN rd                              nbUndrer  The   Trouk 2u                  h
25            50s      75xar    10 
*BI~~~~~~~~~~~~~B 9anklnunglie                                ung.
BRI   Bafk Rlkot Indnesiq                   t                              /               J  MBBI
BNI~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~N 466n etr   noeia  96)Oaasls 
BBD   Banh Bumi Daya                             7                                 Q~BD  0 
KIIOMETERS~ ~ ~~~~EI
BDN   BarA Dong NegarBDN
BPD~~~~~     ~         ~     ~~~    BPDPmonue    ert                   Lbuodn 
o       2s             50 7        o             
MllEESS
990-                                 100"                                   WlOP                                 12
,   .   s  .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R






____________________________________________________________________________________                                                                        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PD D 112927
<' F>sjP4iI PPINES . .                                                                                        INDONESIA                            14
7S1A          PACIFIC OCPAN                                                              ~~~~~~~~SMALL ENTERPRISE DENELOPMENT PROJECT
Branches Len-ding Under The Project
J,        KCM A                                                                                                   oStSE                             Ea6Et .tavQC
(U      /  0<                  IA                                                                          BRI    nk Ru Indos
J   f                                                             J   1a  5,  C        5 #                                  9N4 aSN S en46  53nI4  4af l Indonessia   1946
-  c9 \_Fw   -    t  .    .    .  rS   O  Z                                      BEII  Bnmk Ekspor-lipor  nldoresij
I N C / A N  O C P A N  E9f i   g t      -                  :                                                                  B D N   B o n k   D a g n g   N e g a r a
.I:  Book "mbangunon Ind(nesia
209<~~~~~~8 BI--                             -.BI,B<                                                                                      PD   Bank Petnbangu'nan Daerttb
BAT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
-   * Prov4ni o4b  bouUrNjres.                                                                                                                                  ENV                      S,s
0      25   50        75   100    125-'
O7        i15S45zo                                                         i        PN p IA ,fO C                                      V.t      
WESTtS   Pe                                                                Q                s.  BR
-9' -AVA       -          -;    -!1?                        -                           n              .-                  2'.ItO-  R49
o  so       so                                                             N C/A N                      OCEAN~TR AL    V                         .p
46  fblne.r
0~~~~~~~~~~BIR
Moj.n.ng  B                                                                               SNI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l4



