                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                     CREDIT NUMBER 785 IND'




Development Credit Agreement
    (Small Enterprise Development Project)



                    between


             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




             Dated April 7, 1978
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 785 IND


                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;

     (B) the Project will be carried out by Bank Indonesia
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Bank Indonesia the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to make the Credit available to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a
project agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Bank Indonesia;

     NOW THEREFORE    the   parties   hereto   hereby   agree   as    follows:


                                ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,   unless the
context otherwise requires,   the several terms defined   in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings     therein  set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

     (a)  "BI" means Bank Indonesia, established            and      operating
under Law No. 13 of 1968 of the Borrower;
                               - 2 -


     (b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BI of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes -11 schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

     (c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BI pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all  schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;

     (d) "KIK" means Kredit Investasi Kecil, BI's program of
credit to small-scale enterprises for fixed asset financing;

     (e) "KMKP" means Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen, BI's program
of credit to small-scale enterprises for permanent working
capital;

     (f) "Project Area" means the Provinces of Central Java,
East Java and West Sumatra;

      (g)   "Handling Banks" means any of the following banks which
makes   funds available or proposes to make funds available under
Part A of the Project: (i) Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Bank Bumi Daya,
Bank Dagang Negara, Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia, Bank Negara
Indonesia 1946, Bank Pembangunan Indonesia; and (ii) any Bank
Pembangunan Daerah (regional development bank) operating in the
Project Area and such private banks as BI shall decide on the
basis of the BI circulars referred to in sub-paragraph (viii) and
(xi) of paragraph (1) of this Section;
     (h)  "Policy and Strategy Statement" means the Policy      and
Strategy Statement regarding KIK/KMKP lending approved by       the
Board of Managing Directors of BI on January 13, 1978;

     (i)   "PPMU" means the Provincial Project Management Units
established pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement
in each of the Provinces in the Project Area;

     (j) "LPPI" means the Institution for the Development of
Banking in Indonesia, established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower;

     (k) "ASKRINDO" means P. T. Asuransi Kredit Indonesia, a
State enterprise established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower; and
                                  - 3 -


     (1)  "Rules   and   Regulations"   means   the   following   circulars
issued by BI:

          (i)   No. SE 6/37/UPK dated December 4, 1973, re: Invest-
                ment Credit for small entrepreneurs/small invest-
                ment credit;

         (ii)   No. SE 6/43/UPK dated December 20, 1973, re:
                Liquidity credit for investment credit to small
                entrepreneurs/small investment credit;

        (iii)   No. SE 6/47/UPK dated February 13, 1974, re:
                Insurance premium payable for credit insurance with
                PT ASKRINDO under KIK/KMKP;

         (iv)   No. SE    7/30/UPK dated September 20, 1974, re:
                General    regulation on drawing liquidity credit
                from BI    for Small Investment Credit and Permanent
                Working   Capital Credit;

          (v)   No. SE 7/47/UPK dated January 16, 1975, re: Eligi-
                bility for using liquidity credit under Small
                Investment Credit (KIK) and Permanent Working
                Capital Credit (KMKP) for small entrepreneurs;

         (vi)   No. SE 7/51/UPK dated March 31, 1975, re: Criteria
                for determining who is a small indigenous (pribumi)
                entrepreneur under KIK/KMKP;

        (vii)   No. SE 8/5/UPK dated April 14, 1975, re: Maximum
                time allowed to disburse KIK and KMKP loans that
                use BI liquidity credits;

       (viii)   No. SE 8/12/UPK dated June 30, 1975, re: Granting
                of liquidity credits to domestic private commercial
                banks and regional development banks;

         (ix)   No. SE 8/35/UPK dated March 15, 1976, re: Collat-
                eral for Small Investment Credit (KIK) and Perma-
                nent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) to develop small
                indigenous entrepreneurs;

          (x)   No. SE 9/12/UPK dated February 4, 1977, re: Selec-
                tive increase in the individual loan ceiling under
                KIK/KMKP;
         (xi)   No. SE 10/5/UPPB dated August 31, 1977, re:
                Improvement of regulations and procedures to
                determine the soundness and ownerrhip category of
                banks;

        (xii)   No. SE 10/15/UPK dated November 24, 1977, re:
                Procurement and disbursement procedures for KIK and
                KMKP;

       (xiii)   No. 10/107/UPK dated December 30, 1977, re: Inter-
                est rates of investment credit and permanent
                working capital for small enterprise; and

        (xiv)   any circular of BI which has the effect of amend-
                ing, waiving or abrogating any of the circulars set
                forth or referred to in such paragraphs (i) through
                (xiii) of this paragraph (1);

     (m) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or to be made
by a Handling Bank under the KIK program out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent by the Borrower to BI and made available by BI
to such Handling Bank under the said program; and

      (n) "Sub-borrower"   means   a person   or   enterprise which has
obtained a Sub-loan.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
                               - 5 -


     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

     Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1988, and ending March 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.

     Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause BI to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all   action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BI to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

     (b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to BI under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BI, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include a term of
not more than twenty years, including a four and one-half year
grace period and interest at the rate of 2% per annum.

     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its     rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
                                 6-


otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.

     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out Part C (1) of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and research practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, the funds, facilities and
other resources for the purpose.

     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Associ-
ation not later than June 30, 1978, or such other date as the
Association shall agree, the proposed terms of reference of the
study forming Part C (1) of the Project; (ii) exchange views with
the Association on such proposed terms of reference; (iii)    take
into account the results of such exchange of views in carrying out
the said study; and (iv) furnish the said study to the Association
for its comments, not later than December 31, 1978, or such other
date as the Association shall agree.
                           ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenant
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause such Handling Banks
as are referred in part (i)   of paragraph (g) of Section 1.02 of
this Agreement to: (i)   have their accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)   furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii)  furhish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of such
Handling Banks and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01.    For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
                               -7-


     (a)  BI shall have failed to perform any of its    obligations
under the Project Agreement;

     (b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BI will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;

     (c) the Borrower shall have taken any action to amend, waive
or repeal its Act No. 13 of 1968 concerning central banking
if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment, waiver
or repeal affects or threatens to affect materially and adversely
the carrying out of the Project or the performance by BI of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;

     (d) a default shall have occurred in the performance by
the Borrower or by BI of any of its obligations under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement; and

      (e) BI shall have amended, waived, abrogated or repealed
the Policy and Strategy Statement or any of the Rules and Regu-
lations or any provision thereof if,  in the opinion of the Asso-
ciation, such amendment, waiver, abrogation or repeal materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the
performance by BI of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:

     (a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and BI; and

     (b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.

                           ARTICLE VI

                   Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
                                -8-


     (a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BI has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and

     (b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BI, respectively, has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:

     (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BI, and is legally binding upon BI in accordance
with its terms; and

     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BI, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and BI in accordance with its
terms.

     Section 6.03. The date July 6, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses


     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For, the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          P. 0. Box 21
          Jakarta
          Indonesia
                                 -9-


         Cable address:

              MINISTRY FINANCE
              Jakarta

    For the Association:

         International Development Association
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America

         Cable address:                          Telex:

              INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
                                                       64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting       through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have            caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in        the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the          day and year
first above written.


                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                   By Is/   Danudirdjo Ashari
                                          Authorized Representative



                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                   By /s/   S. Shahid Husain
                                               Regional Vice President
                                                 East Asia and Pacific
                                  -    10 -



                                SCHEDULE 1

                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                  Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated           % of
                                  (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed

(1)   Sub-loans made by                                60% of amounts
      Handling Banks                                   disbursed by
      under Part A of                                  BI to the
      the Project                                      Handling Banks

      (a)   in the Province           11,100,000
            of Central Java

      (b)   in the Province           15,500,000
            of East Java

      (c)   in the Province            2,300,000
            of West Sumatra

(2)   Consultants' and                 5,100,000       100%
      specialists' services
      under Part B of the
      Project

(3)   Training                           750,000       50%

(4)   Unallocated                      5,250,000


                        TOTAL         40,000,000



2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
                                     -   11   -




by,   or in    the territory of,   the Borrower on goods or services,        or
on the importation,*manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:


     (a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals,  in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,200,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1976.

     (b) no withdrawals shall be made under any one sub-category
of Category (1) in respect of payments made for expenditures
made in the Province referred to in such sub-category until:
(i) the       head of   the   PPMU for   such     Province has   been appointed
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 (b) of the
Project Agreement; (ii)  the consultants to be employed to assist
such PPMU in carrying out Part B (2) of the Project in such
Province have been employed in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement; and (iii) the leader of the
team of the said consultants has taken up his position in Indo-
nesia.

4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all     expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i)  reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall,     proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until   all   expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
                             -   12   -



5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
                                - 13 -


                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The Project consists of the following Parts:

Part A:    Credit

     The provision of credit to Small-Scale Enterprises under the
KIK program in the Project Area.

Part B:    Technical Assistance and Training

     (1)   Strengthening of BI's KIK/KMKP program supervision
           through the following technical assistance:

           (a)   a Project advisor;

           (b)   a KIK/KMKP procedures advisor;

           (c)   a small-business advisor;

           (d)   an agricultural advisor;

           (e)   a credit data systems expert; and

           (f)   such short term technical assistance as     shall be
                 agreed between the Association and BI.

     (2)   Development of KIK/KMKP lending through establishment of
           the PPMUs in the Project Area which will, inter alia,
           carry out program development and assist in individual
           Project lending and perform on-the-job training of
           operational staff of the Handling Banks and through the
           utilization of technical assistance by the PPMUs to
           assist them in carrying out their tasks.

     (3)   Training of BI and Handling Bank staff in small enter-
           prise development finance, by YPPI and the Handling
           Banks assisted by two small-enterprise credit training
           specialists.

Part C:    Studies

     (1)   A review of credit insurance policies     and   procedures
           with respect to KIK/KMKP operations.
                            -    14   -



(2)   The evaluation of KIK lending under the Project.

(3)   A study of administrative costs and total financial
      costs of the Handling Banks associated with the KIK/KMKP
      program.




The Project is   expected       to be     completed by June 30,   1981.
