CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 785 IND
Project Agreement
(Small Enterprise Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK INDONESIA
Dated April 7, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 785 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANK
INDONESIA (hereinafter called BI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BI agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
BI, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to BI on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BI, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BI shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (except Part C (1)
thereof) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and
in accordance with the Policy and Strategy Statement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any provision of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, terms and
interest rates for lending under Part A of the Project shall be in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations, as such Rules and
Regulations may be amended from time to time by BI.
(b) BI shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of BI and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BI shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist BI in carrying out Part
B of the Project, BI shall employ consultants and specialists
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BI
shall employ the following consultants and specialists not later
than September 1, 1978:
(i) the KIK/KMKP procedures advisor referred to in Part
B (1) (b) of the Project;
(ii) the agricultural advisor referred to in Part B (1)
(d) thereof; and
(iii) the credit data systems specialist referred to in
Part B (1) (e) thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) BI shall, with the assistance of the two
small enterprise credit training specialists referred to in Part
B (3) of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Association not
later than June 1, 1978 or such other date as the Association
shall otherwise agree, a detailed program for carrying out the
said part of the Project, acceptable to the Association.
(b) In carrying out the said training program, BI shall
make available to the Handling Banks the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on account of expenditures of
the Handling Banks under such program.
(c) BI shall cause LPPI to appoint a suitably qualified and
experienced small enterprise credit instructor to its staff not


﻿- 3 -
later than September 1, 1978, or such other date as the Associa-
tion shall agree.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
BI shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) BI shall: (i) maintain a Central Project
Management Unit (hereinafter called CPMU), until the Closing
Date; and (ii) establish and maintain in each of the Provinces
included in the Project Area, a Provincial Project Management Unit
(hereinafter called PPMU), all with powers, responsibilities and
staffing acceptable to the Association.
(b) BI shall exchange views with the Association on the
qualifications and experience of the candidates before making any
appointment to the position of Project Manager - head of the CPMU,
and of head of any PPMU.
Section 2.07. (a) BI shall, through regular consultations
with each Handling Bank, cause Handling Banks to take such mea-
sures as shall be necessary to ensure that Handling Bank branches
participating in the Project achieve and maintain a satisfactory
level of KIK loan collection performance. The improvement of the
performance of Handling Bank branches which have not yet achieved
an annual collection rate of seventy percent shall be of parti-
cular concern to BI.
(b) Not later than June 30, 1978, or such other date as the
Association shall agree, BI shall discuss with the Association the
measures being taken or proposed by the Handling Banks to improve
their collection performance.
(c) Not later than the end of each fiscal year of BI,
starting not later than March 31, 1979, or such other date as the
Association shall agree, BI shall review with the Association the
measures taken by BI and the Handling Banks and the results
achieved by the Handling Banks on KIK loan collection performance
in the Project Area in the previous calendar year.
(d) Not later than the end of each fiscal year of BI,
starting not later than March 31, 1980, or such other date as the
Association shall agree, BI shall review with the Association, on
the basis of the study forming Part C (1) of the Project, measures


﻿-4-
to be taken by BI and the Handling Banks to further improve such
collection performance including, inter alia, the setting of
collection targets for the current calendar year for each Handling
Bank in each Province in the Project Area.
(e) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) "collection rate" means the percentage of demand
which has been collected; and
(ii) "demand" means the aggregate of:
(A) amounts of principal overdue at the beginning
of the preceding four quarter period; and
(B) amounts of principal fallen due during the
said period.
Section 2.08. Not later than March 31, 1978, or such other
date as the Association shall agree, BI shall cause all banks
lending under the KIK/KMKP program to levy and collect from all
borrowers under such program a penalty charge of 3% per annum on
amounts of principal of KIK/KMKP loans in arrears from time to
time for more than ninety days.
Section 2.09. (a) BI shall: (i) furnish to the Association
not later than September 30, 1978, or such other date as the
Association shall agree, the proposed terms of reference of the
study forming Part C (2) of the Project; (ii) exchange views with
the Association on such proposed terms of reference; (iii) take
into account the results of such exchange of views in carrying out
the said study; and (iv) furnish to the Association for its
comments the said study not later than March 31, 1980, or such
other date as the Association shall agree.
(b) BI shall: (i) furnish to the Association not later
than June 30, 1978, or such other date as the Association shall
agree, the proposed terms of reference of the study forming Part C
(3) of the Project; (ii) exchange views with the Association on
such proposed terms of reference;    (iii) take into account the
results of such exchange of views in carrying out the said study;
and (iv) furnish to the Association for its comments the said
study not later than March 31, 1979, or such other date as the
Association shall agree.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.10. In carrying out the Project, BI shall insure
that Sub-lnans are used to finance fixed assets only, including
land, provided, however that the cost of land financed by any
Sub-loan is less than the amount of the Sub-loan not financed
from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.11. BI shall ensure that the Handling Banks remain
liable for the service of any refinancing loan made to them by
BI whether the Sub-loans so refinanced are serviced regularly or
not. In the event that a Handling Bank reschedules a Sub-loan,
BI may correspondingly reschedule the liquidity credit granted
by BI to refinance such Sub-loan.
Section 2.12. (a) BI shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, reports and contract docu-
ments for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) BI shall and shall cause the Handling Banks to: (i)
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and work sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) The records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
shall include, inter alia, separate accounts for all KIK loan
approvals, disbursements, collections and arrears, on a branch
basis, of each Handling Bank, in the Project Area. Such separate
records shall be reconciled by the Handling Banks within six
months after the end of each fiscal year of such Handling Banks
and such reconciled accounts shall be audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, not later
than nine months after the end of each such fiscal year.


﻿-6-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and the BI, BI shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Association and BI of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.13. (a) BI shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BI shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by BI of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. BI shall, and shall cause the Handling Banks
to, maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BI shall, and shall cause such Handling Banks
as are referred to in part (ii) of paragraph (g) of Section 1.02
of the Development Credit Agreement to: (i) have the accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) of BI and of such Handling Banks,
respectively, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope


﻿- 7 -
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of BI and
of such Handling Banks and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BI thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii)  a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the dat, specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BI
of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given


﻿- 8 -
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BI:
Bank Indonesia
Jalan M. H. Thamrin, 2
Jakarta Pusat
Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
DELEGASI                           976-44164
Jakarta                            976-44274
976-44275
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BI may be taken or executed by the
Governor of BI or such other person or persons as the Board of
Directors of BI shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. BI shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BI pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK INDONESIA
By Is/ Achmad Effendie
Authorized Representative


