Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22436
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-31700)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$210 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE GOVERNMENT OF
BRAZIL
FOR THE NORTHEAST IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 3170-BR)
September 10, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = New Brazilian Cruzado NCz$
NCz$1.00 = US$ 0.8952
US$ 1.00 = NCz$1.112 (May 1989)
Rate at Completion R$1.9595 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A,O&M                        Administration, Operation and Maintenance
ATER                         Agricultural Development and Rural Extension
BNB                          Bank of Northeast Brazil
CODEVASF                     Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company
DNOCS                        National Department of Drought Works
DNOS                         National Department of Sanitary Works
GOB                          Government of Brazil
IICA                         Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
MA                           Ministry of Agriculture
Nu                           Ministry of National Integration
MIR                          Ministry of Regional Integration
MMA                          Ministry of Environment
PCU                          Project Coordination Unit
PRONI                        National Irrigation Project
SEAGRI                       Secretariat for Irrigated Agriculture of the State of Ceari
SEPRE                        Special Secretariat of Regional Policies
SENIR                        National Secretariat for Irrigation
SEPRONI                      Executive Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program
SIH                          Secretariat of Hydraulic Infrastructure
SIR                          Secretariat of Irrigation
USBR                         United States Bureau of Reclamation
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Larry D. Simpson/Luiz Gabriel T. de Azevedo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
Northeast Irrigation Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    6
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                         9
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                       13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     17
10. Additional Information                                                              18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   32
This ICR was prepared based on the findings of two missions that visited the project during the second half of
2000, as well as various contributions from the Borrower, the executing agencies, USBR and IICA. The ICR
missions were led by Larry D. Simpson (LCSEN) and consisted of Luiz Gabriel T. de Azevedo (LCSEN), Musa
Asad (LCSER), Alvaro Soler and Peter Wittenberg (Consultants). Mr. Simpson, who had been the task manager
for the project since 1995, retired from the Bank as a long-term consultant in December 2000, but he remained
involved as a short-term consultant for the preparation of the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006453                                        Project Name: Northeast Irrigation Project
Team Leader: Luiz Gabriel Azevedo                          TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: October 1, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Northeast Irrigation Project                    L/C/TFNumber: CPL-31700
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AG - Agency Reform; Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  26/08/1988                               Effective: 01/09/1991
Appraisal:  15/05/1989                                 MTR: 15/09/1994            15/10/1994
Approval:  20/02/1990                               Closing: 30/06/1995          30/12/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/CODEVASF/DNOCS/DNOS
Other Partners:  State of Ceara
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                           Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                          Armeane Choksi
Sector Manager:       Maria Teresa Serra                         N
Team Leader at ICR:   Luiz Gabriel Azevedo                      Carlos Emanuel
ICR Primary Author:   Larry Simpson (TM until 01/01);
Peter Wittenberg; Alvaro Soler
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=SatisfactoTy, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performnance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: U                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Main project objectives were to: (i) increase agricultural production in the drought-prone area of
the Brazilian Northeast, through the development and irrigation of 51,000 ha; and (ii) strengthen
institutional arrangements for irrigation development by promoting increased farmer involvement
through the creation of user-governed irrigation districts and by improving public agency
performance.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was restructured in 1995, but its objectives were essentially maintained. This reduced
the area for new irrigated agriculture to 32,300 ha divided into two main categories: (a) small
farmers - the project would support the installation of on-farm equipment and the settlement of
poor families; and (b) entrepreneurial areas where plots would be auctioned to the private sector.
The reformulation also broadened institutional arrangements for water resources management
through the creation and training of user-governed irrigation districts and training of small
farmers.
3.3 Original Contponents:
The project was intended to finance: (a) the construction of six public irrigation projects in the
Northeastern States; (b) the initial operation of user-governed irrigation districts; and (c) the
provision of technical assistance to the executing agencies. The irrigation projects were initially
to be implemented by CODEVASF (Formoso "H" and Barreiras, in the State of Bahia); DNOCS
(Tabuleiros de Russas and Baixo Acaraui, in the State of Ceara); and DNOS (Tabuleiros
Litoraneos and Platos de Guadalupe, in the State of Piaui). The Ministry of Agriculture's
Executive Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program  (SEPRONI) provided overall
coordination and supervision. At the beginning of the agricultural production stage, projects built
by DNOS were supposed to be transferred to DNOCS. User-governed irrigation districts were to
be organized in each irrigation project to provide support services to members and to operate and
maintain the project works, with substantial private sector participation.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                                 Cost                     Rating
Construction of Four Irrigation Projects:                 $234,200,000.00          S
Initial Operation of the Irrigation Districts:            $21,600,000.00           S
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services:             $48,400,000.00           S
Based on a request by the Government, the project was reformulated in January 1995 in order to
adapt the project to a more reasonable and realistic implementation schedule and to accomnmodate
the country's financial capability at that time. The reformulation involved the exclusion of the
civil works and implementation of agricultural development in two of the six original irrigation
projects, namely the Tabuleiros Litoraneos and Plat6s de Guadalupe projects, both located in
- 2 -



Piaui. However, the project continued to fund the detailed designs for these two projects, under
the responsibility of DNOCS. Additionally, the Government and the Bank agreed to include in
the project the emergency rehabilitation of the Itiuba irrigation project in the State of Alagoas
which had been severely damaged by floods. Finally, in May 2000 agricultural development
activities were extended to include specific interventions in the Araras Norte project, in Ceara; the
Jaiba project, in Minas Gerais; and the Baixo Acu project, located in the State of Rio Grande do
Norte.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
The project predates the introduction of the quality assessment process at the World Bank.
However, it is clear that in general the project objectives responded to urgent and pressing needs
in the Northeast, and were fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil.
Project strategy and components were in full concordance with the Government's policy
regarding a new National Irrigation Program, set forth in February 1986, aiming at accelerating
private sector investment, rationalizing and expanding public sector agency activities, particularly
in the Northeast, and securing support for an integrated national irrigation development effort. As
was customary at the time of project preparation and appraisal, project documentation focused
mainly on physical schedules and targets. However, a detailed monitoring system that was to be
designed and set up by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) during implementation was never
completed. Moreover, in retrospect, the project as originally designed was overly complex and
ambitious. This resulted in the need to reduce the project scope (as noted in item 3.4). It also led
to considerable complications related to the complexity of having multiple executing agencies.
Thus, Quality at Entry is assessed as unsatisfactory, although such assessment is based on the
benefit of hindsight. It is important to note here that the complexities associated with the scope of
the project, as well as the multiple executing agencies, have also created considerable difficulties
for preparation of the ICR, most notably regarding performance ratings. In the case of several
project activities, for example, performance by one executing agency was quite good but just the
opposite for another executing agency.  To address this complication, final performance
assessments have been made with a view towards overall outcomes and the original project
objectives; as necessary, ample qualifications and clarifications have been added.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomne/achievement of objective:
The project has contributed considerably to the Government's goals of increasing agricultural
production in drought-prone areas, as well as strengthening the institutional framework through
the creation of user-managed irrigation districts and user training programs. The two projects in
Bahia are completed; the Barreiras project became partially operational in 1998, with one
irrigation district, serving the Nupeba and Riacho Grande subprojects, active. Another district, to
serve the Barreiras Norte subproject, was formed in 1999 and is now in oneration. The Formoso
H irrigation district was organized and incorporated in the existing and adjacent Formoso A
District. This combined district will administer the new Formoso H project in conjunction with
the Formoso A project, which has been operating since 1997. This should achieve a more
efficient and cost-effective administration of both projects for the benefit of all of the users. The
two projects located in Ceara are in their final stages of construction; therefore, the respective
irrigation districts are just now being formed. The Secretariat for Irrigated Agriculture of the
-3 -



State of Ceari (SEAGRI), in close collaboration with DNOCS, is implementing an ambitious
program to support the two irrigation districts, and to provide adequate technical assistance and
rural extension services. Several competent consulting firms were contracted to organize the
irrigation districts, and related activities. Notwithstanding the above, as indicated in the following
section (4.2), some project activities remain under implementation despite a total project
implementation period of some ten years (including extensions). Moreover, the risks of not
completing such activities as currently envisaged remain considerable. As such, overall project
outcomes are deemed to be marginally satisfactory; however, given the limited rating options
under the current ICR methodology, an Unsatisfactory rating has been selected.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Assessments of the physical and institutional performances of the project are given below:
4.2.1. Construction of Irrigation projects.
Following a reformulation of the project in 1995, the construction of six irrigation projects
encompassing an area of some 51,000 ha (as envisaged in the original SAR and Loan Agreement)
was reduced to four, with the corresponding reduction of areas to be irrigated to about 32,300 ha.
These were to be split between the States of Ceara (60% of irrigated area) and Bahia (40% of
irrigated area), with two projects in each State. As the following indicates, completion of civil
works under the reformulated project has been substantial.
Projects in Bahia: The infrastructure for the two irrigation projects in Bahia were fully completed
in 1998. These two projects had an estimated total irrigated area of some 13,407 ha divided
between small farmers 8,660 ha (areas where on-farm systems would be installed and settlement
would take place) and 4,747 ha for entrepreneurial areas, where plots would be auctioned to
medium- and large-sized farmers. The original estimated area was further adjusted during project
construction to approximately 11,300 ha of better soils and where settlement would be facilitated
for technical reasons. From the total revised estimated area, 7,600 ha in entrepreneurial plots
have been allocated to medium and large farmers who are in the process of securing credit for
purchasing the required on-farm equipment and preparing the land for development. Since
project closing a number of farmers have been able to initiate irrigation in the entrepreneurial
areas. In addition, 3,700 ha earmarked for settlement of small farmers have been fully developed
and equipped. This area has been under irrigation since 1999.
Projects in Ceara: The major hydraulic infrastructure and irrigation systems for the two projects
in Ceara was 90% completed by project closing. The total estimated area for the two irrigation
projects in Ceara amounted to approximately 19,954 ha. Out of this, some 4,600 ha should be
ready for irrigation by the end of 2001 provided the Federal Government allocates the required
funds to complete construction in the priority areas. Based on ongoing implementation of civil
works, it is expected that the resulting total area available for irrigation in Ceara would be about
14,000 ha by early 2002 (7,900 in Tabuleiros de Russas and 5,800 in Baixo Acarau). For this to
be attained, it is estimated that R$103 million of Government funds will be required for project
completion. This includes R$50.0 million for main and secondary infrastructure, R$48.5 million
for on-farm equipment, and R$4.5 million for supervision. It is anticipated that these funds will be
provided by the Government, bringing its overall contribution to about US$245.4 million, or 67%
of total project cost. Although there is some evidence that the GOB funds have been and will
- 4 -



continue to be made available, there are no guarantees and past GOB performance regarding CPF
has not always been adequate. The percentage contribution of GOB counterpart funds was
originally expected to be 50%. Funds needed to complete construction are distributed almost
equally between the two projects.
4.2.2. Institutional Arrangements.
The results of this component are rated satisfactory. Following the reformulation of the original
project in 1995, significantly greater emphasis was placed on the creation and training of
user-governed and managed irrigation districts, user training, and the provision of agricultural
development services to small farmers. As a result, the irrigation districts in Bahia planned under
the project are active, and all the small farmers who settled in the new irrigated areas are receiving
technical assistance and agricultural extension services. The output of this component is rated
satisfactory. This component comprised the creation and training of user-governed irrigation
districts, training, and the provision of agricultural development services to the small farmers.
The irrigation districts in Bahia are active, and all the small farmers who settled in the new
irrigated areas are receiving technical assistance and agricultural extension services. Initially,
cooperatives were formed to help farmers grow and market specific crops. These did not prove
to be successful and were gradually abandoned. More recently, CODEVASF supported the
formation of Farmer Associations to serve groups of farmers having their plots within the same
water distribution sector. The main purpose of these associations is to provide members with
improved marketing. In Ceara, a consortium of intemational and domestic firms is providing
technical assistance. Small farmers are being selected for bidding for the first batch of plots to be
ready for irrigation. The irrigation districts are being organized, Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) Manuals prepared and personnel for O&M  contracted and trained.  Within the
Agricultural Development and Rural Extension (ATER) activities, new irrigation techniques have
been introduced, together with new cropping methods, to foster the cultivation of marketable
high-value crops, mainly fruit cultivation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was estimated at appraisal as 16%.
Re-estimating this ERR under standard ICR methodology required actual production data that
was not available since irrigation activities under the project are still being implemented. As such,
the ERR was re-estimated based on the net incremental benefits generated by the project's
projected production. This estimate was based on the analysis of 20 representative farm models -
11 of them corresponding to the four subprojects actually built. This rate was calculated
including all capital and recurrent costs in the cost stream.
Production estimates resulted from considering a combination of: (a) the actual cropping patterns
detected in the field at the time of project closing; (b) a projection, based on the experience of
similar projects, of the transformations those patterns will likely undergo in the near future; and
(c) an estimation of the likely production patterns to be implemented in the subprojects that have
yet to start the agricultural development phase. The re-estimated rate of return, keeping a 30-year
period of analysis (1991-2021) as in the appraisal document, is 18% and the Net Present Value
(NPV) is US$132.7 million (constant 10/2000 US$, and a 12% discount rate as used in appraisal).
- 5 -



As in appraisal, this rate was calculated considering all project costs in the cost stream and thus
compares favorably to the equivalent 16% rate estimated at the time. This may be explained in
part by the fact that the least profitable projects included in the original appraisal were dropped
during implementation, and also because of the change in the production mix used in the current
estimate. The production mix in this estimate leans toward a heavier production of higher-priced
fruits and less traditional crops, reflecting changes in market trends as well as in the selection
procedures for settlers, which favor more entrepreneurial farmers with larger irrigation
experience. No NPV figure was included in the appraisal document to allow for comparison.
At the time of loan closing, only one of the four irrigation developments supported -Barreiras-
was in full operation, although not completely settled. Economic and financial efficiency
measures calculated for this project take into account all costs incurred and the status of the
agricultural development phase at the time of this report, plus a projection of the changes the
production systems would likely undergo in the future. Meanwhile, although the other five
projects had already undergone nearly all of the infrastructure investment expenditures, they had
yet to start the agricultural development phase. Likewise, estimates were carried out for the rest
of the projects still under construction, based on the latest works and agricultural development
completion schedules available. It follows that these estimates are not meant to compare
appraisal estimates vis-ta-vis actual outcomes, but to assess the effect of the delayed
implementation, and the utilization of new production technologies and settlement procedures, on
the economic and financial profitability of the irrigation developments supported by the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No estimate of aggregate financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal, but it was estimated
that full development would be achieved by the tenth year of project development. The estimate
at completion indicates that full development will most likely be achieved twelve years later than
envisioned during appraisal (year 2003). At that time, an annual value of incremental production
of US$313.69 million is expected (constant 10/2000 US$). This estimate takes into consideration
good access to credit by medium and large farmers, in order to carry out full agricultural
development of those plots, mostly for fruit production, in a relatively short period of time - three
to four years.
4.5 Institutio,zal development impact:
As noted above (4.2.2), the reformulation in 1995 led to considerably greater emphasis on
activities related to institutional strengthening. The results were positive overall despite grappling
with decades-old institutional changes. For example, DNOCS remained weak throughout
implementation and was almost abolished altogether under a nationwide administrative reform
effort. On the other hand, CODEVASF was a relatively stable and solid performing agency
during the life of the project. In large part, this led to the project having a positive institutional
development impact on the creation and operation of user-governed irrigation districts.
Additionally, the creation by the State of Ceara of the Secretariat for Irrigated Agriculture, and its
active involvement in the agricultural development of the two irrigation projects located in Ceara,
has already demonstrated a positive impact within and beyond the project boundaries. In the
projects constructed by CODEVASF, training became an important element in development.
O&M personnel of the future districts receive training in CODEVASF's Regional Center adjacent
to the Formoso "H" project. In addition, a youth vocational training program called "Projeto
-6 -



Amanha" (Project for Tomorrow) was developed in the Formoso A and Formoso H projects and
has now been expanded to include the Barreiras projects in Bahia. This concept is now being
adapted to the irrigation projects in Ceara by SEAGRI. These youth training facilities teach a
variety of practical skills, such as modem irrigation technology, plant propagation, fertilization,
animal production, equipment repair, carpentry, sewing, cooking, etc. Efforts are in place to
teach students advanced technologies in agribusiness. The vocational schools are intended to
create sufficient revenues by selling the products produced in order to be financially
self-sustaining. Over the long term, the objective is to create a knowledgeable group of
next-generation farmers for these regions and in the shorter term, to attempt to achieve transfer of
technology to the older farmers in the projects through the youth. To date, the vocational schools
have been highly successful in achieving this short-term objective. Overall, the revised framework
for the project's institutional component resulted in a range of very positive outcomes that ere not
envisioned at the appraisal stage.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governinent or implementing agency:
A severe drought in the Northeast, which lasted from 1991 to 1993, forced the Government to
shift priorities from  the irrigation projects to emergency operations.  Additionally, project
execution during its first two years was severely disrupted by macroeconomic and fiscal crises.
Government support for the project was not sufficiently stable throughout execution.
Notwithstanding the Government's efforts, and its significantly larger than expected participation
in funding project execution, discontinued availability or, at times, inadequate allocation of
counterpart funds throughout project implementation affected the pace of implementation. The
approval process of national budgets by congress was often delayed, resulting in the untimely
release of funds. At times, even the approved funds were, for fiscal or political reasons, not fully
released for one or both implementing agencies.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A series of administrative reforms that followed the introduction of a new Federal Constitution in
1988 dismantled or overhauled many federal agencies, creating confusion and insecurity in the
public sector, and directly affected the chain of responsibility for the Project. In January 1989 the
post of Special Minister for Irrigation Affairs was abolished, and an Executive Secretariat for the
National Irrigation Program (SEPRONI), linked to the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), was
established. In March 1990, a National Secretariat for Irrigation (SENIR) was created within
MA. In 1992 this structure was again changed, as SENIR was abolished and the Secretariat for
Irrigation (SIR) was formed in the newly-created Ministry of Regional Integration (MIR).
Institutional changes at the federal level continued throughout project execution.  Each
modification required new political, administrative and budgetary arrangements, which resulted in
disruption of the implementation process. In January 1995 MIR and SIR were transformed into
the Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and the Amazon (MMA), and its Secretariat for
Water Resources (SRH). In January 1999 the project management was transferred briefly to the
Special Secretariat of Regional Policies (SEPRE), and in September 1999 to the Secretariat of
Hydraulic Works (SIH) within the newly-created Ministry of National Integration (MI). The
evolving institutional environment also affected the operational capacity and performance of the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU).  The PCU, which was initially linked directly to the
- 7 -



corresponding Minister, was gradually moved down on the hierarchical ladder of subsequent
ministries in charge of project implementation, thus hampering efficient decision making and
coordination of activities among related federal agencies, paramount for effective project
implementation. All of the above changes directly affected the project as the responsibility for the
project was transferred with each change. This period of significant political, economic and social
change in Brazil, worsened by hyperinflation and economic instability, largely overshadowed any
concern for efficient implementation of this project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The institutional instability at the Federal level was also reflected in the activities of the Project
Coordination Unit which underwent several staffing changes.  There were ten Project
Coordinators during the ten years of implementation.  The two implementing agencies,
CODEVASF and DNOCS, were transferred from one ministry to another six times during the
implementation period, requiring these agencies to adapt to a different institutional setup. Each
such change resulted in a virtual freeze of all activities for periods of three to six months, until the
new ministry in charge installed staff, learned the project, and started to release funds.
The differences between DNOCS, a federal public agency, and CODEVASF, an autonomous
public company, created difficulties in uniformly adapting Bank procedures in general, and
procurement in particular. Lack of prior agreement between the Government's policies and
procedures for procurement and bidding, and those of the World Bank, at times adversely
affected implementation. Strong disagreement over the interpretation of this aspect of the Loan
Agreement continued until the Director of DNOCS was replaced in 1999. A major problem was
the inflexibility of the DNOCS legal office, which interpreted Brazilian laws rigidly, ignoring the
provision in the Loan Agreement that Bank procurement guidelines would take precedent which
is permitted by Brazilian Laws.
CODEVASF was able to agree to this provision of the Loan Agreement and was able to conduct
procurement within Bank guidelines with considerably less difficulty. The institutional setup of
the two agencies was also different. CODEVASF maintained its existing organizational structure,
incorporating project execution within the activities of its corresponding departments. DNOCS,
on the other hand, created a new structure, especially for this project, to deal with all aspects of
implementation. This separate entity, linked directly to the General Director, managed to build up
a high-level team of professionals. Nevertheless, its work stagnated, mainly because the DNOCS
legal office put up obstacles and implementation was constantly halted.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project cost was estimated at US$465.0 million. During the 1994 project reformulation, total
project cost was reduced to US$309.0 million. However, protracted international procurement
complications (highlighted in section 7.2), the Real appreciation and institutional problems
resulted in considerably increased expenditure during actual implementation. Estimated final cost
was US$430.0 million, including R$103.0 million, estimated to be needed to complete the project,
using Government funds. Following the project reformulation, and. as a result of the April 1997
and March 2000 Action Plans prepared by the PCU, cost allocations among components were
adjusted in light of accumulated implementation experience. Allocations for civil works and for
goods and equipment were reduced in June 1997, while funds for consultants' services were
- 8 -



significantly increased, to assure that sufficient funding would remain for the completion of the
technical assistance component. This reallocation of funds seemed to be justified at that time,
since it followed a period of intensive spending in civil works and purchasing of goods and
equipment. Between 1995 and 1998 about US$305 million were spent, representing about 83%
of all expenditures between the years 1991 and 2000, from both Bank and counterpart funds.
Unfortunately, barely the minimum counterpart funds were released in the final year prior to loan
closing, and the Ceara projects were not completed, resulting in the inability to implement the
agricultural development components. At the closing date the financing by the Government was
US$245.4 million (96% of the estimate at reformulation), while that by the Bank loan was
US$127.9 million (91% of the estimate). The average cost/irrigated ha was about US$14,020 in
2000 constant terms for the two schemes in Bahia, and it is estimated to reach about US$11,590
for the two schemes in Ceara. These estimates are based on the cost of civil works, goods and
equipment and the agricultural technology components.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated "likely". The basic condition for overall sustainability is a
commitment from the Government that adequate funding will be provided to complete the two
projects in Ceara, and to finance agricultural development activities during the first two years of
production. The irrigation districts serving the Formoso and Barreiras projects in Bahia are
successfully managing the O&M of those projects. Water charges are duly collected and ATER
services provided, as needed. Therefore, the likelihood of sustainability the two projects in Bahia
is much higher than that of the two projects in Ceara at the time of ICR preparation. The two
districts for the components in Ceara are in the process of being organized.
The establishment of the user-governed irrigation districts, the gradual transfer of project
management, and the strict adherence to full-cost water tariffs have substantially increased the
sustainability of the project. Despite this positive start, the districts have yet to prove their
sustainability. As the districts and the projects move forward to full production, it will be up to
the users to properly operate the district, and to provide adequate preventive maintenance and
timely repairs of irrigation facilities. The decentralized control over the management of irrigation,
with active user participation in the administration, operation and maintenance of the facilities, has
enhanced the incentive for both preventive and routine maintenance to sustain project
infrastructure. Boards of directors of the districts should recognize that rates and tariffs should
reflect the true cost of O&M. Employment of professional-level management for the districts and
employment and proper training of competent O&M staff are essential conditions to assure
long-term sustainability. Sustained effort by both the districts and the implementing agencies is
needed to continue this development process. During the first two years of operation, the
respective implementing agencies, CODEVASF in Bahia, and SEAGRI with DNOCS in Ceara,
will have to provide adequate ATER services and support to the districts and the small farmers in
order to assure that all the agricultural development activities are being successfully implemented.
A systematic interchange of technology and information between the Boards and staff of various
districts would be beneficial to maintain a high level of competence.
The project has successfully promoted innovative, participatory approaches by launching several
-9-



activities such as: (a) developing youth vocational training programs which provide diversified,
well-designed and carefully conducted vocational training to youth between 14 to 21 years of age
within the project areas (over 3,000 young people have already completed these occupational
training courses); this program will enhance the capacity of future irrigation users and enable
future farmers to better use modem technology; (b) organizing the small producer high-value fruit
crop demonstration program; (c) opening a commercialization center in the Formoso "H" and
Formoso "A" irrigation projects; (d) including the participation by the Fruit Growers Union in the
demonstration programs for the Ceara component; and (e) providing support for direct group
marketing in Bahia.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
The project is expected to make transition arrangements to regular operation through the
following actions: (a) completion of all outstanding works, including on-farm development
equipment for small farmers; (b) selection and settlement of all small farmers; (c) selection of large
farmers and assurance that they will receive adequate credit for land clearing and purchase of
irrigation equipment; (d) organization and operation of user-governed irrigation districts,
including training in administration, operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities; (e)
provision of ATER services during the first two years of operation of each project, including
technical assistance, support to production, demonstration farms and commercialization; (f)
continued provision of guidance to small farmers with respect to irrigated agriculture, and, in
particular, fruit cultivation and high-value crop selection; (g) promotion of community
empowerment, including collective marketing arrangements; and (h) extended guidance on
irrigation district management, including the collection of water charges, and other physical and
administrative aspects of irrigation management.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During identification the Bank took account of the project's consistency with Government's
development strategy and priorities for the Northeast, and the Bank's assistance strategy for the
country. Sweeping changes and economic crises which disrupted project implementation could
not have been foreseen. Initially a seven-year implementation period was identified, which was
later mistakenly reduced to four years, while maintaining the same components. This was
unrealistic, considering the complexity of the tasks and the obvious need of at least two years,
after completion of physical works, to implement the agricultural development component.
Although a system was proposed to streamline the production of detailed designs and tender
documents for the first-year construction program, the Bank was overly, optimistic in expecting
this to occur, and in keeping high expectations even after documents could not be finalized for
negotiations, thus becoming a partner in setting the stage for the delays that would take place
during Implementation.
7.2 Stipervision:
Bank supervision was mixed, although strong overall. The 1995 reformulation and subsequent
supervision activities, in particular, had much to do with improving what was otherwise an
originally poorly designed project and yielding results in line with the project's overall
development objectives. The Bank supervised the project regularly, with 21 supervision missions,
- 10 -



from July 1991 to September 2000. Supervision missions were thorough and usually managed to
focus on real issues jeopardizing implementation. However, both the Bank and the GOB failed to
work out adequate solutions for the more pressing problems of project funding and institutional
change that occurred. During the initial stages of implementation Bank actions were mostly
concerned with procurement and administrative issues, and lesser efforts were devoted to monitor
the implementation of the institutional strengthening of the executing agencies. In 1991, DNOCS
finished its first International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for construction of infrastructure for the
two Ceara projects under its jurisdiction. DNOCS contested the results since it felt that the
lowest evaluated bidders were weak contractors who would not be able to adequately perform.
Subsequently, DNOCS asked the Bank to accept a re-bid, but the Bank's Procurement
Department denied this request. As a result, both contractors failed, their contracts were
cancelled, and the construction was delayed on these components for over two years. Aside from
this incident, however (as noted above), Bank supervision from 1995 onward was thorough and
focused on the key issues linked to the project's overall development objectives and on expanding
and strengthening the project's institutional component. The Bank was also instrumental in
promoting the involvement of the State of Ceara in the implementation of the DNOCS-managed
projects.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.  The Bank was very flexible in
administering the loan and assisted the Government in resolving the problem of shortage of
counterpart funds. In a strong attempt to make project execution possible and avoid cancellation
of the loan, the Loan Agreement was amended five times, the Loan closing date extended three
times (by a total of 5 1/2 years), and loan proceeds reallocated six times. Although multiple Bank
reorganizations and staff changes inevitably led to periods of inadequate attention over the ten
years of project implementation, supervision was particularly strong initially, during the
reformulation phase of the project, and over the last few years of implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation undertaken by PRONI, with technical support from the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation (USBR) and the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA),
was analyzed by four Bank missions during 1988 and 1989 and considered adequate.
Administrative reforms at the Federal Government level during preparation had an adverse effect
on a timely completion of all agreed actions. Due to difficult economic and financial conditions
prevailing in 1989, the Loan Agreement was not signed until 18 months after negotiations, in July
1991. Moreover, key preparation activities, such as completion of detailed designs, establishing
the field technical units in each irrigation project, preparation of resettlement plans for the affected
population, and adequate progress in land acquisitionm were not fully accomplished as agreed.
This strongly contributed to the delays in project implementation as the project progressed.
7.5 Government implementationperfor,nance:
The performance of the Government during the initial and final years of implementation is not
considered satisfactory with regard to the availability of counterpart funds and approval of
budgets. The situation improved significantly from 1995 to 1997, when about 85% of the total
expenditures were released, but worsened again from 1998 until loan closure, especially regarding
- 11 -



the financing of the DNOCS component.
The first two years of implementation were plagued by institutional, technical and financial
burdens, causing an almost complete stagnation in implementation.  Subsequently, the
Government decided to reformulate the project in order to substantially reduce the project scope
and make it compatible with the prevailing financial capabilities of the public sector. This reduced
the total cost of the project and the amount of the loan. A reformulation proposal submitted to
the Bank in October 1993 was accepted, and the Loan Agreement was amended in January 1995.
In April 1997 the Government submitted a request for a second two-year extension of the closing
date. According to that document, during the previous reformulation plan the agricultural
development activities were underestimated. The Government made a commitment to provide
adequate counterpart funding to complete the project and finish all physical works by June 1998,
should the requested extension be granted. Even though the extension was granted, this
commitment was not fully respected, and the projects under DNOCS remained unfinished to date.
In January 1999 overall project coordination was transferred to the newly formed special
Secretariat of Regional Policies (SEPRE), and project implementation virtually stagnated until
September 1999, when the Ministry of National Integration (MI) took over and revitalized
implementation. In an Action Plan prepared by the Government in December 1999 it was clearly
indicated that all project activities would be completed before December 31, 2000, and sufficient
funds would be budgeted to accomplish the Action Plan. Counterpart fund allocations of R$28
million for DNOCS for the year 2000 were adequate, but MI decided to release only about R$6
million, which resulted in the suspension of construction and, as a consequence, the inability to
implement the agricultural development program for the DNOCS components.
7.6 Ihnplementing Agency:
CODEVASF
The CODEVASF components of the project, although delayed, eventually reached their
objectives. This can be largely attributed to good management and stable and competent staffing
of the project by CODEVASF. Despite the numerous changes at higher levels in the GOB, there
were few changes in CODEVASF, and key members of the implementation team remained
involved with the project from preparation until loan closure. They were consistently committed
to, and creative in, overcoming obstacles and keeping actions moving. The positive results
achieved in these components managed by CODEVASF weighted the overall ratings of this
project to the satisfactory level.
DNOCS
At the beginning of project execution DNOCS had pre-existing institutional problems which were
magnified by the complex implementation context. A special department which was linked
directly to the General Director was created within DNOCS to handle all project matters.
However, the efforts of the project department to get things moving were weakened by poor
interface with other departments, institutional rigidity, and primarily by the unwillingness of the
DNOCS General Council to adjust prevailing procurement procedures to Bank procurement
- 12 -



guidelines. Processing of contracts took much longer than anticipated, and when contracts were
finally signed bureaucratic processes delayed project construction start-up. In addition, the
inconsistency of funding availability caused numerous project suspensions followed by the cost of
restarting these projects. Following the reorganization of DNOCS in 1999, DNOCS activities
related to this project improved significantly, and remained so until loan closure.
The State of Ceara expressed interest since 1995 in taking over from DNOCS the implementation
of the agricultural development aspects of the two Ceara projects. Despite the fact that DNOCS
was unable to properly handle the agricultural development matters, it showed reluctance to
transfer this sub-component to the State of Ceara. Negotiations on this matter were successfully
completed and became effective during the second half of 1999. Since that time, the two agencies
have cooperated in a team effort to accomplish the agricultural development of the two projects.
Little collaboration occurred between DNOCS and CODEVASF. This resulted in a lack of
transfer of successful experiences between the agencies. When budget cuts occurred, DNOCS
had little financial flexibility and work stoppages generally followed. As a different type of
agency, CODEVASF usually was able to shift budgetary allocations internally and maintain the
implementation, even if at a slower than desired pace.
With the transfer of overall project coordination to the Secretariat of Hydraulic Works within MI
in September 1999, the situation of DNOCS improved drastically. The new Secretary has taken
strong steps to reformulate the remainder of the project, principally the agricultural development
and technical assistance sub-component. He has replaced both the General Director and the
Project Manager of DNOCS. This measure, albeit late, proved to be important, and the
implementation of the Ceara component became energized, with substantial contribution from
SEAGRI. However, as a result of the MI decision to freeze most of the counterpart funds already
approved for the construction of the two projects in Ceara, many ongoing activities came to a halt
in September 2000, awaiting the release of budgeted funding.
Within the original Loan Agreement, a technical support and assistance program was specified,
using the services of the United States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) under an
inter-governmental agreement between the GOB and the U.S. This resulted in a highly flexible
and effective form of technical assistance and assured the use of high-quality standards and a high
level of quality control for the resulting works. Key USBR personnel were permanently assigned
throughout the term of the project and effectively served to preserve institutional memory during
project implementation, despite the multitude of changes within the GOB. The USBR was also
able to bring in highly competent specialists as needed to provide specialized training and
technical assistance to the agency staff, such as pump and motor start-up, canal construction, soil
and foundation expertise, dam construction and project management.
In the original Loan Agreement, technical support from the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA) was also specified to aid in project coordination and
management at the GOB level and to provide technical assistance for the agricultural development
component. This agency was also effective in maintaining institutional memory and in maintaining
project continuity throughout the project, despite the organizational changes within the GOB.
- 13-



The above two agencies were, to a large degree, responsible for project continuity and the
maintenance of project quality throughout implementation with the resulting satisfactory
achievement of project objectives.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance improved in the mid-1990s and, to a more limited extent, as of late 1999.
Moreover, in general, CODEVASF-led components were well executed and achieved their
objectives. However, numerous institutional, technical and financial deficiencies plagued the
project during and immediately following preparation, as well as during the initial years of
implementation. In fact, it was not until the mid-late-1990s, after multiple loan extensions and
reallocations, that overall implementation by the executing agencies showed considerable
improvement; even then, the momentum was not fully sustained, although the upward trend
remained relatively stable as of late 1999. Considering the many years of multiple deficiencies,
overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project provided various lessons which are widely applicable to similar irrigation projects and
other infrastructure projects in Brazil and in other countries.
* This type of complex umbrella project loan should be avoided in preference to the use of
new Bank Financing mechanisms such as the APL. It is strongly recommended that future
projects of this type utilize at least three phases of a programmatic lending process. The first
phase should fund comprehensive feasibility analysis including strong economic and
environmental analysis and final project design including the design of an agricultural credit
program. The second phase should fund project construction, construction supervision and
start-up. The third phase should fund agricultural development and technical assistance,
including the implementation of vocational training programs, agricultural credit programs and
the formation and training of user-governed irrigation districts. Sufficient transitional funding
and overlap in phases should also be provided to assure continuity with the projects and to
prevent the loss of project implementation personnel and institutional memory.
* The project-financing plan should carefully evaluate the Government's ability to meet
counterpart funding requirements, and macroeconomic factors and conditions must be taken
into consideration during pieparation. This should be re-evaluated at each phase of the
programmatic lending process to assure both the borrower's willingness and capability to
provide adequate counterpart funding for the next phase contemplated.
* The implementation capacities of the designated agencies must be sufficient to manage
the complexity of the Project. In this instance, the original design was too complex and
ambitious and led to serious operational and implementation management difficulties,
requiring drastic restructuring. Division of a project of this type among more than one
implementing agency should be avoided. A clear line of authority between the borrower and
the implementing agency should be agreed upon in advance and should not be changed
without Bank approval.
- 14 -



*  There is a strong tendency among all borrowers to emphasize the construction of
infrastructure and to divert project funding from later phases such as technical
assistance and agricultural development to meet overruns in the cost of infrastructure.
This can be avoided by separating the phases though the use of a programmatic loan such as
the above-mentioned APL, in order to avoid the intermingling of funds. In the event that such
stepped financing is not used, a clear agreement should be obtained from the borrower that
transfers of funds from soft components to infrastructure will not be permitted without strong
justification and Bank approval.
*  Realistic time schedules and supervision cost estimates should be made. The time
necessary to realistically implement complex projects of this type should depend on
professional estimates, not rigid time guidelines set by Bank policy. This can be facilitated
with the use of programmatic lending. However, realistic estimates of project implementation
time should be made as opposed to uninformed administrative decisions. In addition, Bank
supervision costs for such a complex project should be recognized and sufficient funds
contemplated within the Bank budgeting process. Sufficient funding should be provided for
the use of high-quality professionals in technical areas and in safeguard policy areas such as
environmental protection, resettlement, social impact and dam safety supervision. If such
safeguard policies are promulgated by the Bank, sufficient funding for adequate supervision
must be provided within Bank supervision budgets.
*  Causes of delayed project implementation. The main causes of implementation delays
were: (a) financial (lack of adequate counterpart funding and uneven allocation of budgets
among implementing agencies, for various components, and throughout the fiscal year); (b)
institutional (changes between basic and executive designs, lack of standard bidding
documents in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, and changes in project
coordination); and (c) political (changes in Government policies and in the overall
coordination entity). To the extent possible, political and institutional instability should be
analyzed and predicted in advance and flexibility should be built into the lending process to
accommodate such changes in policy. The use of programmatic lending should greatly
enhance this flexibility as the approval of each sequential phase provides a convenient safety
valve to adjust project expectation or to terminate the lending process if impossible situations
develop.  Such a pro-active approval process limits the negative implications of loan
cancellation and provides the Bank with greater leverage to assure adequate implementation.
*  Bidding of infrastructure should be based on reliable designs. Solid professional-level
project design and cost estimation should be developed in the design phase of the APL lending
to assure that design and cost estimates are realistic and incorporate the latest technology.
These designs and estimates should remain flexible enough to incorporate changes in the
technologies employed or changes in the pricing framework of the project components
throughout the implementation of the project. Where feasible, innovation incentives should be
included in the contracting process to enhance the adoption of new technologies.
* International technical assistance provided throughout implementation by USBR and IICA
- 15-



was a key factor in reaching high-quality construction standards throughout all project
elements. As a result of the USBR involvement, safety features and policies were rigorously
implemented to ensure a safe construction environment and quality construction as well as
competent project start-up. Future O&M costs should be reduced as a result of automation,
night pumping scheduling, and effective routine maintenance programs initiated through the
USBR involvement. Standard USBR documents were translated from English and adopted to
local conditions. These proved to be so successful that many designers throughout Brazil
now routinely use them. IICA assistance was essential to support overall project management
and the implementation of agricultural development. It is strongly recommended that this type
of outside technical assistance be specified in future projects of this type, utilizing recognized
experts and or agencies over the life of project implementation.
*  Consideration of all outside factors on implementation should be emphasized. The
provision of a power supply for both the major mechanical equipment and pumps as well as
for the irrigated perimeter was an important factor in the initiation of operation of the
projects. In all schemes of this project, substantial delays were incurred as a result of the
concurrent privatization of the state electric companies. The initial agreements to supply and
install power lines and accessories were not respected by the newly-privatized companies and
new contracts had to be negotiated, with substantial delays to the testing of equipment and the
initiation of operations.
*  Good baseline data and an early implementation of an effective monitoring system are
essential. The non-availability of a database and the inadequate functioning of the monitoring
system contributed to the difficulties and limitations of the impact evaluation. Future projects
of this type should firmly establish a strong implementation institutional base during the initial
phase. This should include a dedicated team of well-trained procurement and project
management personnel, a strong informational database, critical path project scheduling, and
the necessary software and hardware to efficiently manage this database and project
management. The informational database should be designed so as to automatically provide
real-time monitoring of relevant indicators necessary to project management and supervision.
*  Successful diversification of crop production depends on obtaining small farmers'
confidence. Diversification and introduction of high-value crops such as fruit must be
preceded by education, public information and demonstration plots and programs. Farmers
can and will, with appropriate training, be confident enough to make their own decisions on
how and when to adopt modem, complex technologies. However, they must be shown the
advantages to be gained from changing from the old technologies and cropping. This can be
done by well-designed field demonstration days and workshops as well as by demonstration
areas operated by peer farmers with technological support from the project.
*  Selection of beneficiaries. The project adopted innovative ways to select both small and
large farmers through an elaborate bidding process. This process ensured that the recipients
of the land had sufficient knowledge and previous experience in irrigated agriculture to
become successful farmers, and thus to be able to repay their share of the construction cost
and fully cover O&M expenses. This lesson and process should be utilized in future projects
- 16-



of this type.
*  Financing the survival of small producers. A lesson to be derived from this project is the
crucial need to finance the survival of small producers during the first two to three years of
production, until the production of perennial high-value crops is fully realized and stabilized.
Credit packages and repayment policies should be designed with grace periods that recognize
the need to provide subsistence income for small farmers until revenue generation is obtained
from high-value crop production. If this is not done, the natural tendency will be for the small
farmers to produce annual low-value crops in order to survive financially.
*  A flexible approach to project design and modification can derive added benefits through
the adoption of new technologies as they become available during project implementation.
With this project, adjustments were made to the original design to adopt a more flexible model
for on-farm development, allowing for better irrigation and production technology, and
improved access to credit. As a result of these modifications access to financial support was
facilitated, and purchase of on-farn equipment made more flexible, through an agreement with
the Bank of Northeast Brazil (BNB), allowing farmers to decide what type of equipment they
want to purchase, at their own pace. Additionally, a positive factor was the fact that the
designs of the irrigation projects evolved technologically, resulting in technological
improvements that will result in more efficient water use, simpler and more effective O&M,
and lower energy consumption. The design of future projects should include an ongoing
review of available technology with a conscious effort to adapt the project to accommodate
new and improved technologies as they become available throughout project implementation.
*  Institutional strengthening of the implementing agencies. As a result of this project both
imnplementing agencies adjusted their existing structure to foster efficient implementation.
Within CODEVASF the "Special Projects Team" is still active and implementing several
projects, and CODEVASF became better suited to undertake similar assignments. The recent
changes in DNOCS management could result in similar results. Future projects of this type
should include a component for the improvement and modernization of the implementing
agency.
*  The Bank's rigidity in adhering to changing and variably-interpreted procurement
rules and regulations tended, in some cases, to create delays and obstacles to successful
project implementation that far exceeded the apparent savings in cost, competition or
efficiency, which were intended by these rules. Bank procurement regulations should be
continually reviewed to assure that the benefits provided by these rules and guidelines exceed
the costs of implementing them. Greater flexibility should be provided to Task Managers and
Regional Procurement Officers to adapt procurement guidelines to special situations.
*  Bank support and supervision, including sufficient funding for supervision, should continue
until the end of the project.  The lower-cost institutional components are generally
implemented towards the end of an irrigation project, and this is the time that Bank assistance
and supervision should be greatest if sustainability is to occur. With this project, supervision
funding became extremely limited just at the time when maximum supervision was needed.
- 17 -



The APL concept, combined with adequate supervision funding, should help to alleviate this
problem.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. Institutional Arrangement
This Loan's institutional arrangements, which combined centralized management with activities to
be carried out by multiple executing agencies, contributed to reducing CODEVASF's
perfornance in relation to other loans for which implementation was its exclusive responsibility.
Despite this constraint, systematic monitoring, both by Bank staff and staff of the executing
agency and the centralized coordination unit, made it possible to identify the need for adjustments,
which were made in a timely manner.
2. Future Perspectives
It is anticipated that the Irrigation Districts will become self-sustaining once irrigated areas are
under full production; this should occur shortly once the perennial crops planted become available
to go to market.
With this in mind, farmers' organizations should focus on getting their output to market; this
includes, among other things, finalization of marketing arrangements initiated with Loan
resources.
Considering the irrigators' expected production volume, and the fact that most of it will be from
high-value products such as fruits, it will be important to attract new investors who can support
agro-industry focused on improved production and marketing practices.
3. Experience with World Bank
International technical cooperation supported by the Loan enabled CODEVASF technical staff to
enhance learning about project-related issues, including both engineering and social issues.
Collaboration with the Bank also led to the following:
(i) the establishment of standard implementation procedures, with all activities carried out on the
basis of basic studies, detailed feasibility analysis, basic engineering design and final engineering
design;
(ii) streamlined bidding resulting from the standardization of bidding documents and procedures -
this also facilitated more efficient and effective overall decision-making;
(iii) greater participation and competitiveness for procurement resulting from the use of
international bids for larger contracts.
4. Lessons Learned
- 18 -



4.1 Timeframe
In this and other Loans for irrigation projects, it has been noted that the implementation of works
consumes nearly the entire life of the loan, with only a very short period remaining in which to
achieve the core development objectives, such as the occupation of irrigated lots, the start-up of
operations, and agricultural production. A re-evaluation of timeframes during the preparation of
future, similar loans could resolve this problem.
4.2 Resources/Fees
Resources allocated for agricultural development are applied only after works have been
implemented. Thus, the commitment of financial resources made available under the loan, as well
as the resulting payment of loan commitment fees, should be differentiated in such a way that
those resources allocated for agricultural development are only made available (with no
commitment fees due until that time) after the period required to implement works.
4.3 Components
Activities such as fruit production planning, agricultural research, constitution and structuring of
irrigation districts, marketing arrangements and credit, are essential for the success of irrigation
projects; as such, they should be explicitly included in the components of loans for irrigation
projects.
4.4 Credit
The project's sustainability, once implemented, depends on "on-farm" investments for agricultural
production. As such, future loans for similar projects should include credit resources for this
purpose; these could be made available out of proceeds of the Bank loan and enforced on the
basis of a Government commitment clause.
4.5 Scope of Loan Agreements
Should another "umbrella"-type loan be considered along similar lines as Loan 3170-BR
(designed and implemented by a single, centralized management - technical, financial and
administrative - and with more than one executing agency), more autonomy should be given to
executing agencies, especially with regard to procedures already standardized by the Bank.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Settlement of                                         Year                                           Total
Beneficiaries    1989/91   1991    |   1992         1993   |   1994        1995/99       2000
O_I_I_IJI                                                        I I
Tab. de Russas
Smail Farmers
Estimate                    151         302          552                                         T   1,005
Actual (l)         _
Entrepreneurs                                               I
Estimate                     22          45          82    1                                          149
Actual
Baixo Acarau
Small Farmers
Estimate                    109    |   219          400                                               728
Actual (1)                                                                                54          54
Entrepreneurs
Estimate                                 I   1 I     20    I                                          36
Actual                                                                                    6            6
Barreiras
Small Farmers
Estimat                      68          136        272          205                                  681
Actual                                                                                   275         275
Entrepreneurs
Estimate                     18          34          69          52                                   173
Actual                                                                                   179          179
Projeto Amanha                                                                            5            5
Formoso H
Small Farmers
Estimate               1    61           123        246          185                                 615
Actual                                                                                   110          110
Entrepreneurs
Estimate                     2           5           9     I    7      I           I            |    23
Actual                                                                                    47          47
Project Total
Smail Farmers
Estimate        |      |   389    |   780    |   1470   |   390    |                                 3029
Actual                                                                                   439          439
Entrepreneurs
Estimate               I    47    I    95       I   180    I    59    I              I           |   381
Actual                                                                                   232          232
Projeto Amanha                                                                            5            5
(I) Note: there was a reduction in the number of planned beneficiaries due to the increase in the area of the individual lots.
-20 -



Performance Indicators - Area Settled (ha)
Area Settled  I                                     Year                                           Total
J1989/90 1   1991         1992        1993        1994       1995/99      2000
Tab. de Russas
Small Farmers
Estimate      _650                      1296       2372   1                       -|14318
Actual (l)L
Entrepreneurs
Esfimate              |    1056        2128        3872                                             7056
Actual
Baixo Acarau
Smail Farmers
Estimate    I              855     |   1713   |   3132   |             I           |           |   5700
Actual (1)    l       j            l           l           l           l           1   488          488
Entrepreneurs
Estimate                   400          880    |   1600   |            I           I           |   2880
Actual       7900                                                                                   900
Barreiras
Small Farmers
Estimate                   486          972         1950        1457                               4875
Actual                             I                                   I           1   1972         1972
Entrepreneurs
Estimate                   396          738        1494         1134                               3762
Actual                                         l5005                                                5005
ProjetoAmanh                                                                             63          63
Formoso H
Small Farmers
Estimate_375                            757    I   1514   I   1139                             I   3785
tActual                                        X                                          I        T T I 1 862  862
Entrepreneurs
|Estirnate   |        L   _85           215         385         300                                 985
IActual      T-       T           T          T             I                       1   2150         2150
Project Total
Small Farmers
|Estimate    |        |   2366         4738        8968        2606                                18678
|Actual      l        l            l           l           l           l           |   2834         2834
Entrepreneurs
|Estimate                  1937        3961        7351         1434                               14683
|Actual                            I           I           I           I           I |   1   8055   |   8055
|Projeto  l       l             l           l           l           l           |    63          63
{Amanh- 2 i
- 21-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal         Actual/Latest       Percentage of
Estimate            Estimate           Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                                 US$ million         US$ million
1. Construction of Six Irrigation Schemes                   329.2               322.9                98.1
2. Initial Operation of Irrigation Activities                 26.6                34.6               130.1
3. Technical Assistance, Training & Studies                   37.0                40.9               110.5
Total Baseline Cost                                          392.8               398.4
Physical Contingencies                                       30.2
Price Contingencies                                         42.0
Total Project Costs                                          465.0               398.4
Total Financing Required                                     465.0               398.4
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Appraisal Estimate              |Actual Latest Estimate
Expenditure       ICB      LCB      Other    N/A       Total    ICB    LCB        Other    None    Total
Category                         _
Civil Works      124.9    29.8        --       8.5     163.2    N/A      N/A      N/A       N/A      168.4
Goods &           189.7     6.6       0.6     41.7    238.6    N/A       N/A      N/A       N/A      154.5
Equipment
Consultants &      --       --       45.2      --      45.2     N/A      N/A      N/A       N/A      40.9
Other Services
Operating Costs    --               18.0      --      18.0     N/A      N/A      N/A       N/A       34.6
Total            314.6     36.4      63.8     50.2    465.0    N/A       N/A      N/A       N/A      398.4
- 22 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Proiect                 Appraisal Estimate              ActuaI/Latest Estimate          Perce ntage of Ap raisal
Component         IBRD   Fed. Govt. (*)   Total   IBRD(**)  Fed. Govt.   Total    IBRD   Fed. Govt.   Total
1. Construction of   165.0      164.2      329.2        98.8      217.5      316.3     59.9      132.4       96.1
Six Irrigation
Activities                                                                _
2. Initial          10.0         16.6       26.6         3.3        12.2      15.5     33.0       73.5       58.7
Operation of
Irrigation
Activities
3. Technical       21.0          16.0       37.0        38.3       28.2       66.5    182.4      176.3      179.7
Assistance,
Training &
Studies
Unallocated/        16.0                    72.2
Contingen-
cies
TOTAL         212.0        253.0       465.0       140.5      257.9     398.4      66.3      101.9      85.7
(*) Includes US$50 million in farners' contributions.
(**) IJS$69 million canceled.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
SAR estimates
The economic rate of return of the project was estimated at appraisal as 16%, based on the analysis
of 20 representative farm models, 11 of them corresponding to the primary beneficiaries of the four
subprojects finally implemented.  Five of those models depicted small 6-9 ha farms, four
corresponded to medium-sized 20-50 ha farms and the remaining two portrayed large 80 ha farms.
Although no aggregate financial rate of return for the project was estimated at appraisal, financial
rates of return for the individual models ranged from 44% to 73% for small family units (SFU),
from 26% to 100% for medium-sized entrepreneur farm units (MEU) and from 23% to 33% for
large entrepreneur farm units (LEU). The expected annual net value of production per unit at full
development was estimated at an average US$11,300, US$44,700 and US$161,700 (all values
expressed in constant 10/2000 US$) for SFU, MEU and LEU respectively. It was expected that
those values would be achieved by the tenth year of the project.
Revised estimates at completion
Methodology and assumptions
The economic rate of return was re-estimated using actual and projected production patterns (given
price and production trends detected) for the project already in operation, and new cropping
patterns expected to be used in the agricultural development of the subprojects not yet fully
developed at the time of project completion.
Net incremental project benefits were calculated based on the difference between net benefits from
an imputed "without project" (WO) situation, and net benefits projected at full development for
production models in the "with project" (WP) situation. Given the low level of economic activity in
the WO situation, annual net benefits were estimated at US$21 5/ha.
The WP production patterns used summarize actual data for the period '98-'00 and production
trends forecasts thereafter. The patterns depict a dissimilar evolution of production for SFUs (6-14
ha lpots) than for medium (MEUs, 22-30 ha) and large (LEUs, 50-80 ha) units, reflecting the
differences in plot size, and the technical and entrepreneurial ability of the producer. While MEUs
and LEUs models focus on fruit production, with changes only in the proportion of higher
investment cost items, SFUs show a more complex production picture. SFU models intend to
portray not only the differences in size between small farmers and technicians with larger plots, but
also those in the producer's technical abilities and access to credit.
In that respect, models for the bigger of the smaller plots (16 ha plots assigned to technicians and
agronomists) show higher cropping intensity (147% as opposed to 119% for smaller 6-8 ha family
units) and a heavy reliance from the beginning of the settlement process in higher-valued perennial
fruit crops, requiring larger capital investments and technical expertise, as opposed to less
technically and financially demanding annual crops, more prevalent in smaller-size plots. Following
data gathered from the plots that were already settled at project completion, smaller plots are
modeled showing a heavier initial reliance in annual crops -85% of cultivated land- that diminishes
over a three-year period to a 24% of the cultivated land, with a simultaneous increase in cropping
intensity to 119%. Meanwhile, larger plots are modeled showing a lighter initial reliance in annual
-24 -



crops -47% of cultivated land- that diminishes less dramatically over a three-year period to a 32%
of the cultivated land, with a simultaneous larger increase in cropping intensity to 147%.
Incremental production
Table III-1 in the Appendix shows the main production parameters for the crops considered in the
analysis. The crops taken into account are the most representative raised during the period up to
project closing plus a number of high-value perennials, considered to be the options currently
preferred by medium and large producers because of their marketing and revenue generating
potential. Crops included both in the appraisal document and in the current re-estimate encompass:
beans, corn, rice, bananas, grapes, passion fruit, citrus, mangoes and papaya, while additional crops
considered in this re-estimate include: squash, watermelon, carambola, coconut palms and guava.
The assumed evolution of the settlement process shown in Table III-1 is based on a summary of
actual data until project closing, and projected thereafter for the projects still under construction,
based on the latest works completion schedules available. The projected settlement may differ from
the actual due to problems encountered in implementing the works completion schedules, as well as
problems in accessing financing for the required productive investments by entrepreneurs.
The analysis assumes full utilization of the settled portion and by the time the area under cultivation
stabilizes in 2004, 12% (13,122 ha) would be cultivated by small producers occupying less than 15
ha, 80% (8,445 ha) by medium entrepreneurs and 8% (8,176 ha) by large entrepreneurs occupying
more than 50ha. At full development, the total net cultivated area of 29,743 ha would sustain a
1.11 cropping intensity and yield an overall annual production of some 815 million tons of produce
by 2014.
Table 111-1: Evolution of the settlement process
Year                      Units                                     Area
(cumulative amount)                   (net. cum. irri ated hectares)
Small    Medium     Large      Total     Small    Medium      Large      Total
<17 ha    1749 ha    >50 ha              <17 ha    1749 ha    >50 ha
1991-99                      _          __         _    _ X  L =
2000          250                            250       1750   .                        1750
2001          548       232                  780       4026       6641                10667
2002          631       267         48       946       4738      7565       3376      15679
2003         1165       322        118       1605      9698       8445      8176      26319
2004-21       1593        322       118       2033     13122       8445      8176      29743
Economic rate of return
Aside from the above-mentioned assumptions regarding production systems and the settlement
process, the main parameters utilized in the analysis to re-estimate the ERR include:
* Length of period of base analysis: 30 years
* Replacement period for on-farm irrigation equipment: 12 years.
* Replacement period for groves: 20 years for grapes, citrus trees and coconut palms; 10 years for
carambola, guava and mango trees; 6 years for banana; 3 years for passion fruit; and 2 years for
papaya.
-25 -



*   Farm-gate prices: three-year average values expressed in constant 10/00 US$, taken from the
average monthly prices quoted by CEASA-MG for fruits, and the SIMA system of the Ministry
of Agriculture as well as local prices reported by the technical assistance provider, PLENA.
*   Crop budgets: as supplied by CODEVASF and TA providers for the different subprojects.
*   Price of water (variable K2): US$0,009 /m 3as provided by CODEVASF.
*   Off-farm annual maintenance and replacement costs (fixed KI + K2, common irrigation
infrastructure): US$92/ha.
*   On-farm annual maintenance costs: 3.0 % of total irrigation investments estimated at
US$1,150/ha. Complete replacement of on-farm irrigation systems after the 12th year.
*   Conversion factors for economic prices:
labor = 0.75
equipment and on-farn investments = 0.65
production costs = 0.72
Results
As shown in Table 111-2, the re-estimated ERR, keeping the 30-year period of analysis used in the
appraisal document, is 18% and the NPV for a 12% discount rate is US$132.7 million (constant
10/2000=0 US$). The ERR compares favorably to the 16% rate estimated during appraisal. No
NPV value was provided during appraisal to allow for a comparison with the NPV yielded by the
re-estimate. As in the appraisal document, the economic measures only take into consideration
benefits derived from increased agricultural production, and do not account for spillover benefits
derived from associated project activities in areas such as education and environmental preservation.
Table III-A2 in the Appendix shows the amounts of Net Incremental Benefits derived from the
project along with Gross Incremental Benefits and Total Incremental Costs. The re-estimate results
must be considered as an indication of the potential for profitability of the investments undertaken,
despite the execution delays recorded, if the conditions for the agricultural development phase are
very good.
The corresponding financial rate of return is 16%, with a NPV of US$120.6 million (constant
10/2000=0 US$); no financial rate of return and NPV were calculated at appraisal. Differences in
the economic efficiency measures, despite a slower actual physical implementation and agricultural
development profile of the project, should mostly be accounted for by the smaller share of
lower-profit crops as well as better relative prices of the crops included in the production mix
considered.
Table 111-2: Cost Benefit Analysis
(values in million US$, 2000=0)
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                     Financial Analysis
Appraisal       Latest Estimate      Appraisal        Latest Estimate
Benefits                          N/A               345.7               N/A               444.7
Costs                             N/A               213.0               N/A               324.1
IRR (%)                        15.8 (1)              18.0               N/A                16.0
NPV                               N/A               132.7               N/A               1206
Length of period of analysis: 30 years (1991-202 1)
Discount rate: 12%
(I) IRR calculated in SAR included benefits and costs streams for six subprojects.
- 26 -



A sensitivity analysis was carried out to compare the relative stability of project results for the base
scenario analyzed in comparison to appraisal estimates. Results indicate that re-estimated project
outcomes are more stable than appraisal estimates, with switching values of -39% for gross
incremental benefits, and 62% for total incremental costs, compared to appraisal values of -14%
and 39% respectively. A mapping of the sensitivity is shown in Table 111-3; results indicate a
slightly higher sensitivity to drops in benefits, but overall they are robust and the re-estimated rate
of return remains stable up to simultaneous 20% drops in project costs and benefits.
Table 111-3: Project Sensitivity Analysis: ERRs (%)
Benefits
+20%          +10%          Same          -10%           -20%
+20%               19.6          18.5          17.3          15.9           14.4
+10%               20.0          18.9          17.7          16.3           14.9
Costs         Same               20.3          19.2           18.0          16.8          15.3
-10%               20.6          19.5          18.4          17.1           15.7
-20%               20.9          19.9          18.8          17.5           16.2
However, it must be borne in mind that these results originate from a base scenario in which most of
the agricultural development phase is projected, not actual, and that there have already been
problems with access to credit by entrepreneur farmers which, if not solved, may further delay
implementation of the agricultural development phase. The same consideration is obviously valid
for the sensitivity analysis of the individual subprojects. Table III-4 shows that the EER yields by
the re-estimate at completion are higher than those estimated at appraisal (no NPVs were provided
at appraisal to allow for comparison) and very stable to changes in benefits and operating costs. It
is noted that the comparison between appraisal and completion estimates is included for informative
purposes, and no other value should be bestowed on it given the aforementioned limitations and the
use of the EERs, instead of NPVs, as a base for comparison.
Table 111-4: Sub-Project Summary Cost-Benefit and Sensitivity Analyses
Appraisal    ]                   Re-Estimate at Completion
Sub-Project            EER                 EER                  Switch Values (% change)
Benefits             Costs
Barreiras                   14.2                17.1                -33                +126
Formosa H                   16.7               20.5                 -47                +190
Tabuleiros Russas           18.5                19.9                -46                +173
Baixo Acarau                17.1                19.9                -45                +154
- 27 -



Appendix - Annex 3
Table III -Al: Main production parameters by crop
Product      Maximum yield   Maximum area    Average Cost    Average Price
(ton/ha)(l)        (ha) (1)      (US$/halyr) (2)   (US$/ton) (2)
Beans                 2.4              2,043              665              360
Corn                  7.2              1,110              535               93
Rice                  5.4               662               508               95
Squash                17.0              319               820               85
Watermelon            30.0             1,782             1,104              83
Banana                127.7            5,789             2,772             135
Carambola             23.3             1,413             2,075             335
Coconut               53.0             3,156             1,056              67
Grapes                45.0             2,996             2,400             550
Guava                  8.6             2,996             3,149              1.1
Lime                  41.0             2,957             2,378             130
Mango                 35.0             3,761              995              275
Papaya                40.0             2,107              420               167
Passion fruit         18.0             2,342             2,464             355
(I) Values shown are the maximum utilized for estimation purposes. Yields shown do not reflect average
production values for multi-year crops, and area values may or may not correspond to the areas sown
once the production systems stabilize.
(2) Costs and prices are expressed in constant 10/2000 US$. Costs shown are the average over the life-
span of the crop. Prices are the average farm gate prices over the 1998-2000 period.
- 28 -



Table III -A2: Total Net Incremental Benefits*
Year   Gross Inc.  Off-farm    On-farm      Total      Total
Benefits  Investment    Costs   Inc. Costs Net Inc. Ben.
1991                2,000.0                2,000.0    (2,000.0)
1992                2,468.6                2,468.6    (2,468.6)
1993                6,644.9                6,644.9    (6,644.9)
1994                6,020.7                6,020.7    (6,020.7)
1995                34,926.4              34,926.4   (34,926.4)
1996                57,501.5              57,501.5   (57,501.5)
1997  1             78,888.6              78,888.6   (78,888.6)
1998                43,921.4              43,921.4   (43,921.4)
1999                17,490.7              17,490.7   (17,490.7)
2000     1,825.2    10,207.7    11,19.6    11,327.2   (9,502.0)
2001     8,583.1    11,142.3    9,285.5    20,427.8   (11,884.8)
2002    22,114.7               16,744.7   16,744.7    5,369.9
2003    47,941.6               28,038.5   28,038.5    19,903.1
2004    84,714.8               36,740.5   36,740.5    47,974.3
2005    129,958.7              41,467.3   41,467.3    88,490.8
2006    175,865.7              41,392.8   41,392.8   134,472.9
2007    208,934.9 T            44,210.7   44,210.7    164,724.2
2008    230,524.1 l            45,218.9   45,218.9    185,305.2
2009    240,279.0  _           44,536.4   44,536.4    195,742.6
2010    243,383.9              46,025.4   46,025.4   197,358.4
2011    249,609.1              47,041.2   47,041.2    196,567.9
2012    245,797.2              50,387.9   50,387.9    195,409.3
2013    239,050.1              47,617.2   47,617.2    191,432.9
2014    238,257.9              51,241.9   51,241.9    187,016.0
2015    238,069.0              45,129.1   45,129.1    192,939.9
2016    239,740.7              44,821.9   44,821.9    194,918.8
2017    245,936.9              45,665.3   45,665.3   200,271.6
2018    253,586.2 l            44,971.8   44,971.8   208,614.4
2019    253,085.2              46,359.2   46,359.2   206,725.9
2021    248,437.9 l          1 46,274.4   46,274.4   202,163.5
* Economic values expressed in US$ '000 (2000-0)
Net Present Value at 12% 0CC  US$28.3 million
Intemal Rate ofReturn: 18.0%
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Preparation,                3   IrrEng, OpOff, Econ
11/88
Appraisal/Negotiation
Pre-Appraisal,              4   Agric, IrrEng, Econ
1/89
Appraisal, 5/89             4   Agric, IrrEng, Econ
Supervision
7/91                         1  IrrEng
10/91                        1  IrrEng
4/92                         1   IrrEng
12/92                       2   IrrEngEcon
3/93                         1   IrrEng
Follow-up, 6/93              1  IrrEng
10/93                       1   IrrEng
Follow-up, 10/94             3   IrrEng, WatResMgmt
2/95                         1  WatResMgmt                          S             U
Follow-up, 6/95              1   WatResMgmt
10/95                        1  WatResMgmt                          S             U
Follow-up, 12/95             1   IrrEng
3/96                         1  WatResMgmt                          S             S
7/96                         J  WatResMgmt                          S             s
7/97                         1   WatResMgmt                         S             S
2/98                         1  WatResMgmt                          S             S
6/98                         1  WatResMgmt                          S             S
4/99                         2   WatResMgmt, IrrEng                 S             S
12/99                        1  WatResMgmt                          S             S
3/00                         1  WatResMgmt                          U             S
10/00                       3   WatResMgtn, IrrEng,AgEcon           U             S
ICR
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USs ('000)
Identification/Preparation               46.2                       159.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    32.9                        84.7
Supervision                             149.0                       236.6
ICR                                                                  32.9
Total                                   228.1                       513.2
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Sector Policies                        OH  OSUOM  * N  O NA
3 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development               O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Gender                            O H O SU * M O N O NA
OI Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  S SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
M Lending                                             OHS OS *U OHU
M Supervision                                         OHS *s   OU   OHU
M Overall                                             OHS *S  O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS   *  U  O HU
? Government implementation performance               O HS O S  *  U  0 HU
2Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   *  u  O HU
F Overall                                             OHS OS  * u O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Staff Appraisal Document, dated June 19, 1990.
*   Memorandum of the President, dated June 22, 1990.
*   Loan Agreement, dated April 19, 1991.
*   Project Agreement, dated April 19, 1991.
*   Letter of extension of Loan Agreement, dated June 16, 1999.
* Letter of amendment to Loan Agreement, dated May 25, 2000.
*   CD containing miscellaneous correspondence and documents related to project (approximately 168
documents on CD).
- 33 -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21804
~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A  .Z I lI
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECT
PARA                                              for dwad F"St,    0    m    W    3W
aJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MD 21 
,~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ R. RAX'~ NATALR
TOCTNRANES  -                       R \
414
12C$ NORr E   A/                   Atk/ 1
>   X        d                 AADOR               v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oont 0PW .C
! =7 It   . F5
TrA Ma,s     /'                                               BRZI >      $SF
200
SAG PAULO                         SANTOAU
TC    N                                                                     SPEB 1989
-12'/f  NORTHE                                        A2
7rs arosReewir3  tRA  s)        (>  n    OZ  .N&T  RMLEGIO
SAO PAUL(D  i  '  9 i ~        XIRITO,ORMOSA H.              A   ONO$
A   CODEVA~SEPE8R18






IBRD 21805
NATIONAL IRRIGATION
ION ARE                                                     ~~~~PROGRAM
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION
I PROJECT
ACARAU IRRIGATION SCHEME
GENERAL LAYOUT
IRRIGATED PLOTS
EXISTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES
*RESETTLERS PLOTS
ADJACENT SMALL HOLDERS
SETTLEMENT CENTERS
A                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRESSUJRE LNES
CANALS
RESERRVOIRE
RIVERS
AAN ROADS
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
I    EEICs     ATLANTIC
AT~  OCEAN
/  B R A  Z IL                  NORTHEAST
REGION
KILOMETEES[/ 
2                                                      *A     ARAGLJAT
MILES                                        MGENTIN~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ATLANTIC
LA pad A Th LALL Sal.  S. AIapl.AAal    Aapp,adp, .l.AAQl.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                   K!                /                OCEANCEA
I      ARJAS'S           ~~~~~SEPTEMRER 19R9



