Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-i            /7O- -3 7G-
Report No. 8038-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECT
JANUARY 19, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a  cted disbon and may be used by  npleSs only In the pedonnawe of
their oldicid dties Its contents may not otherwise be diesed   _    Wodd Bak autnorzton.



CURCRY NQUIVALTS
(As of May 15, 1989)
Currency Unit   -  Nev Brazilian Cruzado (NCz$)
US$1.00          -  NCz$ 1.112 (May 1989) 1/
NCZ$1.00         -  USS  0.8952
VEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil = January 1 to December 31
Project                -  January 1 to December 31
1/ As of December 11, 1989 (negotiations) the exchange rate was US$1.00 =
NCz$ 7,776.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYNS
BB             -  Banco de Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
CEPISA            Centrais Eldtricas do Pisul
(State Electric Company of Paidu)
CODEVASF       -  Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Slo irancisco
(Sao Francisco Valley Development Company'
COELBA         -  Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
(State Electric Company of Bahia)
COELCE         -  Companhia Energetica do Ceart
(State Electric Company of Cear6)
CHESF          -  Companhia Hidro-Eldtrica do Sao Francisco
(Sbo Francisco Valley Bydruelectric Company)
DNOCS          - Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department for Drought Related Works)
DNOS           -  Departamento Nacional de Obras e Saneamento
(National Department of Sanitary Works)
MINAGRI        - Ministerio da Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
POA            -  Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
PROINE         -  Programa de Irrigagbo para o Nordeste
(Irrigation Program for the Northeast)
PRONI          -  Programa Nacional de Irriga;&o
(National Irrigation Program)
RIMA           -  Relat6rio de Impacto sobre o Meio Ambiente
(Environmental Impact Statement)
SA             -  Special Account
SEPRONI        -  Secretaria Executiva do Programa Nacional de Irrigaqao
(Executive Secretariat for the National Irrigation
Program)
SUCAM          -  Superintendencia de Campanha de Sa6de P6blica
(Superintendency of Public Bealth Campaigns)
USBR           - United States Bureau of Reclamation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PROGRf-'
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Paste No.
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................****...........     1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ................... ............   4
Agriculture in the National Economy ....................    4
Agricultural Development Policy     .      ............    4
The Rural Northeast .. .  . .....         .............. .   5
Irrigation Development in Brazil and the Northeast .....    6
Past Bank Lending in the Agricultural Sector ...........    7
III.  TEE PROJECT  9..   ..      . ..    ............*9
A* GENERAL .....9...........................9
Rationale for Bank Involvement         ....             9
Project Origin and Objectives  9...................    9
The Project Area .      ....... .. .. . ......... .    10
Project Beneficiaries ................................    10
Environmental Aspects ... . .......   ....              11
Resettlement of the Affected Population       .... 11
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...... ..... ...   12
Construction of Six New Irrigation Schemes .........    12
Initial Operation of the Private Irrigation
Districts  ......................                       1S
Technical Assistance and Consultant Services ..         16
Complementary Activities to the Project.                16
Implementation Schedule and Status of Project
Preparation ....................    .. ..........   17
The project is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
which visited Brazil from May 15, 1989 to June 16, 1989. The
mission was comprised of Messrs. C. Emanuel (Mission Leader),
Francesco Vita, Pari Awan (FAO/CP), and Michael Raczynski
(Consultant).



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Pane No.
C.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION ......................... *..   .    17
Federal Level ...... . .... ...... .....   ....... **           17
Irrigation Districts Organization            ..................    19
Accounts and Auditing ........................... .             20
Monitoring .................................................    21
D.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................. .......            21
Costs .........................                                 21
Financing Plan   ..........         . .................    21
Procurement .....................                               22
Disbursements ...............          ..      ...........    24
Cost Recovery. ................................                 25
Z.  PROJECT BENEFITS ............... ..             ..               26
Agricultural Production ....................26
Marketing  ............. . . . . ... ..........    26
fmployment and Farm Income              .........    26
P.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....2......... ... ......... ...              27
Economic Rates of Return          .............    27
Sensitivity Tests .. ........................ .   27
G.  PROJECT RISKS ................ . . ..28..    2
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED kND RECOMMENDATIONS               28
ANNEXES
I.  CODEVASP IRRIGATION SCHEMES (Bahia)  ....................    32
Pormoso "H  Irrigation Scheme ......................    32
Barreiras Norte Irrigation Scheme   ..................    34
II.  DROCS IRRIGATION SCHEMES (CearA)               .......................    36
Acarad Irrigation Scheme ...........         ................   36
Tabuleiros de Russas Irrigation Scheme ... .........            38
III.  DNOS IRRIGATION SCHEMES (Piaul)               ........................    40
Guadalupe Irrigation Scheme ........................    40
Tabuleiros Litoraneos Irrigation Scheme   ............    42



- iii 
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV. AGRICULTURU PRODUCTION ...........    .................. .   44
foroso 'U Irrigation Scheme ......................   44
Barreiras Norte Irrigation Scheme ..................   45
Acarah Irrigation Schee ......... 40* .............    46
Tabuleiros lussas Irrigation Scheme .................    47
Guadalupe Irrigation Scheme ........................   48
Tabuleiros Litor8neos Irrigation Schbme ............   49
Cropping Patterns, Yialds and Production ...........   49
V. SZTTLDMENT OF BNEFICIARIES AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION..    52
Settlement of Beneficiaries ........................#   52
Agricultural Extension . ........... .. .............. .   54
VI.  TEE EXECUTING AGENCIES .................... ... ... .....-*   56
Special Secretariat for the National Irrigation
Program  (SEPRONI)   .............    .....................  56
So Francisco Valley Development Company (CODEVASF)    57
National Department of Drought Related Works (DNOCS)    58
National Department of Sanitary Works (DNOS) .......   59
Chart 1: Organization Chart of Ministry of
Agriculture .....................    61
VII. PROJECT COST SUMMARY AND PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR ....   62
VIII. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS       63
Table ls Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements      63
Chart Is Imlementation Schedule .      ............ ...*   64
IX.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND SENSITIVITY TESTS    ................   65
Economic Analysis ..................................   65
X. DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES ....     ...............   68
Map No. IBID 21804
IBID 21805



BRAZIL
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PROGRAM
NORTEZAST IRRIGATION I P-OJECT
1   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers            Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing Agencies:  Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI)s Sao Francisco
Valley Development Company (CODEVASP); National
Department for Anti-Drought Works (DNOCS); and
National Department for Sanitation (DNOS).
Amounts              US$210.0 Million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries:       The project would benefit about 3,380 small farmers to
be settled on 6 to 8 ha plots, 590 medium-size farmers
who would be allocated farms of 16 to 20 ha and about
270 large farmers who, through a bidding process,
would obtain plots of 24 to 80 ha. In addition, the
project would provide 2 to 4 ha plots for about 980
smaller holders currently living in the project area
and access to waterpoints or equipment kits for about
160 small holders in areas adjacent to the project.
Also, some additional 24,000 low-income rural families
would benefit from the project through the creation of
permanent and part-time employment.
Protect
Obiectives and
Descriptions         The proposed project would be part of the National
Irrigation Program. Its main objectives are: (i) to
increase agricultural production in the drought-prone
area of the Brazilian Northeast, through the
development of irrigation of some 51,000 ha; and
($i) to strengthen institutional arrangements for
irrigation development by promoting increased farmer
involvement through the creation of private irrigation
districts and by improving public agency performance.
The project would finances (a) the construction of six
public irrigation schemes in three Northeastern
States; (b) the initial operation of private
irrigation districts; and (c) the provision of
technical assistance to the executing agencies. The
irrigation schemes would be implemented by CODEVASF
(Formoso H and Barreiras Norte, Bahia), DNOCS



- 2 -
(Tabuleiros de Russas and Acarau, Ceara) and DNOS
(Tabuleiros Litoraneos and Guadalupe, Piaui).
MINAGRI's Executive Secretariat for the National
Irrigation Program would provide overall coordination
and supervision. At the beginning of the agricultural
production stage, projects built by DNOS would be
transferred to DNOCS. Irrigation districts would be
organized in each irrigation scheme to provide support
services to members and to operate and maintain the
project works, with substantial private sector
participation.
Prolect Risks.        The risks associated with the project ares (a) delays
and shortfalls in counterpart funding;
(b) institutional inefficiency; and (c) potential
farmer reluctance to pay water charges for full
recovery of capital and operetion and maintenance
costs. To minimize the risk of inadequate counterpart
funds, during negotiations ex licit agreements were
provided by the Federal Government on funding
procedures and budget amounts. To ensure efficient
implementation, Project Management Units would be
established in eacn of the Executing Agencies,
reporting directly to the head of the agency; field
units would also be established at each project site.
The project would also include considerable technical
assistance to develop the federal agencies'
institutional capacity. The collection of water
charges by local irrigation districts and improved
enforcement of legal punitive measures to be set forth
in the contracts to be signed with the farmers should
lead to effective cost recovery.



ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCINC
(US$ Million)
Estimated Project Costs                 Local      Foreign      Total
---------------------------------------------------------------__---------
A.     Construction of Six Irrigation Schemes
Irrigation Works              221.1         80.8      302.9
Electrical Networks             9.2          4.8       14.0
Road System                     7.8          1.4        9.2
Administrative buildings        2.7          0.4        3.1
Sub-Total                     241.8         87.4      329.2
B.     Initial Operation of the Irrigation Districts
Management of the
irrigation Districts          2.1          0.1        2.2
Agricultural Services           2.0          0.1        2.1
Operation and Maintenance      16.9          4.0       20.9
Environmental Protection
Measures                      1.3          0.1        1.4
Sub-Total                      22.3          4.3       26.6
C.     Technical Assistance and Consultant Services
Technical Assistance            3.0          8.0       11.0
Monitoring System               3.0          0.3        3.3
Consultant Services            18.2          4.5       22.7
Sub-Total                      24.2         12.8       37.0
TOTAL BASELIUIE COSTS                   288.3        104.5      392.8
Physical Contingencies                   22.2          8.0       30.2
Price Contingencies                      31.0         11.0       42.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     341.5        123.5      465.0
FINANCING PLAN
Government                              205.0          -        205.0
IBRD                                     86.5        123.5      210.0
Farmers                                  50.0          -         50.0
TOTAL                                   341.5        123.5      465.0 a/
Estimated Disbursements                                -
Bank FY              1990    1991    1992    1993    1994     1995
Annual                7.8b/  59.0    62.2    54.8    22.0      4.2
Cumulative            7.8   66.8   129.0   183.8   205.8    210.0
Rate of Return: 16Z
(a) Including about US$44.0 M equivalent of local taxes and duties.
(b) Including an initial deposit of US$5.75 M into the Special Accounts.



1I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01     Throughout the postwar period. until the 1980s, the economy grew
at a high average annual rate of 7.12. The agricultural sector also
perforwd well, achieving an average annul growth rate of about 4.4Z over
the same period. However, the outputs of both the industrial and service
sectors increased at much faster rates - 8.51 and 7.OZ, respectively. As a
result, agriculture's share in GDP declined froa about 252 in 1950 to 1OZ
In 1980.
2.02     Agricultural production growth prior to 1980 was led by the growth
of non-traditional exports (mainly soybeans and citrus)z Production
Increases came almost entirely from new area expansion as opposed to
increases in yields. Production was particularly dynamic in the expanding
frontier states of the Center-West (Goi^s and Hato Grosso do Sul) and parts
of Minas Gerais.
2.03     In the early 19809, the economy slowed down, reflecting declines
In industrial production and stagnation in agriculture. In addition, the
expansion of the agricultural frontier came to a virtual halt, with the
exception of areas in the North. In the last couple of years, agricultural
growth has resumed. However, the sources of growth appear to be changing.
With the recent introduction of new varieties. made possible by
technological advances in agricultural research, yields on traditionai
export crops (cotton, tobacco and coffee) and many food crops (rice, maize
and wheat) have increased significantly. During the 1980:, very little
change occurred in the overall structure of output. By 1987, agriculture
still accounted for about 101 of GDP. Its share in the labor force and
total exports was 25Z and 43?, respectively.
Agricultural Development Policy
2.04     Government policies have had a major impact on the performance of
X           the agricultural sector.  Probably the most important action in this regard
was Brazil's decision in the postwar era to embark on an import-
substitution, industrialization strategy. This strategy has been pursued
through a variety of measures, including an overvalued currency,
restrictive trade policies, and from time to time, outright bans and quotas
on agricultural exports. The effect has been to implicitly tax
agriculture. Partially to compensate for this, subsidized rural credit was
introduced, but this only created further distortions and benefitted mainly
large producers. Recently, the Government has moved to change some of
these policies. The Bank has supported som of these reforms under the
Credit and Marketing Reform Project (Loan 2727-BR). Vith respect to rural
credit, the Government is now moving in the direction of reducing the
availability of official (subsidized) credit and relying on private finance
at market interest rates. A recent Bank-supported agricultural credit
operation, the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR), is aimed at
assisting the Government to achieve this objective.
2.05     While the Government policy agenda during the 1980s has been
dominated by macroeconomic stabilization concerns, farmrs, faced with the



problem of increastng production costs and falling coamodity prices, have
begun to seek more cost-effective technologies and to incensify the use of
existing farm land and rural infrastructure. This is already evident in
the country's major agricultural areas in the South and Southeast. There
is growfig interest in irrigation, soil conservation, environmental
protection, livestock disease control, more efficient marketing and storage
and more widespread application of the results of agricultural r esrch.
Recent evidence Indicates that the supply of unclaimed agricultural land
with economic potential is rapidly diminishing. This fact, combined with
the Government's recent initiatives to vithdraw part of the various fiscal
incentives that have, to an important eztent, fueled this expansion,
suggest that the growth of the land frontier may be coming to a close.
Agricultural growth in the future is expected to come increasingly from
more land-intensive production methods.
The Rural Northeast
2.0'     The Northeast of Brazil comprises the States of Maranhac, PiauS.
Cear6, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia,
the northern part of Minas Gerais and the island of Fernando de Noronha.
The region covers a total area of over 1.5 million kms (182 of the
country's total area).
2.07     The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since
the late 180us because of periodic droughts, uncertain rainfall, skewed
land distribution, and limited employment opportunities. These problems
have resulted in high levels of poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to
1983, 3.3 million people migrated from the region, partially in response to
a five-year drought (1979-1983). In 1980, the Northeast had a total
population of 35 million (about 292 of the country's total), growing at
2.22 per annum with a population density of 22.5 inhabitants per kmi. In
1985, 452 of the population lived in rural areas and more than 39S of the
work force was engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly
concentrated: Farms under 10 ha (702 of all farms) occupy less than 62 of
the farm areat fanms over 500 ha (12 of all farms) occupy 472 of the farm
area. Rural incomes are low. In 1985, about half of the Northeast rural
population earned one quarter or less of the official minimum wage (about
US$600 annually).
2.08     The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian agriculture; many regionally produced commodities (cotton,
sisal, cassava and sugar) represent significant shares of national
production. The Zona da Hata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture. The Agreste, a transitional zone contiguous vith
semi-arid areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as t?"e raising of
cattle. The sparsely populated, semi-arid Sertao is the largest of the
sub-regions and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts. Irrigated
agriculture represents only a small proportion of land under cultivation.
Irrigated lands are mainly located along the Sao Francisco River and
downstream of storage dams.



- 6 -
Irrigation DeveloDment in Brazil and the Northeast
2.09     With the exception of paddy rice and limited riverine strLps,
irrigated crop production is a fairly recent development in Brazil. In
1970, the total irrigated area In tho country was only 0.3 million ha.
Today it Is estimted at over 2.2 million ha, of which about 440,000 ha are
in the Wortheast legion. Most of Brazilian irrigation development was
undertaken by the private sector, but in the Northeast about 92,000 ha have
been developed by three federal agencies, the Sao Francisco Valley
Development Company (CODEVASP), the National Department for Anti-Drought
Works (DMOCS), and to a lesser extent, the National DepartmEnt for
Sanitation (DN0). CODEVASF, established in 1974, is responsible for the
implementation of major public irrigation system In the Sao Francisco
River Valley. It currently operates 18 lrri&ation projects wLth some
66,000 ha developed and 15,000 ha in various stages of construction,  As a
public sector enterprise, modelled oan the U.S. Tennessee Valley Authority,
it has greater autonomy than either DNOCS and DNOS (both of which are
"autarchies vith limited auto"nomy). CODEVAS? has around 2,200 permanent
staff, many of them highly qualified agricultural and irrigation
technicians. DNOCS is responsible for the construction of drought and
flood protection works and irrigation infrastructure in other river valleys
in the Northeast. It operates 23 irrigation schemes In one of the most
difficult environments in the country (the smi-arid sertlo), covering some
21,000 ha fully developed and 8,500 ha in different stages of
implementation. In the past, its performance in irrigation development has
been poor due to overly centralized decision making at the project level,
excessive and unsuitable staff, administrative interference In its
operations, and overly paternalistic policies. To improve its performance,
DUOCS is currently undergoing administrative and organizational reform and
develcping more participatory approaches, including farmer involvement in
project management. DNOS is responsible for the construction and operation
of large-scale public works to protect areas from periodic floods, mostly
in the Southeast and South. In the past, DNOS also built and operated
public irrigation infrastructure Jn the South. In the Northeast, DNOS is
currently building five irrigation schemes, covering a net area of about
7,900 ha. While its construction capacity is satisfactory, only a few of
DNOS's 2,300 permanent staff are trained agricultural and irrigation
technicians. In general, past public irrigation development has been slow,
although some projects, including the Bank-financed Sbo Francisco I (Loan
1153-BR) and Sao Francisco II (Loan 1729-BR) projects, have been relatively
successful (para.2.14).
2.10     In February 1986, the Government consolidated most federal
irrigation functions in a new National Irrigation Program office within the
Presidency, and placed it under the direction of an Extraordinary Minister
of Irrigation Affairs. The Minister was charged with drafting the policy
and organizational framework for accelerating private sector investment,
rationalizing and expanding public sector agency activities, particularly
in the Northeast, and securing support for an integrated national
irrigation development effort.   The National Irrigation Program was
created vith two coordinating bodies--PROINE (Northeast Irrigation Program)
and PRONI (National Irrigation Program). These two bodies were responsible
for the coordination and promotion of irrigation programs in the Northeast
and in the rest of the country, respectively. Plans were to increase the
total irrigated area in Brazil by 3.0 million ha, or 1202, over five years



-7-
(1986-90)--400,000 ha of public and 600,000 ha of private irrigation in the
Northeast, and 2.0 amllion ha of private irrigation in the rest of the
country. These targets have been scaled back considerably over the past
two years because of PRONI's and PROINR's initial planning and coordination
difficulties, a growing understanding of the technical and institutional
constraints, cutbacks in the availability of federal and state funds, and
the dampened economic environment within the country. Recently, PROIH was
merged Into PRONI, and under a January 1989 administrative reform, the
Special Ministry of Irrigation was abolished and PM0NI was transferred to
the Ministry of Agriculture. PRONI continues to operate with the same
structure and staff within a recently created Executive Secretariat for the
National Irrigation Program CSEPRONI).
2.11     After a series of issues-oriented discussions within Brazil and
the Bank in 1988, the Government decided to launch an irrigation subsector
review. The review was carried out in two stagess a Government study
followed by a joint Government/World Bank discussion of the subsector in
the first half of 1989. Among other topics, the subsector review
identified several major reasons for the poor past performance of public
interventions in the irrigation subsector in the Northeast region (para.
2.09)s (a) non-economically viable agricultural development plans based on
inexperienced, small farmers growing subsistence crops; (b) inadequate
selection of investments in the subsector; (c) serious institutional
constraints; and (d) lack of timely provision of funds for project
implementation. With regard to future public irrigation projects in the
Northeast, the Subsector Review recommended thats (a) future schemes
should be economically viable and production-oriented; (b) operation and
maintenance costs and public investments in off-farm irrigation
infrastructure should be recovered from beneficiaries through water
charges; (c) private autonomous irrigation associations or districts should
be organized to handle overall management; (d) most future irrigation
development should be demand-driven, with maximum participation of the
private sector and the beneficiaries; and (e) CODEVASF and DNOCS should
limit their development activities to the Sao Francisco basin and to the
areas outside of the basin, respectively; DNOS should finish works already
started and progressively limit its role to the supervision of projects
which it has constructed.
Past Bank Lending in the Agricultural Sector
2.12    As of December 31, 1989, the Bank had made 55 loans, totalling
US$4,607.8 million (net of cancellations), for agricultural and rural
development in Brazil. These loans include: one agricultural credit and
export loan for US$303 million: one agricultural credit loan for US$300
milliont one credit and marketing reform loan for US$500 million; two
supplemental loans for US$30.5 million under the 1983 Special Action
Program; four loans for US$785.8 million for agroindustriess three for
US$111.5 million, for livestock, including an animal disease control
project of US$51 million; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; three
for US$147.0 million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
one for US$48.5 million for forestry development; one for US$195 million
for the irrigation subsector; and 34, totalling US$1,81A.3 million for
various settlement, irrigation, land management and rural development



projects in the Northeast, in Hinas Gerais (the Southeast), Paran. (the
South), and in the North and Northwest.
2.13     In support of PRONI, the Bok has granted loans for the Northeast
Technical Assistance and Irrigation Engineering Project (Loan 2680-BR) for
US$48 million in March 1986; the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation
Project (Loan 2719-BR) for US$57 million in Hay 1986; the Itaparica
Resettlement and Irrigation Project (Loan 2883-8R) for US$132 million
approved in November 1987; the Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2950-BR
approved in June 1988); and the Jaiba Irrigation Project (Loan 3018-BR) for
US$71.0 million approved in December 1988. The engineering project
provides technical and financial support for regional irrigation planning
and detailed study and design of possible future public irrigation
projects. The Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project is
implemented by CODEVASF and provides for the rehabilitation of 17,800 ha or
irrigated land and the development of some 11,000 ha of new lands. The
Itaparica project provides for the development of some 17,700 ha of
irrigation for some 5,300 families resettled as a result of the
construction of the Itaparica Hydroelectric Project. The Jaiba Project
provides for the development of irrigated agriculture on some 23,600 ha in
zhe northeast region of the State of Minas Gerais. The Irrigation
Subsector Project provides technical and finacial support for private
irrigation development in the highlands and flood plains of the Center
West, Southeast, and Southern regions of the country. Although initial
implementation in some cases has been slow, the projects are progressing
satisfactorily.
2.14     Prior to these recent irrigation efforts, the Bank was involved in
two other CODEVASF irrigation projects. The Lower So Francisco I Polder
Project (Loan 1153-BR for US$23 million, approved in August 1975) and the
Lower Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project (Loan 1729-BR for US$29.0
approved in June 1979, and Supplemental Loan 1729-1-BR for US$7.7 approved
in December 1983) were a follow-up to the Paulo Alfonso IV/Sobradinho
Hydropower Project. The projects were needed to compensate for changes in
the flow regime of the river caused by the operation of the hydropower
project, which affected the fertile floodlands (varzeas) downstream of the
dam. The projects financed the construction of protective dikes and the
establisbment of irrigation in six large flood plains (12,000 ha),
improving the livelihood of about 11,000 families. During the first years,
the projects suffered serious delays mainly due to organizational
difficulties within CODEVASF, and inadequate implementation of social and
land tenure improvement activities. However, the Project Performance Audit
Report for the Lower Sao Francisco I Polder Project and the Project
Completion Report for the Sio Francisco II Irrigation Project showed that
despite these implementation delays and lower than expected economic rates
of return, net income of beneficiaries increased beyond original estimates
and many small farmers moved from subsistence agriculture to commercial
farming. In addition, yields have been improving considerably in recent
years, at times reaching values higher than appraisal estimates.



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01     The Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil is to support policies
and investments that will encourage economic growth and social development
in a context of macroeconomic stability, vith emphasis on efficient
resource allocation and administration in the public sector, and
appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor.
Irrigation development, because of its ability to intensity use of
agricultural lands and to increase production and productivity, is
potentially one of the most cost-effective strategies for achieving sector
efficiency and growth. The Bank, through its support for selected
interventions, including the Northeast Irrigation Engineering Project (Loan
2680-BR), the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project (Loan
1729-BR), the Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2950-BR) and the Jaiba
Irrigation Project (Loan 3013-BR) as well as through its sector work,
including the joint Irrigation Subsector Review (para. 2.11), is assisting
the Government in formulating and implementing new policies and operational
strategies for a more efficient and rapid subsector development. Through
its support for the proposed project, the Bank would assist the Government
in implementing reforms with respect to public irrigation in the Northeast
on a relatively broad scale. Finally, since the proposed project would
generate increased economic activity and employment opportunities in rural
areas of the country's poirest region, the Bank would also be assisting
Government efforts to alleviate poverty in the Northeast.
Proiect Origin and Ob1ectives
3.02     The main objective of the project is to increase agricultural
production in the drought-prone area of the Brazilian Northeast through the
development of irrigation on some 51,000 ha. In addition to this
production objective, a fundamental objective of the project is to further
subsector development by addressing a range of institutional issues within
a group of agencies who will be engaged in future irrigation development.
As a part of this objective, improved project management and operation and
maintenance arrangements would be implemented through the creation of
private irrigation districts in each of the irrigation schemes under the
project.   These arrangements would be put into place on a large scale for
the first time outside of the Sao Francisco River Basin.
3.03     Following the creation of PROINE, the Bank helped finance the
Northeast Irrigation Engineering Project (para. 2.13) which includes the
preparation of: (a) a number of subsector studies focused on major issues
such as training, cost recovery and operation and maintenance; and
(b) prefeasibility, feasibility, and detailed designs for some of the most
potentially promising public irrigation projects in the Northeast. The
proposed project would finance the subsequent stages of construction of six
medium-size irrigation schemes prepared by the Government with the
assistance of private coneulting firms and the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation
(USBR) (para. 3.25). The present project forms part of the National
Irrigation Program (1990-1995) outlined in the sector review and follows
its recoimendations.



- 10 -
The Prolect Area
3.04     The irrigation schemes are located in the States of Bahla (Formoso
I and Barreiras Norte), Cear6 (Acara6 and Tabuleiros de Russas), and Piaui
(Guadalupe and Tabuleiros Litordnos). All of thm lie within the drought
polygon In the Northeast, which is characterized by monthly tmperatures of
210 to 270 and annual rainfall concentrated in a five-month period and
averaging from 250 - to 1,200  e.  Undependable rainfall is the major
constraint for rainfed agricultural productlon In the project area. Since
1900 there have been 12 severe drought periods, the most recent of which
occurred during the period 1979-1983. In years of norml' rainfall the
erratic distribution of rainfall during the growing season also adversely
affects agricultural production. Cotton and subsistence crops are the
hardest hit by these severe climtic conditions. Extensive analysis shows
that for beans (average growing period of 80 days) the probability of
complete production failure in any given year varies from 38-95S, while for
maize (average growing period of 120 days), it varies from 44-98Z,
depending on location.
3.05     The drought-polygon area has a limited potential for irrigation
development. Some 80Z of the region has shallow soils of crystalline
origin with poor fertility and low water storage capacity, and overlying
rocks with limited aquifers, sometimes containing saline ground water.
Also, most of the region's rivers have intermittent, torrential flows nd
remain dry during part of the year, or even throughout the year during
droughts. To conserve rainfall and reduce flood risks, the Government has
built some 292 medium and large reservoirs over the last 80 years with
total storage capacity of more than 17 billion ms. At present, there are
only a limited number of locations, including those selected under the
project, where sufficient water can be economically brought to land of
adequate fertility to enhance agricultural production.
Proiect Beneficiaries
3.06     The project would have four types of direct beneficiaries in order
to maximize returns from relatively high investment and operational costs
and to ensure improved technology transfer to small farmers. The four
types include: (a) about 3,380 qualified small farmers (6 to 8 ha plots)
selected according to agreed criteria that ensure their capability to
operate their holdings on a commercial basis without government subsidies;
(b) about 590 medium size holders (16 to 24 ha plots), preferably farmers
or agricultural technicians with proven experience in commercial farming;
(c) about 270 large irrigators, who through a bidding process would acquire
farms ranging from 24 to 100 ha; and (d) about 980 small farm families
currently living in the areas to be deweloped. The last type of
beneficiary would be allotted 2 to 4 ha irrigated plots close to their
present homes within the project area (para. 3.10). In addition, the
project would provide simple irrigation equipment for about 160 small
holders who live in areas directly adjacent to the project (Annex V). The
project would also benefit some 24,000 low income families through the
generation of permanent and part-time employment.



- 11 -
Environmental Aspects
3.07     The Environmental Impact Statements (RIHAs), prepared for each
individual scheme by consultants acceptable to the Bank, conclude that the
project would have only a limited effect on the environment, provided
certain environmental protection measures are implemented. These refer
basically to: (a) preparation of rational land clearing programs;
(b) monitoring of water tables and water quality; (c) monitoring of endemic
diseases and their vectors; and td) environmental education of the
beneficiary farmers. The preparation of rational land clearing programs
would include an inventory of vegetal species, delimitation of land
clearing areas, establishment of environmental reserves and escape
corridors for the fauna, selection of appropriate land clearing methods and
utilization of forestry resources such as timber, firewood or the
production of charcoal.
3.08     The six irrigation schemes would utilize only the amounts of water
already available during drought periods and no new storage facilities
would be required. Risks of land degradation due to waterlogging and
salinity would be minimum since the irrigation schemes have been planned
and designed using modern irrigation technology. Except for about 550 ha
in Formoso H Irrigation Scheme, all project lands would be irrigated by
sprinkler and localized irrigation methods, which use water most
efficiently. A proper drainage network, well adapted to the natural
drainage system, has also been designed, as well as a system to monitor the
water table variations and water quality during the life of the project.
Also the selected irrigation methods would allow for the adoption of water
and environmental quality control practices, including better fertilizer
application.
3.09     The project would also address issues related to health and
environmental education. The selection of potential farmers would include
a medical check-up for the candidates and their families, including
detection of endemic diseases. Furthermore, the project would support
SUCAH (Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns) campaigns against water
borne diseases and vector monitoring programs. Except for the surface
irrigated area in Formoso and the Acarau and Russas schemes, the remaining
project area (681 of total) would be supplied through pressurized pipes
which would reduce the number of habitats suitable for water borne disease
organisms and their vectors. Supported by the project, SUCAM would carry
out a campaign against water borne diseases in the project areas. Finally,
the agricultural extension service would carry out an environmental
education program for project beneficiaries (para. 3.21).
Resettlement of the Affected Population
3.10     The construction of the irrigation works would affect about 980
small rural families, including tenants, sharecroppers and rural workers.
These families are currently living within the borders of the Acarau (about
140 families), Tabuleiros de Russas (about 430 families), Tabuleiros
Litoraneos (about 155 families), Guadalupe (about 45 families), and the
Barreiras (about 210 families) irrigation schemes. CODEVASP, DNOCS and
DNOS have prepared resettlement plans approved by the Bank and the affected
populations. The resettlement program includes the provision of irrigated
family plots (in accordance with the regulations of the National Irrigation



- 12 -
Law) close to their present homes within the irrigated perimeters. The 980
families (about 80Z of the affected population) would be resettled on 2 to
4 ha plots. An additional 190 families, who are more advanced
technologically, are likely to qualify to receive 8 ha plots within the
irrigated areas of the project. Another 45 farmers, most of whom are
currently retired, would be resettled in nearby urban areas. Resettlement
plans involve a series of routine preparatory steps for each community
includings (a) a cmuunmication campaign; (b) an inventory of livestock to
be transferred; (c) ratification of resettlement agreements by each family;
and (d) arrangements for actual transfer of families and their belongings.
During negotiations, CODEVASF and the Federal Government provided
assurances that the resettlement plans would be implemented by CODEVASF,
DNOCS and DNOS in accordance with the terms defined in the resettlement
plan approved by the Bank.
B. Project Description
3.11     The project would consist of:  (a) construction of six new
irrigation schemes covering a net area of about 51,000 ha; (b) assistance
for the initial operation of six private irrigation districts whvch would
be responsible for providing farmers with agriculture extension, training
and marketing services, operation and maintenance of irrigation and
drainage networks, environmental protection measures and project
administration; and (c) provision of technical assistance to PRONI and
DNOCS, and consultant services for construction supervision of the
irrigation schemes. Under (a), the project would finance the construction
of off-farm irrigation and drainage works, electrical and road networks,
and on-farm irrigation equipment for small holders (medium and large
farmers would develop their own on-farm systems). Under (b), the project
would finance, on a declining basis, following the completion of off-farm
irrigation works, up to three years of the operating costs of each
irrigation scheme, including the overall management of the irrigation
district, the agricultural extension and marketing services for the
farmers, as well as the operation and maintenance of the irrigation and
drainage works and services and equipment for environmental protection
measures   Under (c), the project would finance international technical
assistance to PRONI and DNOCS, operating costs for the development of a
monitoring information system, and the costs of the consultant services
required for construction supervision of the irrigation schemes, and
preparation of detailed engineering designs for the Pontal irrigation
scheme.
Construction of Six New Irrigation Schemes (84Z of baseline costs)
3.12     Formoso H Irrigation Scheme (4,875 ha).  The subproject would be
located in the State of Bahia and would be implemented by CODEVASF. Water
would be diverted and pumped (6.05 ms/sec) from the Corrente River into two
lined main canals of different elevations (18 m and 28.5 m, respectively).
The lower one would deliver water to about 545 ha of heavy soils for
gravity irrigation and 315 ha of light to medium textured soils for
sprinkler and/or localized irrigation. The upper canal would directly
supply water to 585 ha for sprinkler and localized irrigation and to a
second pumping station (Q - 3.7 m3/sec) to lift water 14 m into a third
main canal. This canal would supply 14 pressurized pumps, each serving one
hydraulic sector of about 250 ha. The entire system would be fully



- 13 -
automated. Energy would be supplied by the Electric Company of Bahia,
COELBA, from the existing substation at the neighboring Formoso 'Al
project, financed by the Bank under Loan 2719-BR. The area would be
settled In 6 to 50 ha farms, and farmers would receive pressurized and
metered water.
3.13     Barreiras Irrigation Scheme (8,725 ha).  The subproject would be
located in the State of Bahia and implemented by CODEVASF. The scheme
would irrigate three separate sub-areas: Barreiras Norte (3,330 ha),
Riacho Grande (1,975 ha) and Nupeba (3,420 ha). The areas would be settled
in 2 to 4 ha, 7.5 ha, 15 ha, 22.5 ha and 30 to 80 ha farm. Medium-
textured soils are dominant in the subproject area. Water for the three
sub-areas would be pumped from the Rio Grande River. Six pumping stations
would lift water at 6.25 slssec between 72 m and 91 a during peak water
demand periods. Pour booster stations would lift the water an additional
15 to 21 m to allow irrigation of the higher lying areas. Water would be
discharged into six regulating reservoirs for subsequent delivery to a
buried pipeline network leading to the individual holdings. Farmers would
receive pressurized and metered water. The project would finance the
construction of a 35 transmission line (34.5 KV) from Angical to Sao Jose
do Rio Grande, for provision of energy to the main pumping stations.
3.14     Acarad Irrigation Scheme (8,210 ha).  The subproject would be
located in the State of Ceart and implemented by DNOCS. The project would
pump water from the Acara6 River to irrigate 2 to 4 ha, 8 ha, 16 ha and 80
ha production units using sprinkler and drip irrigation methods. Project
soils are deep but light textured (sandy loams or sandy clay loams).
Headworks would comprise a diversion dam across the Acarat River and a main
pumping station. Civil works would be built to serve future expansion,
(4,500 ha) but equipment would be limited to meet the demands of the
proposed first phase development (Q - 10.5 ms/sec, H - 45 m). Two pressure
lines would discharge the water into a lined main conveyance canal from
where it would be distributed by a 50 km lined canal distribution network.
Each farm would have its own individually operated pressurization pump.
Energy for the project would be supplied from a 75 km transmission line (69
KW), Sobral-Acarad, to be built by CHESF in 1990.
3.15     Tabuleiros de Russas Irrigation Scheme (10,500 ha).  The
subproject would be located in the State of Cear& and implemented by DNOCS.
Water would be pumped from the Banabuiu River to irrigate small holdings (2
to 4 ha and 8 ha) medium-size farms (16 to 20 ha) and large farms (above 24
ha). Dominant soils are deep sandy loams. Off-farm irrigation works would
include as (a) main pumping station (Q-13.3m3/sec; H-31m) on the Banabui
rivert (b) 800m pressure line; (c) 17 km main conveyance canal
(Q-30m01sec); and (d) canal and pipe distribution network. The main canal
has been sized to meet the needs of the proposed project and future
expansions (15,000 ha). The distribution network would comprise 13.4 km of
main canal (Q-13.3 m3/sec), a secondary pumping station (Q-Sm3lseg; H-Sm)
and a 72 km canal and 68 km low pressure pipe network. Each farmer would
have his own pressurization pump. The project would finance the
construction of a 10 km. transmission line (13.8 KV) and two electrical
substations (5 MVA in COELCE and 10 MVA in Morada Nova). Additionally,
another 17 km of 13.8 kv lines, financed by the project, would supply
energy to individual pumping stations.



- 14 -
3.16     Guadalupe Irrigation Scheme (11,870 ha).  The subproject would be
located in the State of Piaul and built by DNOS, but coordination and
overall management responsibility would be transferred at the beginning of
the production phase to DNOCS (para. 3.30). Project soils are mainly light
to medium textured red-yellow podzols. The area would be settled in 2 to 4
ha, 8 ha, 16 ha and 32 ha plots. At full development the irrigated area of
the entire Guadalupe *cheme would be about 14,870 ha, distributed in two
different areas denominated Block 1 (7,100 ha), and Block 3 (7,770 ha). By
the end of 1990, DNOS will complete using its own resources the
construction of about 3,000 ha under Block 1. The project would finance
the construction of works required to complete Block 1 (4,100 ha), and the
full development of Block 3. Water would be pumped from the Boa Esperanga
Reservoir by two separate pumping stations. Block 1 would benefit from
headworks under construction by DNOS. The project would only provide
pumping equipment for the main pumping station at the Boa Esperanca
Reservoir to meet the needs of 4,000 ha (Q - 4.8 ms/sec, a - 34m) and a
1,100 a pressure line. The project would also include a second pumping
station (Q - 4.2 ms/sec, B - 42 m) to pump water from the first phase main
canal into a second level distribution canal network, to feed
pressurization pumps (each serving between 540 and 1,200 ha) and a
pressurized pipe network. Pressurized and metered water would be delivered
to individual lots. Block 3 would have its own pumping station at the Boa
Esperanga Reservoir (Q - 10.26 ms/sec, H - 85 m). Three 3,300 m long
pressure pipes would discharge water into a 19 km lined canal system.
Sixteen pressurization pumps along the latter (each serving b,tween 340 and
1,360 ha) would pressurize the pipe distribution network and deliver
pressuriAed and metered water at the farm gate of each lot. Energy for the
project would be provided by the Boa Esoeranca hydropower plant via a 12 km
transmission line (34.5 V), to be financed by the project, to the
project's primary substation.
3.17     Tabuieiros Litoraneos Irrigation Scheme (7,510 be).  The
subproject would be located in the State of Piaui, built by DNOS and
transferred to DNOCS at the beginning of the agricultural production phase.
The scheme would pump water from the Parnaiba River for the irrigation of
about 8,300 ha, including about 7,510 ha under the proposed project. Most
of the project soils have a texture ranging from sands to loamy sands.
Headworks comprise an inlet canal and a main pumping station (Q - 13.1
ms/sec, H - 50 m). Two 1,560 m long pressure lines would discharge water
into a regulating reservoir that would feed intc a main conveyance canal.
Most of those works have already been constructed by DNOS so the project
would only provide the equipment and civil works to complete the pumping
units and a 1,560 m long pressure line. The main conveyance canal would
deliver 9.5 ms/sec to the proposed project distribution network. The
latter would comprise 37.5 km of lined canals, 16 pressurization pumps (one
for about 450 ha) and a pipe distribution network. Farms would receive
pressurized and metered water at the farm gate. Small farms (plots of 8
ha) would use sprinkler irrigation; medium and large farms (plots of 16 ha
and 32 ha, respectively) would use sprinkler and localized irrigation
methods.   Energy would be supplied by the Electric Company of Piaui,
CEPISA, through a 150 km transmission line (69 KV) from Piripiri to
Parnaiba, to be built by CHESF in agreement with the Minister of Enerrv and
Mines, in 1990.



- 15 -
Initial Operation of the Private Irrigation Districts (72 of baseline costs)
3.18     Management of the Irrigation Districts.  The irrigation districts
would be responsible for the overall managee nt of the irvigation schemes.
They would also be responsible for the provision of operation and
maintenamce. agriculture extension and marketing services (charging its
ccsta directly to the beneficiaries - Annex V) and the implementation of the
environmental protection measures. The irrigation districts would be
private associations under Brazilian 1lw, and their members would be the
project beneficiaries (patas 3.32 to 3.36). The project would finance the
construction of administration facilitles (offices, garages and workshops),
and on the declining basis (para. 3.11) the costs of personnel required for
the planning, budgeting, and coordination activities. At negotiations.
CODEVASY and the Federal Goveronent provided assurances that CODEVASF and
DNOCS, in each of their respective irrigation schemes, would complete
beneficiary selection by December 31, 1991, or by a later date to be agreed
to by the Bank. and immediately thereafter, organize an irrigation district
in each scheme, and maintain the district vith an organization - includizg a
General Manager and competent staff in adequate numbers - structure and
functions, all acceptable to the Bank.
3.19     Agricultural Extension and Marketing Services.  The objective of
the agricultural extension and technical assistance to farmers would be to
familiarize project small farmers with the most appropriate technological
packages available for the irrigation of crops to be grown under the project
(including relevant agricultural and water management practices). The
irrigation districts, through the contracting of private firms, would advise
small farmers on: (a) irrigation and water management practices;
(b) appropriate use of fertilizers and control of pH levels through liming;
(c) land preparation, seeding and planting; (d) effective weed control and
plantiprotection measures and efficient use of agrochemicals; (e) improved
harvesting and storage methods; (f) economics of crop production and farm
management for maximum profitability; and (g) alternative methods for
marketing of produce and provision af inputs. The irrigation districts
would also provide advisory services to the other project beneficiaries,
i.e., agricultural technicians and large farmers, on an ad hoc basis. The
project would finance extension services for small farmers for two years
following settlement. The districts would also assist their members to
market or export their products through monitoring of marketing conditions,
looking for outlets, negotiating contracts, grouping merchandise and
arranging for pickup, transportation and delivery. CODEVASF and the Federal
Government provided assurances during negotiations that CODEVASP and DNOCS
would cause each irrigation district to contract no later than three months
after its establishment (para. 3.18) unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank,
agricultural extension and marketing services to a specialized entity with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. The costs of such
servLces would be financed by the project on a declining basis.
3.20     Operation and Maintenance.  Project design includes advanced
technologies to achieve maximum flexibility in water distribution required
for optimal production of high value diversified crops. Water would be
delivered on demand to each farm. Part of the districts' work would include
measuring water consumption at the farm level and within the irrigation
scheme, and operating and maintaining canals and related hydraulic



- 16 -
structures. The main pumping stations and the main canals and pressure
lines would continue to be operated and maintained by the Executing
Agencies. CODEVASF and the Federal Government provided assurances during
negotiations that CODEVASF and DNOCS would cause each irrigation district to
sub-contract, no later than three month* after its establishment (para.
3.18) unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank, the provision of operation and
maintenance services for irrigation works to a specialized entity with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The related costs
would be financed by the project on a declining basis during the first three
years of project implementation.
3.21     Environmental Protection Measures.  The project would provide for
the installation of piezomters and observation wells for the monitoring of
the water table and water quality during the life of the project (para.
3.08). Also the project would support SUCAM campaigns against water borne
diseases and vector monitoring programs (para 3.09), and finance equipment
and materials for the agricultural extension services to carry out an
environmental education program for project beneficiaries (para 3.09).
During negotiations, CODEVASF and the Federal Government provided assurances
that CODEVASF and DNOCS would sign satisfactory agreements with SUCAM, no
later than December 31, 1991, to carry out campaigns against water-borne
diseases.
Technical Assistance and Consultant Services (9Z of baseline costs)
3.22     The technical assistance component, to be financed by the project
(para. 3.12), has been designed to complement the technical assistance
program financed out of the proceeds of the Northeast Irrigation Engineering
Project (Loan 2680-BR). Its objectives are the followings (a) to prepare
and assist SEI to take over many of the activities defined in the Irrigation
Subsector Review (para. 2.11), so that when full-time technical assistance
ends, SEI personnel will be qualified to implement the National Irrigation
Program; (b) to develop and implement a management information system to
monitor activities during the planning, construction and operating stages of
the project (para. 3.38); and (c) to develop DNOCS' capability to oversee
the agricultural development phase of the subprojects. The project would
also finance the consultant services required for the preparation of
construction plans and the supervision of construction of the irrigation
schemes, and the preparation of engineering designs and other detailed
studies for the Pontal Irrigation Scheme. SEPRONI has already prepared a
preliminary design of the technical assistance program and a draft of a
second-stage USBR Technical Assistance Project document. A condition of
loan effectiveness would be that SEPRONI signs an agreement satisfactory to
the Bank for the provision of technical assistance to the National
Irrigation Program, and prepares a proposal acceptable to the Bank for the
provision of technical assistance to DNOCS. The Federal Government also
provided assurances during negotiations that the DNOCS technical assistance
agreement would be entered into no later than May 30, 1990.
ComplementarY Activities to the Proiect
3.23     Agricultural Credit.  Beneficiaries would need medium-term
investment and seasonal credit. Medium-term credit would be required to buy
complementary agricultural equipment, and medium and large-scale farmers
would need credit to purchase on-farm irrigation equipment. Seasonal credit



- 17 -
would be required to buy agricultural inputs. All credit would be financed
by the Brazilian official credit system or by commercial banks.
'Implementation Schedule and Status of Project Preparation
3.24     Project implementation would begin in 1990 and would be completed
within five years. This schedule takes into account the Executing Agencies'
capacity to build infrastructure works and the time needed to carry out
initial fanrewr settlement and agricultural development activities. It
would require that the electric.l infrastructure necessary to provide energy
to the Irrigation schemes  ould be installed before completion of the major
irrigation infrastructure. To this effect, CCDEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS have
signed agreements, satisfactory to the Sank, with COELSL, COELCE, and
CEPISA, respectively, for the provision of the energy required by the
irrigation schemes. The proposed implementation schedule is presented in
Chart 1, Annex VIII.
3.25     International joint ventures of consulting firms, eupervised by the
USBR, have prepared feasibility studies and are currently working on the
preparation of detailed engineering designs for the six irrigation schemes.
The basic bidding documents for ICB for construction of civil works and
acquisition of equipment were reviewed by the Bank during negotiations.
3.26     The Federal Government has already acquired the lands of the
Formoso H, the Russas, and the Tabuleiros Litoraneos irrigation schemes,
and issued the expropriation decree for the Guadalupe irrigation scheme.
The irrigable land of the Barreiras Norte irrigation scheme would be
acquired directly by CODEVASF through negotiations, currently underway,
with the owners. A condition of effectiveness would be that CODEVAS?,
DNOCS and DNOS would have acquired all remaining project irrigable lands.
C. Prolect Organization
Federal Level
3.27     The project's institutional development objectives focus on long-
term institutional improvements as well as on project management and
implementation. In relation to the long-term improvements, the project
would assist in developing a capability in SEPRONI to establish national
policies and supervise the implementation of the National Irrigation
Program. In terms of project implementation, the proposal is based on a
design that holds central management (SEPRONI) accountable for results,
vhile giving the federal executing agencies (CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS)
autonomy to implement the project.
3.28     The long-term institutional improvements under the project are
consistent with the Subsector Review recommendations and include: the
maintenance of a Technical Office in SEPRONI; the creation of a directorate
for agricultural operations in DNOCS; and the preparation of a staff
development and training program for DNOCS. In SEPRONI, a solid Technical
Office (Zscritorio), utilizing existing PRONI staff, would be maintained
whose functions would includes (a) updating of sectoral strategies,
policies and programs and preparation of general studies related to
irrigation development; (b) planning and monitoring of program
implementation and performance studies, financial planning, and periodic



- 18 -
performance review of institutions active in the subsector; and
(c) preparation of a Technical Manual and Standards for use by the
irrigation agencies (CODEVASF, DNOCS, DNOS and state irrigation
organisations). For the first two activities, SEPRONI professional staff
would be assisted by U.S.B.R. short-term consultants (para. 3.22) for
eighteen months in the areas of water resources planning, irrigation
engineering and technologies, data processing, project analysis, and
private irrigation districts organization. The Directorate of Agricultural
Operations in DNOCS would oversee the management of agricultural
development in irrigated areas in accordance with the strategy
(decentralization to beneficiaries and maximum private sector
participation) recommended in the Subsector Review. The DNOCS staff
development and training program would aim to support the transition, also
recomended in the Review, away from socially-oriented settlement projects
tow rds production-oriented private sector irrigation development. During
negotiations, the Federal Goverument provided assurances that: (a) SEPRONI
would maintain the Technical Office with structure, functions and staffing
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) HINAGRI would submit for final consideration
to the appropriate branches of tile Government a proposal for the creation
in DNOCS of a Directorate for Agriculture Operations no later than October
31, 1990, and would maintain the existing Special Group for Hydro-
agricultural Operations until the Directorate is created; and (c) DNOCS
would prepare a staff development and training program satisfactory to the
Bank, no later than June 30, 1990.
3.29     A special Project Coordinating Unit has been created within
SEPRONI, with structure, functions and staffing, including the appointment
of a project coordinator, all satisfactory to the Bank, to provide general
coordination for project implementation. The Unit would: (a) assist the
executing agencies in multiyear and annual planning for the project and
ensure consistency with sector policies and guidelines; (b) provide
technical implementation assistance to the executing agencies;
Cc) supervise implementation of the irrigation program; (d) organize a
unified project monitoring system and impact evaluation activities; and
(e) advise the Secretary regarding annual policy and funding decisions with
respect to the project. The Unit consists of a Coordinator, three
professional staff plus administrative support staff. In addition, a
Management Committee consisting of the Special Secretary for Irrigation and
the heads of the three Executing Agencies has been established. This
Committee would meet periodically to evaluate the execution of the six
irrigation schemes, and to make decisions on issues presented to them by
the Project Coordinating Unit. During negotiations, the Federal Government
provided assurances that the Coordination Unit would be satisfactorily
maintained throughout the project implementation period.
3.30     In accordance with the subsector review recommendations (para.
2.11), during the construction phase, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS would assume
overall responsibility for execution of the irrigation and drainage works.
CODEVASF would be in charge of the Bahia State irrigation schemes (Formoso
H, and Barreiras Norte), DNOCS of the Ceara irrigation schemes (Acarall, and
Tabuleiros de Russas), and DNOS of the Piaui irrigation schemes (Guadalupe,
and Tabuleiros Litoraneos) where it has already began construction. Later,
during the agricultural production phase, only CODEVASF and DNOCS would be
involved in supporting the irrigation districts. CODEVASP would work on
the irrigation districts located within the Sao Francisco River Basin



- 19 -
(Formoso "HO, and Barreiras Norte), and DNOCS, on the districts located
elsewhere in the seme-arid region (Acarat, Tabuleiros de Russas, Guadalupe
and Tabuleiror Litoraneos). Project Management Units would be established
in each of the Executing Agencies, reporting directly to the heads of the
Agencies. These Units would plan, coordinate and monitor activities
related ta farmer selection and settlement, construction and the initial
period of project operation. Each Management Unit would maintain a Field
Unit in each of the irrigation sch eme , responsible for on-site project
execution. It would also be responsible for setting In motion each
irrigation district with a view towards making the district a private
autonomous entity wholly responsible for the management of the irrigation
scheme (paras. 3.32 to 3.36). During n-gotiations, the Federal Government
provided assurances that: (a) it would enter into a satisfactory
Implementation Agreement vith the participating agencies setting forth
respective responsibilities, and that the Implementation Agreement would
not be changed vithout the Bank's approvalg and (b) on completion of
construction by DNOS of the Guadalupe and Tabuleiros Litoraneos irrigation
schemes, it would cause DNOS to transfer to DNOCS, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank, full responsibility for overall management of both irrigation
schemes. Signature of the Implementation Agreement would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
3.31     A number of measures to strengthen the Executing Agencies to
implement the project have already been introduced. CODEVASP, DNOCS and
DNOS have created their Pro'ect Management Units. Qualified staff as
chiefs of the Coordination Units have also been appointed by the Executing
Agencies. During negotiations, CODEVASF and the Federal Government
provided assurances that CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS would employ, at all
times during the implementation of the project, chiefs of the Management
Units and residents to head the Field Units, with qualifications.
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Irrigation Districts Organization
3.32     The irrigation districts would be responsible for the overall
management of the irrigation schemes, including operation and maintenance
of the project works and the provision of support services to its members.
The Irrigation Districts would be private associations under Brazilian Law
and their members would be project beneficiaries. The districts would
become operational as soon as possible after farmer selection and
settlement, in order to facilitate the early participation of the projects'
beneficiaries. Operational costs would be financed by the project on a
declining basis for up to three years (paras. 3.11 and 3.18) and charged to
the farmers. Afterwards, operation and maintenance, and farmers services
would be fully taken over by the districts by about 1997. Because the
districts would be expected to play major roles in project execution, but
at the same time remain small institutions, their own staff would be
limited, and specialized firms would be recruited to provide services for
farmers and to operate and maintain the subprojects' irrigation works,
except for the main pumping plants and canals, which would be operated and
maintained by the Executing Agencies. The districts' Governing Boards
would have five to seven members: three to four representatives of small
and medium beneficiaries (qualified irrigators and agricultural
technicians), one to two representatives of the large farmers and one
representative of the Rural Workers Union. The Executing Agencies would
not vote, but would have veto power over the decisions of the Boards for a



- 20 -
period of five years. The districto would be composed of three divisions:
Production; Operation and Maintenance; and Administration and Finances.
The District Boards would appoint General Managers who would hire the heads
of the three divisions, with the approval of the Boards. The remaining
staff would be hired jointly by the General Managers and the heads of the
divisions.
3.33     The Agricultural Production Division of each district would
program and carry out activities related to agricultural extension and
technical assistance to farmers and assist members in marketing or
exporting their products (para. 3.19). It would monitor marketing
conditions, look for outlets, negotiate contracts, group merchandise and
arrange for pickup, transportation and delivery. Each district would
subcontract these support services for the farmers, including technical
assistance and marketing activities, with specialized consulting entities
no later than three months after its establishment (para. 3.19).
3.34     The Operation and Maintenance Divisinn would carry out activities
related to: (a) water delivery to each farm; (b) water measurement at farm
level within the irrigation scheme; and tc) operation and maintenance of
the irrigation works. Each district would subcontract the operation and
maintenance services no later than three months after its establishment
(3.20).
3.35     The Administration and Finance Division of the district would keep
the accounts of the districts: revenues incurred mainly from sales of
services to members (supply of inputs, soil preparation, water charges) and
expenses including operating expenses, repayment of the operation and
maintenance expenses incurred by the executing agencies, reposition of
equipment, and capital costs.
3.36     Potential local candidates for the positions of General Managers
of the districts have already been identified by the Executing Agencies.
The selected ones would be trained in the USBR Water Districts for a six-
month period during 1990. Related costs for training would be financed by
the Northeast Irrigation Engineering Project (Loan 2680-BR) (para 3.18).
Accounts and Auditing
3.37     Each of the participating agencies would maintain a separate
account of its project expenditures to be audited annually by public or
private auditors, acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the audit report would
be provided to the Bank within six months following the close of the
project's fiscal year. The audit report would convey the auditor's opinion
on the adequacy of procedures used for the preparation and verification of
statements of expenditures (SOEs) and their accuracy, eligibility for
financing in accordance with compliance with legal agreements, and the
standard of record-keeping and Internal controls. The Special Account
(para 3.50) would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank. During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances on
these matters.



- 21 -
Monitoring
3 38     An information and monitoring system organized and managed by
SIPROMI would be financed by the project to improve the management of the
implemoetation and operation and maintenance of the six project irrigation
scheme.  The system would be used for decision-making and is intended to
provide the timely reports required at the different levels of the project
organization. Only data needed, in a readily usable form, would be
produced by the system. The information would also be used for Internal
operation and matters related to interaction anong cooperating agencies,
and to comp&re actual accompliehments with goals and objectives. SIPRONI's
*etablishment of the information and monitoring system, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition for loan effectivenes. The Federal Government
provided assurances during negotiations that the SSIONI would submit semi-
annual and annual progress reports to the Bank no later than three monthe
after the close of each respective  semester or fiscal year.
D. Project Costs and Financing
Costs
3.39     The total project cost, including taxes of about US$441, has been
estimated at US$465.0 M over the five-year implementation period of the
project. Because the detailed engineering is substantially completed,
(para. 3.25) 5Z to 10? physical contingencies, depending on the scheme, for
civil works and goods has been added to the base costs. Price
contingencies of 7.22 in 1990, and 4.4Z onward have been added to the base
costs plus physical contingencies. It is assumed that periodic local
currency devaluations would compensate for any differences between the
projected US dollar and local inflation rates. Recent experience indicates
that this assumption may not be valid in some cases; increases in local
currency costs for civil construction over the last year have exceeded the
rate of devaluation of the local currency. It is, however, uncertain as to
whether and to what extent this trend would continue in the future.
Therefore, project costs would be carefully monitored throughout the
project implementation period.  In the event that this trend continues, it
would become necessary for the Government to finance these cost overruns,
and the Bank, if needed, would reduce its disbursement percentages to
maintain participation through project completion. Project costs and
annual phasing of investments are summarized in the Loan and Project
Sunmary and in Annex VII.
Financing Plan
3.40     The proposed Bank loan of US$210 X equivalent would finance 50.OO
of total estimated costs net of taxes or 45? of total project costs. The
loan would finunce 10OZ of the direct and indirect foreign ezchange costs
and about US$86.5 M of local costs. The loan would be for 15 years,
including a five-year grace period, and would bear interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. The Bank loan would be made to the Federative
Republic of Brazil, which would carry the foreign exchange risk and provide
counterpart funds as necessary to complete the project. The loan closing
date would be June 30, 1995. Project funds would be provided by the
Federal Government to SEPRONI and the executing agencies on a grant basis.
Funds made available to state power companies, to finance the construction



- 22 -
of electric networks, vould be accounted for as an equity contribution in
the name of the executing agencies. To ensure that sufficient and timely
funds vould be available to support the project, the Federal Government
provided assurances at negotiations that: (a) it would make loan funds
available to CODEVASF under a satisfactory Subsidiary Agreement to be
signed between it and CODNVASF, and the Subsidiarr Agreement would not be
changed without the Bank's approval; (b) it would make loan funds available
to SEPRONI, DNOCS and DNOS under financial arrangement satisfactory to the
Bank, and these arrangeents vould not be changed without the Bank's
approval; (c) the Treasury would make available to MIMAGRI all funds for
expenditures to be financed by the Governe nt or from the loan, in
accordance with the timetable and within the time period set for in the
project implementation schedule of the annual plan (Plano de Aplica;lo,
agreed upon by the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury); (d) such
funds would be made available to each Executing Agency in accordance with
the amounts and timetable in the relevant Annual Operating Plans (POAs);
and (e) CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS would provide to SEPRONI their draft POAs
each year so that the SEPRONI can consolidate the P0*s and submit a
consolidated POA to the Bank, no later than June 30 of each year, for its
review and comments. Conditions of effectiveness would be that the
Subsidiary Agreement with CODEVASF and the financial arrangements with
SEPRONI, DNOCS and DNOS had been entered into and that the Government would
have allocated adequate funds from its proposed fiscal year 1990 budget to
implement the 1990 consolidated POA.
Procurement
3.41     Procurement arrangements are sumnarized in the table below:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element             ICB       LCB      OTHER       N/A       TOTAL
Civil Works                124.9      29.8                 8.5      163.2
(54.6)     (7.5)                        (62.1)
Goods and Equipment        189.7       6.6       0.6      41.7     238.6
(120.7)     (2.6)    (0.2)              (123.5)
Consultants and                                 45.2                 45.2
Other Services                               (24.4)               (24.4)
Operating Costs                                 18.0                 18.0
Total                    314.6      36.4     63.8       50.2     465.0
(175.3)    (10.1)   (24.6)              (210.0!
Notes Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts (including
contingencies) expected to be financed by the Bank.
3.42     Contracts for works above US$5.0 M and contracts for goods and
equipment above US$300,000 would be awarded through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). These contracts would include irrigation works;
I



- 23 -
hydro-electro-mechanical equipment; electrical equipment; on-farm
irrigation and agricultural equipment. Hydro-electro-mechanical equipment
would be supplied to the irrigation works contractors for installation.
Operation and maintenance equipment would also be grouped, whenever
possible, into contracts valued at US$300,000 or more and would be procured
through ICB. Procurement through ICB would represent about 78Z of total
procurement of goods and equipment under the project.
3.43     Contracts for works below US$5.0 M would be procured under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB). with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and
refer to: land clearing; initial soil improvement; and construction of
buildings. The aggregate value of these works is estimated at about
US$29.8M (CODEVASF, US$7.0 M; DNOCS, US$10.4 H; and DNOS, US$12.4 M).
Contracts for goods and equipment below US$300,000 would be procured under
local competitive bidding, with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; they
would consist of construction materials and miscellaneous equipment. The
aggregate value of the relevant contracts would not exceed US$6.6 M
(CODEVASF, US$1.9 M; DNOCS, US$2.3 M; and DNOS, US$2.4 M).
3.44     Consultant services would be employed following Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants' (August 1981) for the preparation of
construction designs and supervision of construction of the six public
irrigation schemes. The consultant contracts will provide for some 1,650
man-months of consultants's services, and the costs of survey and
construction quality control equipment, local transportation, local
technicians and other minor items. Expatriate personnel would include
senior level high caliber expertise in the fields of hydraulic design and
construction supervision.
3.45     The operation and maintenance of the six irrigation districts and
the provision of production support services to the farmers (including
agricultural extension, technical assistance and marketing services), would
also be provided by local and international consultants, and are estimated
to require about 400 man-months. Expatriate personnel input would include
senior level expertise in the fields of overall management of irrigation
districts and technical assistance to farmers.
3.46     Office and extension equipment, furniture and other similar goods,
estimated to cost less than US$40,000 per contract, would be awarded on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from at least three
suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; the
aggregate value of such contracts would not exceed US$0.6 M (CODEVASF,
US$0.2 H; DNOCS, US$0.2 M; and DNOS, US$0.2 H).
3.47     Civil works contracts over US$5.0 M and materials and equipment
contracts over US$300,000 would be subject to prior review of bidding
documents, bid evaluations, award proposals and final contracts. However,
the first LCB procurement for works and the first for goods for each
Executing Agency (CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS), irrespective of the size of
the contracts, would be subject to prior review by the Bank of bid
documents, bid evfaluations, award proposals and final contracts. In total,
Bank prior review would cover about 82.0S of the value of contracts
financed under the project. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post award review through the SOEs. Vehicles and computers are reserved
procurement itemst they would not be financed by the proposed loan, their



- 24 -
estimated cost has been excluded from total project costs, and the amount
of the Bank loan has been reduced accordingly. The Federal Government and
CODEVASF provided assurances at negotiations that the above procurement
arrangemnts would be followed by CODEVAS?, DNOCS and DNOS.
Disbursemnts
3.48     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against three
categories, as indicated below:
Percentages
Allocation                     of Total
of Loan Amount                 Expenditures
Category           (US$ Million Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                     58.0                   1002 of foreign
and 25S of local
expenditures
(2)   Goods and Equipment            115.0                   OOS of foreign
and 40S of local
expenditures
(3)   Consultants Services and
Technical Assistance          22.0                   1OOZ of foreign
and 30S of local
expenditures
(4)   Unallocated                     15.0
3.49     A five and one-half-year disbursement period is based on the works
implementation schedules, and the period needed by most of the small
farmers to initiate production. The proposed disbursement period is a
little shorter than the disbursement period for the two first Bank loans to
CODEVASF which were disbursed in eight and nine years (para. 2.14).
However, the proposed disbursement period is realistic, since the three
executing agencies have acquired considerable experience in construction,
the bidding documents for major works and equipment were ready and reviewed
at negotiations, and the Bank loan would not be disbursed against recurrent
expenditures. Consequently, the preparation status, implementation
schedule, and disbursement profile differ markedly from the previous
projects.
3.50     To reduce Government prefinancing requirements, two special
accounts would be established. A Cruzado Expenditure Special Account
(CESA) would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of
US$5.5 M. Withdrawals from CESA would be supported by the required
documentation of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Except for the first
CODEVASY, DNOCS and DNOS LCB contracts for goods and works, (para. 3.47),
the Bank would disburse about US$9.5 M against Statements of Expenditures
for contracts for works not exceeding US$5.0 M and for equipment contracts



- 25 -
not exceeding US$300,000, and operating costs. SOEs would be prepared by
CODEVASF, DIOCS and DNOS in respect of their respective component of the
project. The Coordinating Unit would be kept informed of these
transactions by receiving copies of the disbursement requests sent by the
executing agencies to the Central Bank. To facilitate disbursements in
foreign currency, a Foreign Currency Special Account (FESA) would also be
established in a comercial bank abroad, with an initial deposit of US$0.25
million. Withdrawals from ESA would be supported by the required
docunentation prepared by CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS in respect of their
respective components of the project. The Coordinating Unit would be kept
informed. A condition of disbursement would be for goods required under
the project, that their importation has not been prohibited by the
Government.
Cost Recovery
3.51     In accordance with the Federal Irrigation Law of 1979, and its
regulations (Decree 89496), farmers who benefit from irrigation schemes are
expected to pay water charges. These include a volumetric water charge to
fully recover operation and maintenance costs, and a per hectare water
charge to recover, the public investments in off-farm irrigation
infrastructure. In addition, the Government is entitled to recover from
small farmers public investments in land acquisition and on-farm irrigation
equipment in real terms over a 25-year period with a 61 annual interest
rate.
3.52     According to the financial analysis of the farm models (Annex IV)
the small. medium and large size farmers would be able to pay water
charges, in addition to paying for acquisition of land and improvement made
on their farms, including interest charges, over a repayment period of 25
years. Under the project, the newly created irrigation districts would
collect water charges and use these resources to pay CODEVASF and DNOCS for
operation and maintenance of the main irrigation works and to finance their
own services. SEPRONI is moving towards improving the enforcement of
existing legal punitive measures, (including making the beneficiaries' land
tenure right contingent on the payment of water charges), to increase the
effectiveness of water charges collection by the irrigation districts.
CODEVASF and DNOCS have issued satisfactory legal regulations to ensure
that the water charges to be applied to all the beneficiaries of the
project and covering investment, operation and maintenance costs, would be
collected by the irrigation districts, and that these water charges would
be applied beginning with the first year of cultivation increasing over a
period of four years for each beneficiary, before levelling off in the
fifth year. The Government also provided assurances at negotiations thatt
(a) water charges would be set at levels sufficient to fully recover
operation and maintenance costs, and to recover public investments in off-
farm infrastructure in real terms, plus a 31 rate of annual interest; and
(b) water charges would be adjusted progressively, beginning with the first
year of cultivation by each Project Beneficiary, according to a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank, and proposed annual water charges would be
reviewed with the Bank prior to making the adjustment.



- 26 -
B. Prolect Benefits
Agricultural Production
3.53     The total annual incremental production of the project would reach
at full development, from Year 10 onwards. approzimatelys 59,000 tons of
passion fruit, 46,800 tons of citrus, 55,000 tons of tomatoes, 58,000 tons
of banana, 51,000 tons of grapes, 48,000 tons of onions, in addition to
traditional crops such as 38,000 tons of beans, 62,800 tons of cotton, and
aller quantities of rice, maize and manioc.  The impact of the project on
agricultural production would result from Irrigating land that previously
sustained almost no economic activity.
Marketing
3.54     Most of the project's agricultural production would be marketed in
the Northeast region and the rest in other regions of the country. At full
development, however, it is estimated that 152 of the fruit and a small
amount of the cotton would be exported. Recent marketing studies, carried
out during project preparation, showed production deficits for the country
in the year 2000 for the following products: beans, rice, tomatoes, grapes,
mangoes, passion fruit, citrus, bananas, garlic, potatoes and peanuts. The
studies also showed that in the Northeast region the production deficits
for these products would be more severe and that seasonal supply deficits
would occur for onion and carrots. The annual incremental production of
beans and rice produced by the project would be marketed locally, mainly by
small private traders already active in the area. This would offset
persistent deficits in the States of Piaui, Ceara and Bahia in recent
years. Incremental cotton production in semi-processed and processed form
would be utilized by the local textile industry or exported. Since the
region is already a traditional cotton-growing area, marketing channels are
well-established, and processing and manufacturing capacity is adequate.
The annual incremental production of tomato, grapes, citrus and other
fruits would be sold to local traders and would be marketed in urban
centers located within a 1,200 km radius rrom the irrigation perimeters,
which includes major cities such as Teres.ta, Salvador and Fortaleza. Any
excess would be sold under group marketing contracts through existing
channels to major urban centers, including Brasilia, Belo Horizonte and Sao
Paulo, for local consumption or export. Marketing services for newly
created farmers' associations would be provided through the use of a
specialized consulting firm (para. 3.19).
Employment and Farm Income
3.55     Expanded agricultural activities would create, at full
developmnt, total employment equivalent annually to 29,000 man-years of
temporary or permanent jobs. This is a significant project impact
considering present high rates of unemployment in semi-arid areas of the
Northeast. Estimated financial rates of return for the seven farm models
related to small scale farmers, range from 332 to more than 702, while in
the case of the eight models related to medium and large farmers, the
estimated rates of return range from 231 to above 1002. In the financial
analysLi of the models, costs have been included for agricultural
equipment, on-farm production costs, on-farm irrigation equipment and
works, operation and maintenance of the irrigation perimeters, and cost



- 27 -
recovery for all government-financed off-farm irrigation infrastructure.
Annual per capita income for the small scale farmers would increase with
the project, from about one-third of the country's minimum wage, about
US$200, to over US$1,000-1,600, assuming an average family size of six
people.
F. Economic Analysis
Economic Rates of Return
3.56     The overall project's economic rate of return on productive
investments has been estimated, for the six subprojects, at about 162
(Annex X). Rates of return for individual subprojects are as follows:
Tabuleiro de Russas            18.5S
Acarau                         17.12
Formoso                        16.71
Guadalupe                      14.52
Barreiras                      14.22
Tabuleiro Litoraneo            14.21
Total Project                  16.01
3.57     Calculations of the economic rate of return considered an analysis
period of 30 years. The cost stream includes all capital and recurrent
costs. Taxes and other transfer payments, such as purchase of land, have
been excluded from the cost stream. A shadow exchange rate was estimated
and applied to all foreign exchange costs on both the cost and benefit
sides.
3.58     The benefit streams include only the net value of agricultural
production. Economic producer prices were derived for rice, cotton and
citrus taking into account transportation and processing costs as well as
future price trends as indicated by Bank forecasts. Market farmgate prices
were used for all other crops. Production costs were then deducted from
the gross value of production to obtain the net value of production.
Production costs include labor and other farm inputs. Labor, both family
and hired, was valued at a shadow rate ranging from 402 to 70S of the
market rate, depending on the employment alternatives and their estimated
opportunity costs in each subproject. Economic prices were derived for the
most frequently used fertilizers, while market prices were used for all
other inputs.
Sensitivity Tests
3.59     The economic rate of return appears moderately more sensitive to
reductions in the value of production than to increases in costs; when the
value of production decreases by 14S, or costs increase by 391, the ERR
becomes equal to the assumed opportunity cost of capital of 12S. The
sensitivity analysis of each individual project, however, shows that three
projects, Tabuleiros LitorAneos, Guadalupe and Barreiras, are very
sensitive to variations in the value of production; there, a decrease of
the value of production by about 8S generates an ERR of 12S. A 122
increase in the value of the shadow exchange rate marginally increases the
rate of return for all projects.



- 28 -
G. Proiect Risks
3.60     The risks associated with the project ares  (a) delays and
shortfalls in counterpart funding; (b) institutional inefficiency; and
(c) potential farmer reluctance to pay water charges for full recovery of
capital ant operation and maintenance costs. To minimize the risk of
inadequate counterpart funds, during negotiations agreements were reached
with the Federal Government on funding procedures and the amount of funds
which would be included in the fiscal budget for this project. To ensure
competent and efficient implementation, Project Management Units would be
established in each of the Executing Agencies, reporting directly to the
head of the agency; field units would be also established at each project
site. The project would also include considerable technical assistance to
help further develop federal agencies, implementation capabilities,
including DNOCS' capability to oversee and support the production-related
activities implemented by the irrigation districts. The local collection
of water charges by the irrigation districts and improved enforcement of
legal punitive measures to be set forth in the contracts to be signed with
the farmers, should lead to effective cost recovery.
IV. SUMMRY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOIMENDATIONS
4.01     Conditions for loan effectiveness would be thats
(a) SEPRONI vould sign an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
provision of technical assistance to the National Irrigation
Program and would prepare a proposal acceptable to the Bank for
the provision of technical assistance to DNOCS (para. 3.22);
(b) CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS would have acquired all remaining project
irrigable lands (para. 3.26);
tc)  The Federal Government and the participating agencies would enter
into an Implementation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.30);
(d) SEPRONI would establish a system satisfactory to the Bank, for
monitoring of project activities (para. 3.38);
(e) the Subsidiary Agreement between the Federal Government and
CODEVASF and the financial arrangements between the Federal
Government and SEPRONI, DNOCS and DNOS would have been entered
into (para 3.40); and
(f) the Government would have allocated adequate funds from its
proposed fiscal year 1990 budget to be made available to SEPRONI,
DNOCS, DNOS and CODEVAS? to implement the 1990 consolidated POA
(para. 3.40).
4.02     A condition of disbursement would be for goods required under the
project that their importation has not been prohibited by the Government
(para. 3.50).



- 29 -
4.03     At negotiations, the Federative Republic of Brazil provided
assurances that:
(a)  DNOCS would complete beneficiary selection in each of its
irrigation schemes, by December 31, 1991 or by a later date to be
agreed to by the Bank, and iediately thereafter, organize an
irrigation district in each scheme, and maintain it with an
organization, structure and functions - inicluding a General
Manager and competent staff in adequate numbers - all acceptable
to the Bank (para. 3.18);
(b)  DNOCS would cause each irrigation district to subcontract, no
later than three months after its establishment unless otherwise
agreed to by the Bank, the provision of extension and marketing
services to a specialized entity with satisfactory qualifications
and experience (para. 3.19)s
(c)  DNOCS would cause each irrigation district to subcontract, no
later than three months after its establishment unless otherwise
agreed to by the Bank, the operation and maintenance of irrigation
works to a specialized entity with satisfactory qualifications and
experience (para. 3.20);
td)  DNOCS would sign a satisfactory agreement with SUCAM, no later
than December 31, 1991, to carry out a campaign against water-
borne diseases in the project area (para. 3.21);    -
(e)  the DNOCS technical assistance agreement would be entered into no
later than May 30, 1990 (para. 3.22);
(f)  SEPRONI would maintain its Technical Office with structure,
functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.28);
(g)  DNOCS would maintain a Special Group for Hydro-agricultural
Operations until a formal Directorate of Agricultural Operations
is created (para. 3.28);
(h) MINAGRI would present for final consideration to the appropriate
branches of Government a proposal for the creation in DNOCS of a
Directorate of Agricultural Operations to oversee the management
of agricultural development in irrigated areas, no later than
October 31, 1990 (para. 3.28);
(i)  DNOCS would prepare a satisfactory staffing, training and
development plan by June 30, 1990 (para. 3.28);
(j)  A satisfactory Project Coordination Unit would be maintained
within SEPRONI throughout the project implementation period
(para. 3.29);
(k)  it would enter into a satisfactory Implementation Agreement with
SEPRONI, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS, and the Agreement would not be
changed without the Bank's approval (para. 3.30);



- 30 -
(1) on completion of construction by DNOS of the Guadalupe and the
Tabuleiros Litoraneos irrigation schemes, the Government would
cause DNOS to transfer to DNOCS, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, full responsibility for overall management of both
irrigation schemes (para. 3.30);
(a) (i) separate project accounts would be maintained by each
participating agency and audited annually according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors
would include verification of expenditures made under statements
of expenditures (SOEo); and (iii) audit reports would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 3.37);
(n) SEPROUI would submit to the Bank semi-annuial and annual progress
reports no later than three months after the close of each
respective semester or fiscal year (para. 3.38);
(o) (i) it would make loan funds available to CODEVASF under a
satisfactory Subsidiary Agreement to be signed between it and
CODEVASF, and the Subsidiary Agreement would not be changed
without the lank's approvals (1i) it would make loan funds
available to SEPRONI, DNOCS and DNOS under financial arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, and these arrangements would not be
changed without the Bank's approval (3 .40);
(p) (i) the Treasury would make available to MINAGRI all funds for the
project in accordance with the timetables and within the time
period set forth in the project implementation schedule of the
annual plan, and MINAGRI would make available such funds to each
Executing Agency in accordance with the amounts and timetables of
the Annual Operating Plans; and (ii) CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS
would provide to SEPRONI their draft POA each year, so that
SEPRONI can consolidated the POAs and submit a consolidate POA to
the Bank for its review and comments no later than June 30 of each
year (para. 3.40);
(q) procurement arrangements outlined in paras. 3.41-3.47 would be
followed;
(r) water charges would be set at levels sufficient to fully recover
operations and maintenance costs, and to recover public
investments in off-farm infrastructure in real terms, plus a 3Z
rate of annual interest (para. 3.52); and
(s) water charges would be adjusted progressively, beginning the first
year of cultivation by each project beneficiary, according to a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank and proposed annual charges
would be reviewed with the Bank prior to making the adjustment
(para. 3.52).
4.04     At negotiations, CODEVASF provided assurances thats
(a) it would complete beneficiary selection in each of its irrigation
schemes by December 31, 1991, or by a later date to be agreed to



- 31 -
by the Bank, and immediately tbereafter organize an irrigation
district in each scheme, and maintain it with an organization,
structure and functions - including a General Manager and
competent staff in adequate numbers - all acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.18);
(b) each irrigation district would subcontract no later than three
months after its establiubment, unless otherwise agreed to by the
Bank, the provision of extension and marketing services to a
specialized entity with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.19);
(c) each irrigation district would subcontract operation and
maintenance of irrigation works to a specialized entity, with
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, no later
than three months after its establishment unless otherwise agreed
to by the Bank (para. 3.20); and
(d) it would sign a satisfactory written agreement with STJCAM no later
than December 31, 1991, to carry out a campaign against water-
borne diseases in the project area (para. 3.21).
4.05     At negotiations CODEVASP and the Federal Government provided
assurances that:
(a) CODEVASF, DNOCS, and DNOS would implement the resettlement plans
in accordance with the terms defined in the resettlement plans
agreed with the Bank (para. 3.10);
(b) CODEVASF, DNOCS and DOS would employ, at all times during the
implementation of the project, chiefs of the Management Units and
residents to head the Field Units, with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.31); and
(c) CODEVASF. DNOCS, and DNOS would follow the procurement
arrangements described in paragraphs 3.41 to 3.47.
4.06     Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank Loan of US$210 M equivalent with a term of 15 years,
including a 5-year grace period.



- 32 -                   ANNX oI
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
NATIONAL IRUGATION PROGRAM
HoRASY IRRIGATfON I PROJECT
CODEVASP IRRIGATION SCIES
A.  FORMSO '1 IRIGATION SCIl (4.875 ha)
Location and hsical Raources
1.       The project is located in Western Bahia, about 25 km fron Bor Jesus
da Lapa on the right bank of the Corrente River and close to its confluence
with the Sio Francisco River. A paved federal road gives easy aceoss to the
area. BR-349 is the southern border of Formoso OH'. The distance by road
from Formoso to Brasilia is about 700 km and to Salvador 500 km.
2.       CODEVASF owns the Formoso 'No area, which is presently unoccupied
and has no infrastructure. The Lrea borders to the east on the Bank co-
financed Formoso  A* irrigation scheme (Loan 2719-B) and to the vest a
private cotton production development under,center pivot irrigation.
3.       Mean annual rainfall in the Formoso "H' area amounts to 837 mm. The
climate is characterized by prolonged dry periods and irregular rainfall
patterns during and in between years. About 822 of the precipitation falls
in a 5-month period between November and March. Mean monthly temperatures
are around 25.60 C and show only small variations throughout the year.
Maximum potential evapotranspiration estimated by the Hargreaves method
reaches 238 mu in September. Winds are normally mild with velocities below 2
m/sec. The project would draw its water from the Corrente River, a main
tributary of the Sao Francisco River, with an annual mean flow of 214 m3/s
and absolute minimum flow of 130 m3/sec recorded in 44 years of observation.
Water requirements for the project during peak demand periods would amount
to 6.05 m3lsec. Water from.the Corrente River is of good quality for
irrigation and has been classified as ClSl (U.S. Bureau of Salinity
Classification.)
4.       Formoso OH' has a slightly ondulating topography with slopes
varying between 0 and 22. A natural drain crosses the area in the SW-NE
direction and ensures rapid evacuation of surface run-off waters. The soils
are medium-textured latosols and podzols (772), sandy soils (122) and heavy
hydromorphic soils (112). Details on land suitability for irrigation are
described in Annex IV.
Water Demand
5.       Water demand was estimated based on' potential evapotranspiration
rates calculated by the Hargreaves method and from pan evaporation data
(Class A - Pan - USBR) using whichever value was higher and applying crop
coefficients as published in PAO handbook 24. Figures were adjusted for
effective rainfall and based on 752 probability precipitation. The weighted



l
33 -             ~~~ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
average peak water requirements of the project based on a 20-hour daily
operation amounts to 1.41 l/sec/ha at the main pumping station, assuming
irrigation efficiencies of 90Z for the conveyance system. 902 for the
distribution system. 551 for on-farm gravity irrigation. 702 for on-farm
sprinkler irrigation snd 852 for on-farm drip irrigation.
Off-Pam Irri&ation Infrastructure
6.       The project would irrigate a net area of about 4875 ha distributed
in 18 sectors and 638 farm plots varying from 6.0 to 50.0 ha. Water would be
pumped from the Corrente Rliver. The main pumping plant (EBI) at the most
downotream point of the project area would have 2 groups of pumps to lift
water to 2 main canals, CY and CPZ. at different slevations. CPI, the lower
canal, would deliver water to the low-lying gravity-irrigated heavy
hydromorphic soils near the river. A secondary canal system (CS1 through
CS6) would deliver water to individual 6 ha plots. CPI would also serve 10
large farms (4Oha-5Oha) on heavy soils snd on light soils. CP2. the upper
canal, would deliver water to (a) a secondary canal (CS7) that would supply
the remainder of the large 40ha to 50 ha farms and (b) a booster pumping
station (EB2). The latter would pump water to the CP3 main canal. The
conveyance systems also include four pressure pipelines and a 700 m siphon.
The CP3 canal would supply 14 secondary pressurization pumping plants, each
serving one hydraulic sector. Within the hydraulic sectors, pressurized
water would be delivered to individual farm turnouts (6ha to Sha net). Each
individual turnout would have a valve and measuring device. The pressurized
pipe system would also be equipped with  Bermad  type valves (one for 6
farms) to keep the pipelines full of water in case farm turn out were not
closed when pressurization pumps are turned off. The main pumping stations
(EBI and EB2) would have vertical pumps. Automatic control would be effected
by means of water levels in the canals at the terminuses of the pressure
lines, using a  Bival  type system. Pressurized pumping plants would have
horizontal pumps. Automation would be controlled by pressure sensors in the
downstream pipe systems leading to the hydraulic sectors. Canals would be
concrete-lined and their control gates motorized and monitored in a central
control facility. Automation of gates would be by a downstream control
system with water level sensors.
On-Farm Irrigation Works
7.       Areas with heavy hydromorphic soils would be gravity-irrigated
(plots of 6 ha for small holders and 40 ha for large farms). These are flat
lands which would require only a little land levelling. Private enterprises
and large farmers (45 to 50)) in light and medium soils would pump directly
from the conveyance and distribution canals and install center pivots,
conventional sprinkler or drip systems on their own account. Small holders
(6ha to 8ha) on light and medium textured soils would receive pressurized
water. They would irrigate by conventional sprinkler methods. A typical
layout would include a buried main line and two fly lines, both 2 aluminum
pipes, plus one spare line. Sprinklers would be spaced at 12 m x 18 m,
operate at a pressure of 2.25 atm and have a discharge of 1.56 m3/h.



- 34 -                   ANNZX I
Page 3 of 4
Complementary Physical Infrastructure
8.       A 5.5 km dike with a ma:imum height of 2.20 a would protect the
low-lying alluvial hydramorphic soLls from flooding. The dike has been
designed to protect against a 100 year flood. The area of hydromorphic soils
would be provLded with an interconnected system of open drains to evacuate
run-off water from rainfall and irrigation. The remaining area would be
served by natural drains with minor additions.
9.       The project would finance the construction of 140 km access roads.
All roads would be graveled. Energy would be supplied from the Formoo 'Al
substation presently under construction. Distribution within the project
area would be through three-phase primary lines. Three-phase tranwformers
would be installed to feed the pressurization pumping plants and service
centers. Offices, storage facilities, workshops and equipment necessary for
project operations and housing facilities for support staff would be
provided at the service centers.
S. *IAMIUAS IRURIGATION SCEMC (8.725 ha)
Location and Physical Resources
10.      The project is located in western Bahia, some 12 km to the north of
the city of Barreiras and along the Rio Grande. The federal road BR-020
crosses the project area. Road distance from Barreiras to Brasilia is 650 km
and to Salvador 850 km.
11.      The Barreiras project comprises three sub-project areas (Barreiras
Norte, Riacho Grande and Nupeba.) The town of So Jos6 do Rio Grande (5.000
inhabitants) is close to the project area and the village of Barra do Riacho
(400 inhabitants) lies within it.  Both have electricity for household                 !
consumption.  Only Sbo Josd do Rio Grande has a water supply system and                a
neither of them have sewage infrastructure.
12.      Mean annual rainfall in Barreiras amounts to 960 mm, 9OS of which
is concentrated in a 5-month period between November and March. The area
suffers from long dry periods and irregular rainfall patterns during and in
between years. Mean monthly temperatures are around 260 C and show only
small variations during the year. Maximum monthly potential evapotranspira-
tion reaches 199 mm in October. Winds are normally mild with velocities
below 2 alsec. The Rio Grande would be the water source for the Barreiras
Irrigation Scheme. The project would pump less than 10 m3Jsec during peak
demand periods, which compares with a mean monthly flow of the river of 110
m3/sec and an absolute minimum flow of 60 m3/sec recorded in 23 years of
observations. The water in the river is of good quality for irrigation
purposes and has been classified as Cl-Si (U.S. Bureau of Salinity
Classificacion). The Barreiras project has an ondulating topography with
slopes of up to 6Z. The area is well drained by natural waterways. Soils are
medium textured. About 852 have uniform physiographic characteristics and
are developed on sedimentary materials (red-yellow podzols) and the
remaining 152 are low land with alluvial soils. (See Annex IV for
information on land suitability for irrigation.)



- 35 -                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
Water Demand
13.      The irrigation network has been designed to supply 1/sec/ha at farm
level during the month of peak water demands   The above flow assumes a 20
hour operation of pumps and irrigation efficiencies of 751 for on farm
sprinkling and 971 for water distribution in a closed pipe network. The
designed system would be able to met 801 of total estimated vater
requirements during the month of peak demnd. Project benefits have been
adjusted accordingly in the economic analysis.
Off-rals IrriaatLon Infrastructure
14.      The project would irrigate a net area of 8,725 ha distributed in
three independent sub-projects: Barreiras Norte vith 3,330 ha, Riacho Grande
vith 1.975 ha and Nupeba with 3.420 ha. Water for the project would be
pumped from the Rio Grande by means of siz pumping stations. These six
plants together would have 23 vertical units with a lift of between 72 m and
91 m. An additional 4 booster stations, together representing 13 booster
pumps, would lift the water an additional 15 to 21 a and allow for
irrigation of the higher areas where pressure vould be otherwise too small.
Kle7en pressure lines would discharge the water into six regulating
reservoirs for subsequent delivery to buried pipelines leading to indLvidual
lots. All farmers would receive metered and pressurized water at their farm
gates.
On-Fam Irrivation Works
15       Qualified settlers would receive 7.5 ha farms, farmers with
technical agricultural background 15 ha and 22.5 ha units and private
enterprises would occupy 30 to 80ha farms. About 180 small holdings and
squatters would be deplaced by the project and settled on 2 ha and 4 ha
irrigated farms (Annex V). About 80Z of the area (6,972 ha) would be
occupied by settlers and medium sized farmers and 202 (1.753 ha) by private
enterprises. Each farm would have its own water meter and valve. The on-farm
equipment of a typical 7.5 ha small holder unit would comprise a buried PVC
mainline and two aluminum fly lines. Sprinklers would be spaced 12 m x 18 m,
operate at a pressure of 30 m and discharge between 0.76 m3/h and 1.13 m31h.
Medium sized farms (15 ha and 22.5 ha) and large holders would develop their
own on-farm system.
Conplnentary Physical Infrastructure
16.      The project would construct surface drains to intercept and
evacuate rainfall and irrigation runoff into natural waterways. Land
preparation would include land clearing and the application of soil
amefdmsnts. About 106 km of new roads would provide access to farms and
project structures. The required energy would be provided by a transmission
line (69 kv) under construction by CHESP, that will cross the project area.
The project would provide 13.8 kv lines and transformers to supply pumping
stations and service centers with electricity. The latter would have
offices, storage facilities, workshops and equipment necessary for project
operations and housing for support staff.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECT
DNOCS IRRIGATION SCHUS
A. ACARAU IRRGATION SCHMS (8.210 ha)
Location and Physical Pesources
1.        The Acarau project is located on the right bank of the Acarau
River in Northern Cear& and lies within the boundaries of the Acarau. Marco,
Santans and Mnrrinhos municipalities. Access ls through a single paved road
which ends in the city of Acarau and links the project area with the federal
roads BR-402 to Fortaleza (250 km) and BR-222 to Sobral (120 km). The
project area lacks basic infrastructure. Houses in the adjacent areas lack
water supply and sewage systems and have limited access to household
electricity.
2.        Mean annual rainfall amounts to about 878 mm. 90! of the
precipitation falls between January and May. The area suffers from prolonged
dry periods and irregular rainfall patterns within the year and between the
years. Mean monthly temperatures are around 280 C with small variations
throughout the year. October is the month of highest evaporation. Potential
evapotranspiration during this month reaches 202 mm. Wind velocities
measured during one year in the Acarau project area indicate significantly
lower levels than those recorded in the city of Acarau closer to the coast.
The average wind velocity in Acarau City is around 3 m/sec.
3.        The project would draw water from the Acarau River, regulated by
the following reservoirss Araras (891 x 106 m3), Edson Queiroz (248 x 106
m3), Ayres de Souza (104 x 106 i3), Forquilla (50 x 106 m3) and Acarau Mirim
(150 x 106  3). Deducting existing and planned water uses, the system would
have sufficient water to irrigate at least 9,000 ha and, depending on the
assumptions for water requirements and permissible shortages, possibly
15,000 ha. The proposed first phase development only contemplates the
developsnt of some 8,210 ha. The water of the Acarau system is of good
quality and is now being used for irrigation without adverse effects.
4.        The project area has a smooth to slightly ondulating topography
with slopes generally below 3X. Natural waterways provide good surface
drainage. Soils are deep but light textured with high inflltration rates
(120 mm/h) and low soil moisture storage capaclties (8cm/m).  Surface
textures are sandy loams and subsurface textures, sandy loams or sandy clay
lomas.



37 -                  ANNIS II
Page 2 of 4
Water Demand
!           5.        Water demand has been estimated based on potential
evapotranspiration rates calculated by the Hargreaves method and applying
lAO Handbook 24 crop coefficients. Figures were adjusted for effective
rainfall and based on a 752 probability precipitation. Irrigation
efficiencies have been assumed as follows: conveyance (902), distribution
system (902), sprinkler irrigation (642), and on-farm drip irrigation (9o0).
With these assumptions and based on a 20 hour daily operation, peak water
demand at the main pumping station would amount to 1.52 1/sec/ha for
sprinkler and 0.65 l/sec!ha for drip irrigated areas.
Off-Fam Irritation Inrastructvr
6.        leadworks for the project would comprise a diversion dam across
the Acarau River (maz. height 5.75m) for accumulation of water during non-
pumping hours and a main pumping station. Civil works of the pumping station
would be sized to allow for future expansions, but equipment limited to meet
the needs of the proposed project. The latter would include five equally
sized pumps to lift 10.5 m3/1sec of water 44.5 m. The pressure lines, about
1.6 km long, would discharge water into the main conveyance canal (CP) from
where it would be distributed into about 50 km canal distribution network.
Along the canals would be control structures and turnouts for each lot.
Automation would be achieved with downstream water level sensors.
On-Farm Irrigation Works
7.        The project comprises irrigation development for about 8,210 net
ha to be farmed in between 2 and 8 ha (settlers), 16 ha and 80 ha production
units with sprinkler and localized irrigation methods. Each lot would have
its own individual operated pressurization units. Large holders (private
enterprise) and medium sized farmers would develop their own on-farm
systems. Small holders (8 ha) would be provided with on-farm works and
sprinkler equipment. An 8 ha on-farm sprinkler system would include a small
on-farm reservoir (20 i3), an individual pressurization pumping station (10
to 15 CV), a fixed buried PVC line and 3 fly lines. Sprinklers would be
spaced 12 m x 18 m, operate at a pressure range between 20 and 22 m and
sprinkler discharges vary from 1.6 m3/h to 2.9 m3/h. Drip irrigation would
require an operating pressure of 10.5 m to 13 m and discharge 3.5 1/h per
emitter.
Conmlementary Physical Infrastructure
8.        The project would build a surface drainage system to evacuate run-
off water into natural waterways. It also would construct some 60 km of
access roads. Land preparation would involve land clearing, establishment of
wind breaks and soil amendments. Energy for the project would be supplied
from the transmission line Sobral-Acarau to be built by CHESF in 1990. The
project would construct service centers with offices, storage facilities,
workshops and equipment necessary for project operation and housing for
support staff.



- 38 -                  ANNEX_II
Page 3 of 4
B. TABULEIROS DE RUSSAS IRRIGATION SCHEME (lO.500) ha)
Location and Physical Resources
9.        The project is located on the left banks of the Banabuiu and
Jaguaribe Rivers, within the Municipalities of Russas and Morada Nova and
Limoeiro in the State of Ceara. Federal Roads BR-116 from Fortaleza to
Recife and BR-304 from Natal to Aracati, in addition to state roads, provide
easy access to the project area. The distance from Russas to Fortaleza is
162 km, to Natal 300 km and to Recife 803 km. Currently the project area is
well provided with basic infrastructure. A federal road and two paved state
roads cross the project area. Houses in the project area and in adjacent
areas lack water supply and sewage systems and only some have access to
household electricity.
10.       Mean yearly rainfall amounts to 720 mm.  Ninety percent of the
precipitation falls between December and May. The area suffers from
prolonged dry periods and irregular rainfall patterns within the year and
between years. Mean monthly temperatures are around 270 C, iith small
variations throughout the year. Potential evapotranspiration in October
reaches 250 mm. Wind velocity averages 2.5 m/sec but can reach up to 8.5
m/sec in December for a limited duration (one or two hours). The land has a
slightly ondulating topography with slopes generally below 3Z. Natural
waterways provide good drainage for runoff waters. Soils are deep but light
textured with high infiltration rates (80 cm/h) and low soil moisture
storage capacities (8 to 10 cm/m).
11.       The Tabuleiros de Russas Irrigation scheme would be for the
irrigation of 25,000 ha at full development. The project would only finance
the construction of the first stage covering about 10.500 ha. The water
would be pumped from the Banabuiu River, an affluent of the Jaguaribe River.
The Jaguaribe basin is Sartially regulated by the following reservoirs:
Banabuiu (1,690 x 106 m ), Pedras Brancas (500 x 106 m3) and Or6s (2,100 x
106 m3). An additional dam (Castanhlo) with a 3,500 x 106 m3 reservoir
capacity has been planned and would fully regulate the Jaguaribe Basin.
However, existing storage facilities guarantee a minimum flow of 20 m3/sec
at any time during the year which is more than sufficient to meet the needs
of the proposed 10,500 ha project and allows for a sanitary flow in the
river. The waters in the Jaguaribe river basin are of good quality and are
being used by the private sector and in DNOCS projects for irrigation.
Water Demand
12.       About 242 of the area would be irrigated by drip and 762 by
conventional sprinkler irrigation. Water demand has been estimated on the
same basis as the Acarau Irrigation Scheme (para. 5). The peak water demand
at the main pumping station, based on these assumptions and on a 20 hour
operation during peak demand periods, would amount to 1.55 l/sec/ha for
areas under conventional sprinkler irrigation and 0.6 1/sec/ha for areas
under drip irrigation.



- 39 -                  ANNEX It
Page 4 of 4
Off-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure
13.       Off-farm irrigation works include a (a) main pumping station
(Q-13.3m3/i@c; H-42m) on the Banabuiu river, immediately upstream of the
Horada Nova diversion weir, (b) 800 m pressure line, (c) 17 km main
conveyence canal (Q-32m3lsec) and (d) irrrigation distribution network. The
main canal includes an Soom aqueduct and has been sized to meet the needs of
the proposed project and for future expansions of the project area. The
project distribution network would comprise 13.4 km of main canal
(Qi-13.3m3/sec), a secondary pumping station (Q-8m3/sec; H-8m) and a 72 km
canal and 963 km low pressure pipe network. All canals would be concrete
lined. Automation would be achieved by Neyrpic type gates with downstream
control. Water would be delivered to farmgates at gravity pressure. The
project would also provide irrigation kits (pumps and on-farm sprinkler
equipment for 2 to 3 ha) for small holders in areas adjacent to the project
area and along the river (Annex V).
On-Farn Irrimation Works
14.       Farm sizes would vary from 2 ha to 100 ha.  Medium and large
farmers (operating above 8 ha) would irrigate by localized and sprinkler
irrigation methods. They would develop their own on-farm systems. Small
holders (less than 8 ha) would receive their holdings equipped with
conventional sprinkler systems. The lay-out would be simLlar to the Acarau
project (para. 7).
Complementarv Physical Infrastructure
15.       Surface drainage would be limited to minor works for evacuation of
surface run-off into natural drains. Land preparation would include land
clearing, establishment of wind breaks and soil amendmerts. The project
would provide for 226 km of access roads. All roads would be gravelled.
Electricity for the main pumping stations would be supplied through a 69 kv
line to be furnished by COELCE. Approximately 16.9 km of 13.8 kv lines would
supply energy to individual pumping plants within the project area. The
project would also construct support centers with offices, storage
facilities, workshops and equipment necessary for project operation and
housing for support staff.



- 40- A_=  III
Page I of 4
JtiL
ATIMOAL S     SON PROOM
IIOUNKAST IcIJTION I PROJECT
Duos IMI"STIGO  scEiuS
A. GUADALUPE I3UGATIOU SCHIK (11.870 ha)
Location and Phycical lesourcoas
1.        The Guadalupe schem  would cover a not area of about 14,870 ha at
full development. DNOS is presently completing construction of irrigation
vorks to irrigate som 3,000 ha with center pivots (Block 1, phase 1). The
proposed 11,870 ha Bank cofinanced project would benefit frau constructed
headworks, mainly civil works of the main pumping station (ZIP) and a 1.32
km conveyence canal for irrigation of part of the project area (4,100 ha,
Block 1 - phase 2). The project is located in the State of Piaul, to the
south of the Boa Zsperanga Recervoir and close to the City of Guadalupe. The
federal road BR-343 connects Guadalupe with Teresina (360 km). The road is
paved but in poor condition and in need of maintenance. A gravel surfaced
state road (PI-218), also in poor condition and in constant need of repair
for year-round use, links the project area with Floriano (90 ha). The
project area is partly covered by natural vegetation or dedicated to
subsistence crops and lacks all basic infrastructure. Mean annual rainfall
amounts to 1100 m  with about 85  of it occuring between October and March.
The area has a distinct dry period of about 5 months. Mean monthly
temperatures average 26.50 C but reach maximum levels of 290 C in September.
Winds. are mild and generally below 2 m/sec. Maximum potential
evapotranspiration calculated by the Hargreaves method reaches 183 m in
October. The project has ample water supply from the Boa Esperanga Reservoir
(14,800 x 106 m3). Yearly water demands for the proposed project (11,870 ha)
and the first phase irrigation development presently under construction
(3,000 ha) would be at about 200 million cubic meters. The Esperan9a Dam
has been constructed for power generation with a reserve of 400 million
cubic meters per year for irrigation purposes. The project would only
demand 50Z of the resources allocated for irriation purposes. The water is
of good quality for lrrigation purposes. The topography in the area is flat
to gently ondulating with slopes generally below 42. Natural creeks cross
the area and provide adequate surface drainage. Soils are mainly light to
medium textured red-yellow podsols with infiltration rates of around 80 mm/h
and moisture holding capacities at or above 8 cl/m.
Water Demand
2.        The irrigated area under the project would comprise a net area of
11,870 ha distributed in two separate units of 4,100 ha and 7,770 ha. The
area would be allotted in 8 ha farms for qualified settlers, 16 ha for
farmers with technical agricultural background and 30 ha lots for private
enterprises. Displaced small holders would be resettled on 2 to 4 ha lots
(Annex V). The 2 to 8 ha farms would be irrigated by conventional sprinkler
systems and larger units depending on the choice of their owners, by
conventional sprinklers and center pivots. Water demands have been estimated



- 41 -                   ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
based on potential evapotranspiration calculated by the Hargreaves method by
applying FAO recommended (Handbook 24) crop factors. Irrigation
efficiencies have been assumed at 95 for conveyance and distribution, and
70Z for conventional sprinkler irrigation. With the above assumptions and
based on 20 hour daily operation, peak water demands at the main pumping
station would amount to 1.2 l/sec/ha.
Off-Farm Irritation Infrastructure
3.        Water for the Guadalupe project would be pumped from the Boa
Esperanca Reservoir by means of two pumping stations serving Block 1, Stage
2 (4,100) and Block 3 (7,770 ha).
4.        Block 1, Stage 2 (4,100 ha). The main pumping plant (EBP) for
Block 1 would have 8 vertical pumps to lift 9.6 m4lsac 33 m high. Three
pressure lines of about 1,100 mm in length would discharge water into a
regulating reservoir equipped with control gates to release vater according
to irrigation demands. The two main canals CPI and CP2 would serve about
7,100 ha including the 4,100 ha to be financed by the project. Several works
are already under construction and the project would only provide 4 vertical
pumps of 1.2 m3/sec and a pressure line for the main pumping station.
Additional off farm irrigation infrastructure would includes (a) a pumping
station (EBS) on the CP2 canal to lift 4.4 m3lsec an additional 42 mg (b) a
5.4 km lined canal network; and (c) 6 pressurization pumps and a pipe
network for delivery of pressurized water at the farmgates (one pump for
between 428 ha and 840 ha).
5.        Block 3 (7,770 ha).  Block 3 would have its own pumping station at
the Boa Esperanga Reservoir (EBP3) equipped with 16 vertical pumps to lift
10.0 m3/sec 85 m. Three 3,300 m pressure lines would discharge the water
into a 19 km lined canal network. Fourteen pressurization pumps along the
canal (12 serving about 500 ha each and 2 some 1,100 ha each) would
pressurize a pipe distribution network (H - 55 m) and deliver pressurized
and metered water to individual farms.
On-Pamr Irrigation Works
6.        The project area would be occupied by settlers with up to 8 ha
lots, medium sized farmers (16ha) and large holdings. Displaced small
holders would receive 2 to 4 ha lots (Annex 5). Medium and large holders
would install their own on-farm systems and may opt for localized or
sprinkler irrigation methods, including centre pivots. Settlers would be
provided with conventional sprinkler systems comprising a buried main line
and three fly lines. Sprinklers would be spaced 18 x 18m and would operate
at a pressure of 25 m.
Cowlementarr Phlsical Infrastructure
7.        The project would provide collector and interceptor drains to
evacuate surface runoff into natural waterways. Land preparation would
include clearing of the natural vegetation and application of soil
amendments. It would also provide 235 km of access roads to all farms.
Electricity for the project would be supplied from the Boa Esperanga power
plant via a 12 km transmission line to the project's primary substation.
Distribution within the project area would be through a three-phase primary



- 42 -                  Ainu IIl
Page S of 4
line. Three-phase transformoe  would be used to supply the pumping stations
nad service centers. The latter would Include offices, storage facilities,
workshops ad equipmet necessary for project operation and houses for
support staff.
D. TAIUU  L2T03110 InGMON SCIS (7.510 B)
Location and Ph yical Resources
S.        The Tabuleiros Litorancos Schee would cover a not area of about
6,300 ha at full development. Headworks for a 2.1S0 ha first pbhe and on-
farm works for 790 ha have already been constructed and are in operation.
The proposed 7,510 ha lank cofinanced project woulds (a) provide the
distribution network and on-fam irrigation and drainage works for the
remaining 1,390 ha of the phase 1 area to be alotted In 32 ha units to large'
farmers and (b) expand the irrigated area by an additional 6,120 ha,
including a 2J0 ha IMIRAPA research station. The new area would be settled
in S ha, 16 ha and 32 ha farms. The project Is located on the right bank of
the Parnaiba Rlver close to the City of Parnaiba in Northern PiauL. Paved
roads, Bf-343 and PI-210, provide easy access to the project area. load
distances from the project area to Teresina and U o LuiS do Maranhlo are 340
km and 1,290 km, respectively. About 70t of the area is still covered by
natural vegetation and 301 cropped under rainfed conditions, but without any
basic infrastructure. Mean annual precipitation is around 1,200 mu and
concentrated between January and March. Heavy rainfall also occurs In June.
Mean mothly temperatures are around 270 C, November and Decmber being the
hottest months. Average wind velocities are around S i/sec, vith average
monthly values of 4.5 m/sec between September and November. The Tabuleiros
Litor&neos project would pump water from the Parnaiba liver. The river has a
mean flow of 759 m3/sec and an average minimum daily flow of 246 m3/sec at
the diversion site. The lowest flow recorded in 21 years of observation was
207 m3/sec. Project needs, when compared with the above figures are
insignificant. The chemical water quality is good (Cl-Sl). However, the
river carries a great amount of materials in suspension which might increase
filtration costs for localized lrrigation systems and affect irrigation
equipment. The topography of the project area is gently ondulating with
slopes below 31. Natural creek crossings would provide adequate surface
drainage. Soils are coarse textured, ranging from sands to loamy sands at
the surface, unterlain by sandy loams. Infiltration rates are high (over 120
m/h) and moisture holding capacities seldom exceed 6 cm/=.
Water Demand
9.        Water demand has been estimated based on calculated potential
evaporation by the Hargreaves method and applying crop factors as
reco a ded in PAO handbook 24. Irrigation efficiencies have been assumed at
901 for conveyance and distribution and 651 for on-farm irrigation. The low
on-farm sprinkler irrigation efficiency takes into account prevailing wind
conditions   Overall water requirements at the main pumping station during
peak demand periods have been estimted at 1.32 1/sec/ha.
Off-Parm Infrastructure
10.       The project would pump water for irrigation of about 8,300 ha,
S.A.U. Including the 7,510 ha proposed project, from the Parnaiba liver by
means of a 1.1 km Inlet canal and a main pumping station (ZBP). The latter
would be equipped with 10 vertical pumps (2 groups of 5 pumps) and lift 13.1



ANNEX III
- 43 -                    Page   of 4
m3/sec 50 a high. Two pressure lines of 1,560 m would discharge the water
into a regulating reservoir equipped vith control gates to release water
into a 25.7 km main canal (CP) according to irrigation demands. Most of the
abov mentioned headvorks have already been constructed and the proposed
project would provLde onlyt (a) equipment to complete one group of pumping
units (3 pumps of 1.31 u3lsec) and two pressuro lines of 1560 ml and (b)
civil works and equipment for the second group (5 pumps of 1.31 m3/sec) and
2 pressure lint* of 1,560 a. The main conveyence canal has also been
completed. The distribution network for the 7,510 ha project area would
comprise 25.5 km of canals, pressurization pumping station. (one for an
average 500 ha) and pipe network for delivery of metered pressurized water
at faragates.
On-Faim Irrisation Works
11.       Medium and large holdings (l1ha and 32ha units) would Install
their oWn on farm irrigation system and, considering prevailing wind
conditions and soil characteristics, are expected to choose micro sprinklers
or closely spaced conventional sprinklers. Settlers on 2 to 8 ha lots would
be provided with conventional sprinkler systems consisting of a buried main
line and three fly lines. Sprinklers would be spaced at 12 s 12m and
discharge 1.66 m3/h. Operating pressure would be 25m. During peak demand
months the irrigation interval would be every 2 days. The project would
also provide wind breaks to increase irrigation efficiencies.
CCmDleUsntary Physical Infrastructure
12.       The project would include the construction of a simple surface
weter drainage system to evacuate the run-off into natural drains. Land
preparation would comprise land clearing, establishment of wind breaks and
application of soil amendments. It would also include the construction of
82 km of graveled roads. Electricity would be supplied by CEPISA through an
new 69 kv line. The project would provide a 10,000 kva substation with a
69/13.8 kv transformer and 5.4 km of 13.8 kv lines to serve the project
pumping stations. It would construct service centers with offices,
workshops, storage facilities, equipment and housing for project support
staff.



- 44 -                   ANNEX IV
Pasg  of a
BRAZIL
NATIONUL I3UG&TIOI PROGRAM
NORTSIST InZIGT?OIO x PRoJECT
AGICULTURE PRODCTION
A. Formosa X- Irrtitation Schem
Present Land Use and Soils:
1.        CODEVAS? owns the project land, which is presently covered by
thorn bush vegetation. The project area has predominantly medium textured
latosols and podzoln (70?), sandy soils (202) and heavy hydromorphic soils
(101). Experience in similar areas suggests that the medium and light
textured soils are suitable to grow a variety of crops wmder irrigation,
with periodic applications of manure and fertilizers. The hydromorphic
soils are mainly suited for rice production.
Farc Size Distribution and Settlement Phasins
2.        The project area would be settled in four occupation models, two
for small farmers and two for commercial-size agricultural enterprises.
About 80? of the area would be allocated to small farmers and 20S to
commercial farmers. The entire project area would be occupied in the fourth
year after initiation of construction. After the installation on their land
it would take the farmers an additional two years to bring their total farm
area under cultivation. Table I summarizes the projected farm size
distribution.
Pam Models
3.        Four models illustrate conditions of production under the project
and were used for financial and economic analysis. Two models (A, B) refer
to small farmers where soil preparation and the rice harvest are mechanized
and all other operations are done manually; and two (A, B) refer to medium
and large farmers where most farm operations are mechanized.
4.        Sli  Farmers. Model A:  a total of 6 ha located on hydromorphic
soils. At full development (Year 3), 10 ha of rice would be planted
annually, giving a cropping intensity of 1671. HLred labour would meet
about 42S of the total annual labour requirements, the remainder would be
family labour. Model Bs Total of 6.3 ha consisting of medium textured
soils suitable for growing a wide variety of crops. At full development
(Year 4), the planted area would consist oft cotton 4.5 ha, beans 4.5 ha,
carrots 0.5 ha, and grapes 0.5 ha. The cropping intensity would be 167Z
(perennial crops equivalent to two annual crops for estimating cropping
intensity). Annual hired labour requirements would be about 451 of total.



_45 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 2 of a
5.        Lam  Vawrs.  Model A:  Total of 40 ha located on hydromorphic
soils. At full development (Year 3), the planted area would consist of 70
ha of rice, giving a cropping intensity of 175Z. Most farm operations would
be based on hired labour. Model Rs Total of 45 ha of mdium to sandy
textured soils. At full development (Year 2), the planted area would
consist oft cotton 35 ha, beans 30 ha, onions 4 ha. bananas 3 ha, and
passion fruit 3 ha. The cropping intensity would be 1802. Most farm
operations would be based on hired labour.
b. Barreiras Norte Irrigation Schm_
Present Land Use and Soils
6.        The project area is presently occupied by about 103 farms of
various sizes. About 282 of the farms are larger than 100 ha and occupy 842
of the project area. The medium size farms of between 20 to 100 ha
represent 352 of the total farms and occupy 142 of the land, vhile farms of
less than 20 ha represent 372 of the farms and occupy only 22 of the area.
Large holding are generally covered by natural vegetation and pastures for
extensive beef production. The carrying capacity is low, about 5 ha per
head and cattle is sold at 300 kg at about 5 years. Small farmers grow
subsistence crops, mainly manioc and maize and beans planted ln association
to met family food requirements. About 174 ha are presently cropped with
extremely low yields (maniocs 5.0 t/ha; maizes 0.4 t/hal and beans: 0.2
tlha).
7.        Most soils are deep and medium textured.  About 852 are red-yellow
podzols and the remaining are alluvial low lands. The soils are well suited
for irrigation and capable of producing a wide variety of crops, but require
periodic applications of manure and intensive use of fertilizers.
Farm SLee Distributian and Settlement Phasing
8.        The project area would be settled in five occupation models:
Farms of net cultivated area of 2 to 4 ha for farmers entitled for
resettlement, farms of 7.5 ha for small farmers; farms of 17.5 ha for
agricultural technicians, farms of 26 ha for agronomists and farms of 49 ha
for comercial enterprises. It is estimated that four years would be
required to settle farm operators and their families after project
construction is initiated. Table 1 summarizes projected farm size
distribution.
Farm Models
9.        Three models illustrate conditions of production under the
project. One model represents farmers whose land has been requisitioned,
who would have to be settled in the project area, and who would perform all
farm operations manually; the second represents small farmers and farms of
agricultural technicians where soil preparation is mechanized and all other
operations are done manuallyg and the third refers to farms of agronomists
and comuercial farmers where most farm operations are mechanized.



- 46 -                   ANIV
Page 3 of S
10.       Resettlenat Farers.  Model A:  Total of 3 ha =der cultivation.
At full dtevelopment (Year 3), tho planted area would consist oft manioc 1
ha. saise In association with beans 2.5 ha and cotton 1 ha. The cropping
intensity would be 150? based on fumily labour.
11.       Small Fanrers.  Model As Total of 9 ha under cultivation of a
vide variety of crops. At full development (Year 4) the planted area would
consist oft cotton 3 ha, beans 5 ha, onions 1 ha, banunas 1 ha, papayas 1
ha, and passion fruit 1 ha. The cropping intensity would be 1671. Annual
hired labour requirements would be about 52S of total.
12.       Lare Farers.  Model As Total of 36 ha under cultivation.  At
full development (Year 7), the planted area would consist ofs cotton 12 ha,
beans 20 ha, onions 4 ha, tomatoes 4 ha, citrus 6 ha and mangoes 6 ha. The
cropping intensity would be 1782.
C. Acarad Irritation Schim
Present Land Use and Soils
13.       The project area is presently subdividied into 293 fams. About
781 of the farmers operate units of less than 25 ha and represent about 202
of the project area. About 132 have between 25 ha and 100 ha and the
remaining 91 more than lOOha. Some 452 of the project area is still covered
by natural vegetation, 202 are pastures and 351 cropped with manioc (5.0
t/ha) and maize (0.4 t/ha), the latter in association with beans (0.2 tlha)
or planted with cashew (0.2 t/ha).
14.       Project area soils are deep and well drained.  Surface textures
are sandy loams underlain by loamy sands and sandy clay loams. With proper
irrigation management, periodic applications of lime and manure and heavy
fertilization these soils are capable of producing a wide variety of crops.
Farm Size Distribution and Settlement Phasing
15.       The project area would be settled in four occupation models:  net
cultivated area of 2 to 4 ha for farmers entitled to resettlement, 8 ha for
small farmers, 16 ha for agricultural technicians, and 80 ha for large
comercial farmers. Four years would be required to settle farm operators
and their families after project construction is initiated. Table 1
suwmarizes projected farm size distribution.
Far Models
16.       Three models illustrate conditions of production under the
project. One model represents farmers whose land has been requisitioned and
who would be settled in the project area and who do all farm operations
manually; the second represents small farmers and farms of agricultural
technicians where only soil preparation is mechanized; while the third model
refers to large farmers where most farm operations are mechanized.



AM= TV
|  - 47 -                Page 4 of S
17.       Resettlement Farins.  Model As  Total of 3 ha under cultivation.
At full development (Year 3), the planted area would consist oft manioc 1
ha, maize in association vith beans 2.5 ha, and cotton 1 ha. The cropping
intensity would be 1502 based on family labour.
18.       Sll Fa*mrs. Model A: A total of 9 ha under cultivation of a
wide variety of crops. At full development (Year 6), the planted areas
would consist oft cotton 5 ha, peanuts 1 ha, carrots 1 ha, melons 2 ha,
mangoes 1 ha and passion fruit 2 ha. The cropping intensity would be 167Z.
Annual hired labour requireents would be about 562 of total.
19.       Large Farmer. Model A:  A total of S0 ha under cultivation.  At
full development (Year 7), the planted area would consist oft cotton 45 ha,
beans 25 ha, peanuts 30 ha, tomatoes 10 ha, mangoes S ha, grapes 5 ha and
passion fruit.
D. Tabuleiros Rueas Irritatian Sch_
Present Land Use and Soils
20.       The project area is currently occupied by 434 farmers with farms
of different sizes. About 77? of the holdings are below 25ha in size and
represent 18S of the project area, 18? are between 25 and lOOha and the
remaining S5 are farms larger than lOOha. About 44Z of the area is still
covered with natural vegetation, 20? covered with pastures and 361 (about
3,700ha) dedicated to crop production, mainly manioc (5.0 tIha), maize (0.4
t/ha) associated with beans (0.2 tlha), cotton (0.4 t/ha) and cashews (0.2
tIh).
21.       Predominant soils are deep and well drained red-yellow podzols
with sandy to medium textures. With periodic applicaticas of lime and
manure and intensive fertilization, these soils are suitable for production
of a wide range of crops under irrigation.
Fanm Size Distribution and Settlement Phasina
22.       The project area would be settled during a five-year period, in
seven occupation models, as shown in Table 1.
Fam Models
23.       Four models illustrate conditions of production under the project:
resettleomnt farmers, small farmers and agricultural technicians,
agronomists and small enterprises, medium and large enterprises.
24.       Resettlement Farmers. Model A:  Total of  ha under cultivation.
At full development (Year 3), the planted area would consist of: manioc 1
ha, maize in association with beans 2.5 ha and cotton 1 ha. The cropping
intensity would be 150? based on family labour.
25.       Smll Farmers.  Model At A total of 9 ha would be under
cultivation at full development (Year 5) and would consist of: cotton 5 ha,
beans 5 ha, carrots 1 ha, grapes 1 ha, and passion fruit 1 ha. The cropping
intensity would be 167? based on 56? of hired labour.



- 48 -            ~~~AM=E IV
-48 -                    Page 5 of 8
26.       LaLe Farmers. Model A:  With a total of 36 ha under cultivation
at full development (Year 4), the planted area would consist oft cotton 14
ha, beans 25 ha, onions 6 ha, tomatoes 4 ha, bananas 4 ha, and grapes 4 ha.
The cropping intensity would be 181S. Mdel Bs A total of 80 ha under
cultivation and at full development (year 7) would consist of: cotton 35
ha, beans 40 ha, onions 6 ha, tomatoes 10 ha, citrus 15 ha, and grapes 10
ha. The cropping intensity would be 176Z.
S. Guadalupe Irriaation Schem
Present Land Use and Soils
27.       About 63 families live in the project area, 10 of which are land
owners, 32 squatters, 13 share croppers and 8 lease holders. The ownership
pattern is skewed with 772 of the owners having less than 10 ha each and 146
between 1,000 ha and 2,000 ha. At present some 200 ha are cultivated at a
very low productivity level with subsistance crops (maize and beans in
associaLion, manioc) sm11 citrus orchards can be found around the houses.
28.       Latosols and podzols dominate in the project area.  The soils are
deep and well drained. Textures are mainly sandy loams underlain by sandy
clay loams. With proper irrigation management, and periodic applications of
manure, these soils are adequate for cultivation of a variety crops.
Farn Size Distribution and Settlement Phasina
29.       The project would be settled in four occupation modelss  farms of
net cultivated area of 2 to 4 ha for resettlement farmers, 8 ha for small
farmers, 16 ha for agricultural technicians and agronomists, and 32 ha for
large farmers. Five years would be required to settle farm operators and
their families after project construction is initiated. Table 1 summarizes
projected farm size distribution.
Farm Models
30.        aram Models.  Three models illustrate conditions of production
under the project: resettlement farmers, small farmers and agricultural
technicians, and agronomists and commercial farmers.
31.       Resettli_nt Farmrs. Model A.  Total of 3 ha under cultivation.
At full development (Year 3), the planted area would consist of: manioc 1
ha, maize in association with beans 2.5 ha and cotton 1 ha. The cropping
intensity would be 1502 based on family labour.
32.       Smll Farmers.  Model A:  A total of 9 ha under cultivation of a
wide variety of crops. At full development (Year 6), the planted areas
would consist of: cotton 4 ha, beans 4 ha, peanuts 3 ha, papayas 1 ha,
grapes 0.5 ha, and bananas 0.5 ha. The cropping intensity would be 1672
based on 382 of hired labour.
33.       Lare Farmers.  Model At A total of 22.5 ha would be under
cultivation and at full development (Year 4), would consist oft cotton 6.5
ha, beans 9 ha, onions 3 ha, peanuts 9 ha, bananas 3 ha, and grapes 3 ha.
The cropping intensity woula be 1762.



- 49 -                ANOIV
Page 6 of 8
F. Tabuleilros Litorneaob Irrigation Scheme
Present Land Use and Sols
34.       Most of the project area is privately owned vith an average farm
size of about 155ha. About 902 of the area is under natural vegetation,
meanwhile the r.mining 103 are cultivated with subsistance crops, mainly
manioc (5 t/ha), maize (0.4 tlha) associated with beans (0.2 t/ha) and
cashew (0.2 t/ha).
35.       The project area soils are deep, well drained and very light
texturedt  sandy to loamy sand in the surface horizon and sandy loams to
clay loams in the sub-surface. They are extremely low in natural fertility
and have a high infiltration rate. Liming, the use of fertilizers and farm
manure would be required to mainta! crop productivity. The area is
suitable for growing high value crops of fruit and vegetables under an
effectively managea irrigation scheme.
?arm Size Distribution and Settleamet Phasiz
36.       The project area would be settled in five occupation modelst  2 to
4 ha for resettlement farmers 8 ha for small farmers, 16 ha for
agricultural techniciais and agronumists, and 32 ha for commercial farm
enterprises. Settlement of all producers would be accomplished within four
years after start of construction. Table 1 summarizes projected farm size
distribution.
Farm Models
37.       Three models illustrate conditions of production unde&' the
project, resettlement fanmers, small farmers and agricultural technicians,
and agronomists and large farmers.
38.       Resettlement Farmers   Model A:  Total of 3 ha under cultivation,
and at full development (Year 3), the planted area would consist of: manioc
1 ha, maize in association w4th beans 2.5 ha and cotton 1 ha.  The cropping
intensity would be 1501 based on family labour.
49.       2ml11 Farers.  Model A:  Total of 9 ha under cultivation, and at
full development (Year 3), the planted area would consist oft cotton 6 ha,
peanuts 5 ha, and passion fruit 2 ha. The cropping intensity would be 1672
based on 561 of hired labour.
40.       Lage Farers.  Model As A total of 22.5 ha under cultivation and
at full development (Year 7), would consist of: cotton 12.5 ha, peanuts 10
ha, onions 2 ha, bananas 2 ha, citrus 4 ha and passion fruit 2 ha. The
cropping intensity would be 1802.
G. CropOna Patterns. Yields and Production
41.       The cropping patterns at full development would include
traditional crops (varying from 482 in the Tabuleiroo Litaneos scheme to 912
in the Formoso H scheme) such as beans, maize, manioc, cotton and rice, high



- 50 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 7 of a
value annual crops (varying from 102 in the Barreiros scheme to 362 in the
Tabuleiros Litoraneos schem) such as tomatoes, carrots and peanuts, and
high value peremdals (varying from S in the Tabuleiros scheme to 22? in
the Barrtiras scheme) such as bananas, grapes, passion fruit, citrus,
mangoes and papaya. Double cropping would bring cropping intensities at
full development to almot 150 in the case of resettler farmers, 167 for
small holders, and about 180 for farm enterprises.
42.       Projected crop yields, areas, total annual production at full
development are summarized in Table 2. Yield projections assume that small
farmers would need three years to achieve maximu levels and commercial
enterprises two years. Estimated yield levels are comparable vith those
obtained in other irrigated areas in the Northeast of Brasil. Yields for
annual crops have been estimated higher by 10 for commercial enterprises as
compared to sall holders, dur to mechanization and better management, while
the yields of perennial crops were considered the same for all farmers.
Financial Reults
43.       The financial analysis of the farmers who are expected to
participate in the irrigation project has been carried out on the basis of
farm models. The main assumptions regarding the financial analysis of the
models summarized belows
Inout and output urices. The farm gate prices of inputs and
crops have been analysed over a period of ten years. The prices
are the average of the yearly quotations which were deflated and
brought to mid-May 1989 base.
Prolect life. The life of the project assumed in the analysis is
30 years which corresponds to the average life of the on-farm
irrigation equipment.
Replacement of e*uioment. Replacement of on-farm irrigation
equipment has been included and costed in each model according to
its useful life.
Cost recover,. It has been assumed that farmers will be able to
repay for the investments and OM costs of the off-farm
infrastructure and, in the case of farmers below 9 ha, for the
costs of the extension service.
Terms of credit. It has been assumed that farmers will be able
to repay for all costs of on-farm improvement and equipment under
credit arrangements. Farmers below 10 ha, according to the
Irrigation Law, will have to repay their loan obligations over a
period of 25 years at an interest rate of 6? p.a. Larger
farmers, with more than 10 ha, and commercial enterprises will
repay over a period of 12 years at real annual interst rate of
7?.
Opoortunit, cost of capital.  An opportunity cost of capital of
122 has been assumed in the analysis.



AM=E IV
- 51 -                   Page   of 8
44.      The results obtained, on the basis of the above assumptions are
su=arised belowv
The analysis of the models suggests tbat investments are
attractivewith financial rates of return varying from a minimum
of 22.61 to ore than 1001.
Only in the case of the 3.0 ha resettled farmers, the rate of
return for the most expensive schmes, as in the case of Acarau,
may drop below the opportunity cost of capital.
The sensitivity analysis shows that the models are in general not
very sensitive to variations either in costs or in the value of
production.
According to the analysis of the cash flow projections farmers
will be able to pay water charges, in addition to paying for
acquisition of land and improvements made in their farms.
43.      A *u = ry of the financial analysis results is presented in the
following tablet
On-farm        Water         Not Income        r.R..
Ivest.        Charges       After Debt          (1)
i ~~~~..  ... * ** ...   ..
Vomaso one
6   ha Model        5,860         2,470              3,509           73
6.3 ha             14,800         3,800              8,800           47
40.0 ha             22,300        16,000             24,100         100
45.0 ha            115.000        17,900             24,200           26
Tab. Russsa
9.0 ha Model       27,000         3,200             16,800          44
36.0 ha            143,000        13,000             66,000           33
80.0 ha   *        317,800        28,800            178,300           33
Tab. Litoransos
9.0 ha Model       15,600         5,300              7,000          51
22.5 ha             36,800        13,300             26,200           43
Guadalupe
9.0 ha Model       16,500         6,100              9,300          33
22.5 ha             35,400        15,400             33,900           58
Acarau
9.0 ha Model       27,700         3,400             13,300          45
80.0 ha            378,000        31,000            111,000           23
Barreiras
9.0 ha Model       14,000         5,000              8,100          44
36.0 ha   '          48,800       20,000             45,700           49
Resettled la=ers
3 ha larreiras         5,300        1,600              1,300           26
3 ha Acarau           10,600        1,100              1,500            9



- 52 -                   AM=  v
Page 1 of 4
JmIL
ATONAL !3IGTIOU 110
NORTAl? IWRGATIOW I 130130?
S 5TTLUIR? Or   rXCIAR    AIMD AGaICULTURAL mWSIOU
A. SIT?Lfhhf OF DINICIARU
1.       Famer settlement would include selection of beneficiaries.
allocation of farming units, follow-up during a probation period and
preparation and delivery of land titles. The ezecuting agencies CODEVASP
(Barreiras and Formoso B), DNOCS (Acarau and T. Ruseas) and DNOS (Guadalupe
and T. LitorSneos) would be responsible for all settlemeut procedures. The
project would provide irrigated land for: (a) commercial enterprise or
large farmsJ (b) farmers vith technical agricultural background and
commercial farming experience; (c) qualified settlers; (d) resettlement
farmers; and (e) secondary beneficiaries (par&. 5).   Al  beneficiaries,
except commercial enterprises and secondary beneficiaries, would have a
five year probation period. If they do not perform satisfactorily during
this period, they would not receive their land titles and would be removed
from the project area. The following table outlines the number of
beneficiaries by type and subproject.
Proiect Beneficiaries
TYPE AND SIZE
Commercial  Medium-Sized    Qualified    Resettlement    Secondary
Enterprise    Farmers      Small Holders    Farmers       Beneficiaries
Sub-Project   (24-80 ha)  (16-24 ha)       (6 - 8 ha)      (2 - 4 ha)    (up to 3 ha)
Barreiras          36         137              472            209
Pormoso  H         23           -              615              -
Acarau             37          45              441            142             45
T. Russas          73          76              577            428            114
Guadalupe          74         221              735             47              -
T. Litoraneos      25         110              538            156             _
TOTAL       268          589            3.378            982            159



-53 -                     AM= V
Page 2 of 4
Co mercial hterDdrise
2.       About 270 commercial enterprises or large farmers would acquire 24
ha to 80 ha plots through a competitive bidding process. They would
receive water at the faragate and develop their land, including the on-farm
irrigation and drainage system on their own account. They would pay water
charges to cover full investment and operation and maintenance costs for
off farm works, Including a 32 annual interest rate in real terms on public
investments on off-farm infrastructure.
Small Holders and NAdium Size anrera
3.       The majority of the beneficiaries would be about 3,380 qualified
mall holders (6 ha to a ha) and 590 medium sized farmers (16 ha to 24 ha).
The latter would have a technical agricultural background, preferably
agricultural technicians and agronomists with proven experience in
commercial farming. Small and medium irrigators would be selected
according to agreed criteria that ensure that they would be able to operate
their holdings on a commercial basis without subsidies. Main criteria for
selection of farmers would be their education and experience in commercial
agriculture, preferably irrigated crop production. Small holders would
receive their lots fully equipped with on farm infrastructure, including
irrigation works and equipment, which they would repay over a period of 25
years at an annual interest rate of 62 in real terms and a grace period of
up to 5 years. Medium sized farmers would develop their farms and their
irrigation and drainage systems on their own. Both small and medium sized
operators would cover their own on-farm operation, maintenance and
replacement costs and pay water charges to cover their portion of off-farm
operation and maintenance costs and a 32 annual interest rate on capital
investment in off-farm irrigation works.
Resettlement Farmers
4.       Construction of project works would affect some 1,170 small holder
farmers in the project area whose land would be requisitioned. About 190
families who are more advanced technologically, would qualify to receive 8
ha plots under the project (par&. 3). Small holders that do not meet the
criteria for qualified farmers' and are not eligible to receive 6 to 8 ha
units. would be resettled by the project on 2 to 4 ha fully irrigated plots
within the project area. Special attempts were made to locate these lots
as close as possible to their present holdings. About 980 families would
fall into this category. Resettlement would include acquisition of the
family land, provision of the new lot within the irrigation perimeter (in
accordance with the regulations of the National Irrigation Law) and the
transfer of livestock and family belongings to the settlement area.
Resettlement plans would involve a series of routine preparatory steps for
each community, including: (a) a communication campaign; (b) an inventory
of livestock and belongings to be transferred; (c) ratification of
settlement agreements by each family; and (d) arrangements for actual
transfer of the families and their belongings. Resettlement farmers would
repay their portion of project investment and operation and maintenance
costs in the same manner as qualified small holders. Total resettlement
cost, including on farm development and the corresponding portion of off-
farm project costs, would amount to US$14.7 million, as shown in the
following table.



- 54 -                    M= V
Page 3 of 4
Resettlement and Secondary Beneficiaries - Cost Zstimates
Resettlement Costs             Secondary Beneficiaries
Farm
Size   Beneficiaries    Cost      Beneficiaries   Area    Cost
Sub-Project    (ha)       No.          US$'000       No.          (ha)   US$'000
Jormoo *H        -            -             -           _            _
Barreiras        3.0        209         4,020           -            -       -
Acarau           2.7        142         1,790          45          100      96
T. Russas        2.6        428         5,803        114           311     400
Guadalupe        3.0         47           850           -            -
T. Litoraneos    3.0        156         2.250           -            --
TOTAL       -         982         14,713        159           411     496
Seconda    eneficiaries
5.       These comprises (a) 114 farmers in Russas whose land would be
partially requisitioned for project implementation and who would receive
without charge, as indemnization, access to energy and sprinkler irrigation
kits (pump, main lines, fly lines, sprinklers) to irrigate between 2 ha and
3 ha each, on their remaining land by pumping from the Jaguaribe river; and
(b) 45 small holders adjacent to the Acarau project area who would receive
access to water from the project, to develop irrigation on some 2-3 ha on
their own; they would pay for the full cost of water. Irrigation
development costs (Table 3) for secondary beneficiaries have been estimated
at US$496,000, as shown in the table above.
.  AGRICULTUhL EXThISIO
6.       The irrigation districts would provide agricultural extension for
small farmers. Commercial enterprise and farmers vith technical
agricultural background have their own means of access to improved and new
farming technologies. The mix of direct beneficiaries (paras 1 to 4) is
expected to minimize public involvement in the dissemination of advanced
technologies and the management of the irrigated areas. Agricultural
eztension would therefore be limited to assistance for small farmers with
the objective of familiarizing them with the most appropriate technological
packages for irrigated crop production. The irrigation districts would
retain specialized consulting firms for this purpose. During the first
years of project operation the extension program would emphasize the
following main subjectes



- 55 -                   ANUU V
Page 4 of 4
a) Irrigation methods and water management practices;
b) Soil fortility, appropriate use of fertilizers and control of
pH levels through periodic liling;
c) Land preparation, seeding and planting;
d) Effective weed control and plant protection measures,
efficient use of agro-chemLcals;
e) Improved harvesting and storage methods;
f) Economics of crop production and farm management for mazimum
profitability, and
g) Alternate methods for marketing of produce and provision of
inputs.
8.       Extension activities would be carried out by basic teams of one
agricultural technician and one social extensionist. The latter would
divide his/her time between the families covered by two agricultural
technicians. Extension agents would first develop farm leaders and then
use them to demonstrate correct farming and irrigation practices to groups
of 15 or 20 farmers. Denonstration plots would be located within-the farm
leaders' property.
9.       Operation and demonstration units would be installed in each
irrigation district with the objective of introducing new crop varieties
and 'mproved cultural practices. At the same time and reinforcing the
units, performance, experimental practices would be implemented on the land
of individual farmers in conjunction with the agricultural research
stations.
10.      Specialized extension firms would be selected on a competitive
basis, in accordance with the Bank guidelines for each sub-project. Their
proposals should consider: (a) ratio of farmers per extension agent (about
40 during the first two years); (b) training of extension agents prior to
their assignments in the field, and (c) that extension staff would be
expected to live within the project area (offices and houses would be
provided by the district). The firms should also provide a full time
coordinator, supervisors and extension workers, all fully equipped to carry
out their tasks. The proposals should provide names, qualifications and
experience of the coordinator, supervisors and key staff, indicate the
number and qualifications of agricultural and social extension agents and
clearly specify the organization of the team.
11.      Almost 4.100 small farmers would benefit from the extension
service component which would cover an irrigated area of about 27,700 ha.
The project would only finance the cost of the extension service during the
first two years after installation of all farmers on their lots.
Thereafter, the irrigation district would continue to provide the services.
charging its cost directly to the beneficiaries. The estimated total cost
of the extension component financed under the proposed project would amount
to about US$2.2 million.



ANNEXI VI
- 56 -                   Page   of 5
BRAZIL
NATIONAL IRIRIATION PROGRA
NORTEKAST IRRIGATION I PIOJUCT
EXCUTIMN AGRYCIN
Special Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program (SEPRONI)
1.       In February 1986, the Government consolidated most federal
irrigation functions within the Office of the President, under the
direction of a Special Minister of Irrigation (without portfolio). The
Minister was charged with drafting the policy and organizational framework
for accelerated private sector development, rationalizing the activities of
the public sector agencies, (CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS), particularly In the
Northeast, and securing financial and political support for an integrated
national irrigation development effort. Shortly after his appointment, the
Minister created two regional coordinating programss the Northeast
Irrigation Program (PROINE) and the National Irrigation Program (PRONI),
which was responsible for irrigation development in the remainder of the
country. The Minister's plan was to increase total irrigated area in
Brazil by 3 million ha, or 120Z, over five years (1986-90) -- 400,000 ha of
public and 600,000 ha of private irrigation in the Northeast, and 2.0
million ha of private irrigation in the rest of the country. These targets
have been scaled back over the past two years due to a growing
understanding of the technical and institutional constraints of such an
ambitious program, and the dampened economic environment within the
country. In December 1988. the Minister of Irrigation incorporated PROINE
within PRONI.
2.       In January 1989, the Government, as part of its wSummer Plan',
abolished the post of the Special Minister of Irrigation. An Executive
Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program (SEPRONI) was subsequently
established in the Ministry of Agriculture. The PRONI program, together
with its three implementing agencies, (DNOCS, DNOS and CODEVASF) were
placed under the supervision of the new secretariat. These new
arrang ments are basically intended as transitional in nature until a more
permunent institutional framework for promoting water and irrigation
developyent for the next decade has been defined.
3.       SEPRONI is required by the irrigation legislation to prepare the
National Irrigation Plan; elaborate rules and regulations related to water
use for irrigation; approve regional or local irrigation programs; prepare
and sign agreements with public and private institutions and with
international organizations in order to achieve the aims of the National
Irrigation Plan; establish criteria for the planning, executLon, operation,
control and evaluation of irrigation projects; and establish norms and
procedures for introduction and collection of water charges.



_57 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 5
4.       In Brasilia, SEPRONI has PRONI, which is responsible for planning
and coordination of the subsector. SEPRONI also coordinates MINAGRI
agencies with executing responsibilities for public irrigation programs,
and lisiles with the states with regard to private and public irrigation.
For the coordination of preparation activities related to the project,
SEPRONI had a four-man special group which remained an informal structure.
The formal establishment of the Project Coordination Unit, and the
nomination of a Coordinator acceptable to the Bank were conditions for
negotiations. These are now in place.
So Francisco Valley Develon eat Co.Dany (CODTVASP)
5.       CODEVASF's origin dates back to 1948 when the Government
established a commission, CVSF, to promote settlement and economic
development of the 630,000 km2 river basin. The CVSF was modeled on the
Tennessee Valley Authority in the US. Its achievements were disappointing,
and in 1967, the Government decided to create a Superintfndencia do Vale do
Slo Francisco (SUVALE) under HINTER, with specific responsibilities for
coordination and control of rational use of the vater resources of the
valley and promotion of economic achievement; promotion of investment
opportunities in agro-industrial crop production and in livestock;
identification of new development opportunities in the rural sector; and
planning and quantification of the services and works required for
efficient regulation of the main river and its tributaries. In 1971, the
MINTER irrigation group, GEIDA, elaborated the first irrigation targets for
the Northeast in the form of the Plano Pluriannual de Irripacbo (Multi-year
Irrigation Plan - PPI). The first PPI provided the framework for
subsequent irrigation activities and stimulated the preparation of various
master plans and irrigation projects and led to the creation of CODEVASF in
its present form in 1972.
6.       CODEVASF is a public sector commercial enterprise.  It has a board
of directors representing SEPLAN, MINTER, the Ministry of Transport and the
Ministry of Mines and Energy, as well as four members appointed by MINAGRI,
currently its parent organization. CODEVASF has more freedom than the
other Executing Agencies in establishing salaries, and can borrow money and
participate in business enterprises such as agroindustries. Its
headquarters are in Brasilia and it has five semi-autonomous Regional
Directorates located at Montes Claros (Minas Gerais), Salvador (Bahia),
Petrolina (Pernambuco), Aracaja (Sergipe) and Penedo (Alagoas). Regional
Directors report to the President, who is supported in Brasilia by four
headquarters in the areas of planning and coordination, directorate,
engineering, operation and production, and administration and finance.
7.       CODEVASF Regional Directors have a considerable degree of
autonomy. Within their respective areas, they are responsible for
expanding, operating and maintaining CODEVASP irrigated perimeters;
supervising the construction of civil works commissioned by CODEVASF; and
encouraging the *stablishment of agroindustries; and providing general
support and assistance to other regional or state entities, whether public
or private. Regional Directorates have four divisionss programming and
execution of civil works, which is also responsible for collecting climatic
and hydrological data and promoting improved water use efficiency and soil
conservationg operation and maintenance; production support and rural



-58 -                     Page 3 of 5
development; and administration and finance. At the local level, there are
an increasing number of irrigation districts in individual projects each
with their management and support services team. as well as a variety of
special CODEVASF units and support groups.
8.       CODEVAS? is a well-established organization with generally
adequately equipped offices at the local, regional and central levels. It
has a total of 950 technical and professional staff, including 152
agriculturalists 110 civil engineers, and 58 economists. Technical studies
and civil works are mainly contracted and only minor works are carried out
by force account. At present, CODEVASF operates 18 irrigation projects.
with some 54,900 ha under cultivation and 15,500 ha in different stages of
construction.
National DeDartment of Anti-Drought Work (MOCS)
9.       Problems in implementing the public works progran recoamnded
following the drought of 1877-80 led to the establishment of an
Inspectorate of Anti-Drought Works (IOCS) in 1909 under the Ministry of
Public Works. IOCS became a Federal inspectorate (IIOCS) in 1919. In 1945,
it achieved the status of a government department, and under the name.
DNOCS was transferred to MINTER. Today, DNOCS is linked to MIRGRI and
operates throughout the semi-arid Northeast, except as an irrigation agency
in the SSo Francisco Valley. Earlier, DNOCS and its predecessors were
almost the only public works agencies operating in the Northeast and
constructed much of the existing public infrastructure by force account, as
well as storage reservoirs, wells, drainage works, and, more recently,
public irrigation systems.
10.      The current activities of DNOCS are water resource and
hydrological studies; preparation of projects and design for civil works to
conserve and use water; supervision of construction of these works by
contractors; elaboration of plans for integrated development of irrigation
and rainfed land (outside of the Sao Francisco Valley); provision of
extension advice on the conservation, development and rational use of water
resources; promotion of inland fishery development; and agricultural
development of the public irrigation perimeters under DNOCS'
responsibility, the last in cooperation with agricultural credit,
extension, research and other production and social support agencies.
11.      DNOCS headquarters are in Fortaleza, and the organization is
divided into four semi-autonomous Regional Directorates (Fortaleza,
Teresina, Reclfe, Salvador). DNOCS headquarters is divided into main
departments covering planning and coordination, administration, and
operations. Each is under an assistant director general. Within
operations, there are directorates covering the areas of studies,
Lrrigation, civil works, rural engineering and fisheries. The regional
directors report directly to the director general and are responsible for
esecution of all DNOCS studies and planning in their areas, and overseeing
the construction, operation and maintenance of all local DNOCS facilities
and services. Under them are management units which operate the individual
irrigation projects and operational nuclei.



_ 59 -                   ANNM= VI
Page 4 of 5
12.      DNOCS staffing peaked at 18,000 in 1965, at a time when major
works were constructed by force account. Staff recruitment vas frozen in
1974 and per manent staff had fallen to 5,600 by 1989, of whom about 172 are
high level professionals (including about 259 agronomists, 220 civil
engineers and 101 economists). The average age of professional staff is
49. Given this a*ge profile, professional staff have a large pool of
accusulated experience, but may be somewhat resistant to rapid changes in
policies, organization, and functions.
13.      Up to 1989. DNOCS and its predecessors had constructed six large
public reservoirs with a storage capacity of 8.7 billion cubic meters, plus
285 medium reservoirs, with a capacity of 6.6 billion cubic meters plus 700
small size reservoirs with an additional capacity of about 1.5 billion
cubic meters. Only a small part of the water stored in DNOCS reservoirs is
currently used for irrigation. At present, DNOCS has 23 irrigation projects
in operation with some 2'..030 hectares being cropped and 8.500 hectares in
various stages of construction but not yet being cropped. A total of
112,000 hectares has been expropriated by DNOCS for agricultural
development.
14.      DNOCS performance in terms of achievement and managerial
development has been poor. There are many causes which have possLbly
contributed to this poor performance, including under utilization of
capacity, excess of personnel and deficient quality services. The most
important cause, however, is the lack of definition of objectives; without
these results can not be measured against expectations, while deficiencies
can easily be attributed to DNOS involvement in different sectors. For many
years DNOCS was expected to contribute to broader goals and government
policy, with perverse consequences. It was used for expanding employment,
resulting in overstaffing which tended to lower morale at the same time,
limiting its capability to apply its financial resources to new
investments. Nevertheless, the new administration, headed by a competent
official well known to the Bank, is making important efforts to clarify
objectives and aiming to establish a clear operating framework. It is also
committed to implementing DNOCS programs, being aware that subsequent
monitoring of results is essential to success.
National Department of Sanitation (DNOS)
15.      DNOS is the department of the Ministry of Agriculture responsible
for the planning and design, construction and operation of hydraulic
infrastructure in Brazil, outside the areas in the Northeast covered by
CODIVAS? AND DNOCS. Within the Northeast, DNOS only acts if its specific
expertise is required by the Ministry of Agriculture. DNOS was also
responsible for basic surveys and studies related to possible transfer of
water between river basins, such as from the Sbo Francisco Valley to
fertile soils in other basins in the northeast part of the region. Projects
of this sort are expected to be large, slowly maturing and concern the
long-term overall use of water resources.
16.      The DNOS is divided in 15 sei-autonomous Regional Directorates, 4
of which are within the northeast region (S&o Luis, Fortaleza, Recife and
Salvador). At headquarters, in Rio de Janeiro, DNOS is divided into six
departments covering planning, special programs, irrigation, studies, works



- 60 -                   A          SofVI
Page 5 of 5
and financing. These departments have a planning, coordinating and control
function. The executive functions are a responsibility of the regional
directorates that report directly to the director general. DNOS has a total
of 2,300 technical and professional staff including civil engineers,
economists and financial analysts. Technical studies and construction of
civil engineering works are contracted to private firm.
17.      DNOS is a well-established construction agency and its past
ezperience includes the construction, operation and maintenance, and
overall managemnt of semi-public irrigation schemes (covering an irrigated
area of about 14.300 ha) in the southern region of the country. Currently,
DNOS is working on the implementation of five irrigation schemes,
consisting a net area of about 7,900 ha in the States of Maranhao and
Piaui, including the construction of pilot irrigated areas in the Guadalupe
and Tabuleiros Litor&neos irrigation schemes under the project. In these
areas, CODEVASF has assumed, temporarily, the responsibility for the
organization of water users associations and the coordination of the
provision of production support services to the farmers.



BRAZIL
NATIONAL IAIGCATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECT
OrgRnization Chart
IwI
AGIULTUAEJ
~SPECIAL  c
JEAR IA?
S~I
L_=_~~~~~~~~~
r. - --- - - -l - - - - - -, _ _ 0 _ _ _ - -
I  , _  _ {   I ,  _ m    I t_ __  _



- 62 -
ANNEX VII
A.__m  __
A.~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .L                                                                  .      ..   . .4
Off-lmr. Irrigation oal Dr.ainage nfrm.n. tua.   1SI.2   U1.4    g04.J    92.6       S4.1    *2.6    17.0         7.9
OFipm, zrplefme;an VW ODruinm. Itfhuurm       83.3       29.3     97.6    1J.7       36.4    31.2    11.6         2.3
Vjugtrigm  Netors                              9.2        4.8     14.0      6.0       4.0      1.9      0.4        -
mmmd  _et                                      7.6        1.4      9.2      3.3       3.1      2.3      0.a
AisaIte.tve, blldln0*                          2.7        0.4      3.1      1.9       1.2       -        -
Irpigsteim A idj^m    Ilb    Holdr*            0.6       0.1       0.7       -        0.3      0.4       -         -
::bkZet                                      241.6      67.4    329.2      01.6    112.0      t.S    29.7       10.4
Homea,met d OS Irriegmlen ODitricts            2.1        0.1      2.2       -        0.9      0.0      0.4       0.1
AsOculturml Services                           2.0        0.1      2.1       -        0.3      0.6      0.7       0.5
0O6ratitn mw ai   tmnes                       14.9       4.0      20.9       -        3.7      7.4      6.3       3.5
EOirORMa1mg Pretmela, N    _Mro.               1.3 -      0.1      1.4      0.7       0.2      0.1      0.2       0.2
EiihIiMj.                                     22.3       4.3      26.6      0.7   S .1         6.9      7.6       4.S
C. 
T74aiml AIlutmat                              3.0        6.0     11.0      2.6       3.3      3.2      1.3       0.4
llnifoing 6g.tm                                3.0        0.3      3.3      1.0       0.7      0.6      0.5       O.S
CwwmaIWt Services                             16.2        4.5     22.7      6.2       7.7      6.1      2.0       0.7
Su-Tda"l                                      24.2       12.6     37.0    10.0       11.7      9.9      3.8       1.6
YTM  L     m                               2n0.3      104.3     3.6    99.2    12.6   107.4    41.1            16.3
Pb.glml CmatIeg1 low                          22.2        6.0     30.2      7.2       9.4      s.6      3.6       1.2
Price Cmmlugm..l1                             31.0       11.0     42.0      3.9       9.9     16.0      6.3       3.9
841.6     12J.3     40.0    110.3    143.1   1M.0    53.2          21.4



- 63 -
ANNEX VIII
Table 1
BRAZIL
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PROGRAM
NORTEMAST IRRXGATION I PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF BANK DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Bank                        Disbursed      Cumalative
Fiscal         Quarter      During         Disbursement         2      Balance
Year           Ending       Quarter            Amount        of Total  of Loan
1990     Mar 31, 1990          0.0              -                0      210.0
Jun 30, 1990         7.8              7.8              4       202.2
1991     Sep 30, 1990         17.5                              12      184.7
Dec 31, 1990        13.5                              18       171.2
Mar 31. 1991        13.5                              25       157.7
Jun 30. 1991        14.5             66.8             32       143.2
1992     Sep 30, 1991         15.2                              39      128.0
Dec 31, 1991        15.5                              46       112.5
Mar 31, 1992        15.5                              52        97.0
Jun 30, 1992        16.0            129.0             61        81.0
1993     Sep 30, 1992         17.8                              70       63.2
Dec 31, 1992        15.0                              77        48.2
Mar 31, 1993        12.0                              82        36.2
Jun 30, 1993        10.0            183.8             87        26.2
1994     Sep 30, 1993          9.3                              92       16.9
Dec 31, 1993         6.0                              95        10.9
Mar 31, 1994         4.0                              96         6.9
Jun 30, 1994         2.7            205.8             97         4.2
1995     Sep 30, 1994          2.0                              98        2.2
Dec 31, 1994         1.0                              98         1.2
Mar 31, 1995         0.8                              99         0.4
Jun 30, 1995         0.4            210.0            100         0.0



|  t  _ |s                                 -9 Is            c % |F^sr*               ^*tt|r{!fii 
II i  cf
-2                   2 -b                            z! "       -     
8~~~~~~~~a          0fi g     a  i o%a            so                    |il
j                        aa in  n     Is is    met               H    | 
4i.    mu1 I- -
@2     U   I~~~~~~  .2     O    0              01
II                 X !--
01~~~~~~~~~~ 
Is
------  i  ------------------II ----------I-----O--                        T
YT ~~~~~~~~          II -I           Ii           i
---i-----------33--  -------it--------3-----i !                                        e
a le~~
- - - - -           --         -- - --
-.   I~-  -     ------
--   -  -   --   ---        -   -  -     -  ----   ---,,1



-65 -                    AMU IX
Page 1 of 3
DRAM
NAtoNAL IR      ION PROGM
NORIUZST IIhI@ATU I PROJCT
ECONOI C ANALYSIS AND SEITITY TST
BEonamic Analysis
1.       Economic rates of return have been *stited for the project as a
whole and for the siz irrigation schemes. The Incremental production of
each scheme, resulting from irrigated land that previously sustained almost
no economic activity is the main quantifiable benefit of the project. This
has been calculated on the basis of the incremental production of the farm
models.  (Annex IV)
2.       The main assumptions underlying the analysis ares
(a)  Project life.  Thirty years, based on the econoiLc life of the
irrigation infrastructure.
(b) Vithout orolect situation. Only 7,770 ha, or about 162 of the
total project area are presently cultivated. Farmers mostly grow
subsistance crops such as manioc, maize and beans, and they also
produce some cash crops such as cashew and cotton. However
insignificant for the results of the analysis, an attempt has been
made to quantify the existing production and lts value has been
allowed for in the calculatlon of the economic rate of return.
(c) Project costs. The costs stream includes all capital and
recurrent costs such as irrigation and drainage infrastructure,
roads, O&M, equipment and consultancy servLces  Taxes, which
amount to 10.32 on civil works and 27Z on equipment, and other
transfer payments such as the purchase of land have been excluded
from the project's cost stream. Physical contingencies at 52 for
Pormoso, Barreiras and Acarau; and 102 for Russas, Tabuleiros
Litorineos and Guadalupe have been added to costs.
(d)  leplacement of ewAIuent.  Replacment of equipment has been
included in the analysis according to the following schedule:
- on-farm lrrigation equipment every 6 years;
- canal equlpment, pumping and pressurization stations,
15 years;
- plpes, power lines and others 30 years.
(e) Prices of comodities. All prLces have been expressed in constant
1989 currency units. Boarder prices of cotton, rice, maize and
citrus, internationally traded coammodities, have been derived on



- 66 -                   ANNCX IX
Page 2 of 3
the basis of the World Bank price projections of 1988. All other
prices are fagate prices.
(f) Meamn. rate. The shadow exchange rate has been estimated to be
approximately 241 higher than the official rate in 1988. in 1989
the local currency was initially substantially devalued and then
held constant for several months and then permitted the rise
again.   In view of this, a shadow  xchange rate 25Z higher than
the official rate was chosen for 1989. This results from a shadow
exchange rate of US$1.00 - NCZ$ 1.40.
(g) Cost of fertilizers. Brazilian fertilizer prices are generally in
line with the q-uotations of the international markets. However an
adjustment has been introduced to account for the existing
distortion of the country's exchange rate which is affecting the
value of imported fertilizers. These account for about 501 of
total national consumption. The adjustment consisted of
multiplying fertilizer prices by a conversion factor of 91Z, which
has been obtained by applying the exchange rate conversion factor,
833 to 502 of fertilizer prices.
(b) Wake rate. The employment situation and labor opportunities in
each irrigation scheme have been analyzed in a study by the
Getulio Vargas Foundation. Based on this study the following
conversion factors have been adopted to estimate the project's
opportunity cost of labor: Formoso H and Barreiras, 701; Acarau,
Tabuleiros Litorineos and Russas, 601; and Guadalupe, 501.
(i)  Prices of  necE.  The cost of electrical energy in Brazil is
subsidized at a rate of 341, according to studies by the USBR
(United States Bureau of Reclamation) and the Getulio Vargas
Foundation. For this reason, energy tariffs have been adjusted in
the analysis from US$0.038/KWH to US$0.051KWH.
(j) Other costs. All other costs of production inputs such as seeds,
seedlings and machinery have been considered as internationally
non-traded commodities and valued at their financial prices.
3.       The total incremental production of the project (Annex IV) would
reach, from Year 10 onwards, approximatelyt 62,800 tons of cotton, 59,000
tons of passion fruit, 46,800 tons of citrus, 55,000 tons of tomatoes,
'8,000 tons of banana, 51,000 tons of grapes, 48,000 tons of onions, in
addition to other traditional crops such as 38,000 tons of beans, 20,000
tons of peanuts, and smaller quantities of rice, maize and manioc.
4.       The economlc rates of return (Table 1), based on the above
assumptions, show that the proposed investments in irrigation in the six
perimeters are economically viable.



- 67 -                   PAge  of I
Irritstion Scheme                Bconomic Rate of Return
(X)
Formoso                                     16 7
Tabuleiros de Russas                        18.5
Tabuleiros Litorlneos                       14.2
Guadalupe                                   14 5
Acarau                                      17 1
Barreiras                                   14.2
Total Project                               16 0
5.       The above conclusions are confirmd by the results of the
switching values of the overall project detailed In Table 2. The economic
rate of return appears moderately more sensitive to reductions In the value
of production than to increases in costs: when the value of production
decreases by 142, or costs increase by 392, the En3 becomes equal to the
assumed opportunity cost of capital of 122. The sensitivity analysis of
each individual project, however, shows that three projects, Tabuleiros
Litorineos, Guadalupe and Barreiras, are very sensitive to variations In
the value of production; there, a decrease of the value of production by
about 82 generates an ERR of 122.



- 68- h-WE   I
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PIOGRAM
NOIRTHEAT IURGATON I PROJECT
DOCCUUS AVAnABE IN PROJECT FILES
A.       Documents preared by PROI
1. General Report
2. Project Management
Annex A: Institutional Framework
Annes B:  Institutional Regulations
Annex Cs  Training Program
3.  Irrigation Districts Organization
4.  Production and Marketing
Annex As  Potential Markets for Agricultural Products
Annex Bs Marketing Structure
5. Resettlement Program
6. Environmental Impact
7. Monitoring and Evaluation System
S. Technical Assistance to DNOCS
9. Laws and Regulations
10.  Formoso H Irrigation Sub-Project:  Sunuary
11.  Barreiras Norte Irrigation Sub-Project:  Summary
12. Acarau Irrigation Sub-Project: Summary
13.  Russas Irrigation Sub-Projects  Summary
14. Guadalupe Irrigation Sub-Project: Summary
15. Tabuleiros Litorineos Irrigation Sub-Projects Sumiary
B.       Documnts Prepared by the Executing Aaencies and their Consultants
1.  Formso H Irrigation Sub-Projects  Feasibility Report
2. Barreiras Norte Irrigation Sub-Project: Feasibility Report
3. Acarau Irrigation Sub-Projects Feasibility Report
4. Russas Irrigation Sub-Project: Feasibility Report
5. Guadalupe Irrigation Sub-Projectt Feasibility Report
6. LitorAneos Irrigation Sub-Projects Feasibility Report
C.       Other Documents
1. Agreements entered into by project participating entities.
2. Report on taxes exemption for goods and equipment.
3. Agriculiural Development, Financial and Economic Analysis -
Working Paper. FAOIWB Cooperative Program.
4.  Irrigation Schemes and Costs - Working Paper.  FAOIWB
Cooperative Program.



B R A Z I L
NATIONAL IRRIGATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECT
i' /\ 1.; /i.  J  \   tgo Ut                      oo det 8lod5                   190     ?0    300
r   \                 ~~~~~~~~TABULEIROS       see . BR 210 -          (LOMT
, /   \        ]        ~~~~~LITORANEOS            A  ACARAU
S.4
1?                                                                                                                       1?/ C01poI  TAB
+   _,  F   S                             tfPESIN                 /      RUSSAS )        v    t~~MA 
RR)'  .SUB\PROJEC NATAL
. o \ v ~4/                                                                                       t Arot
ji                /                                                                            StpatoDE\, Bs aq tjnday
t GUAOQOUff p< ,/ J PE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA
-r   9                            \                  =                 ,_tREC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FE
MACE16~~16
BA '...1f, RX9EIRA
NOR-                                                              __ ___E_
N                t-   z   ,7  r  4v                  IRGATION SUIPROJECT.
NORTEAS
$              t~~~~~, FORMOSA H      4                     -t DNOS
MaiL         REGNRo
bAG Pi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULU                                                      I)~~~~~~~~~L.Pr
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    A J -/po. r@ 
6V       <'~ma                                     E    I                                                        S |  Sbte Capitals  1989
44-0   ,{.a    >-   l         "X) }                     ---  ' towns
*~~~~U                                                                                                    Sk'!  Boundari1es,.tl:
</sz T-boterd } v Ni;sct ( ~~~~~~~~~~NORTHEAST
z    o r                       )                    1    ox    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL   ,REGION
b,A0 PAIJa(,   (              ..                               f,'           - 6.      
SEP1    1989



IBR-
.A                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL IRRIGATIOr-
PROGRAM
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION
'',  ',)                                                                                                                  I a                                       1'    PROJECT
ACARAU IRRIGATION SCHEI
GENERAL LAYOUT
C~ IERIGATED PLOTS
-EXISTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES
2 KLSESRTLERS PLOTS
mADJACENT SMALL HOLDERS
- SETTLEMENT CENTERS
PRESSURE LINES
-CANALS
-    ESERVOIRS
Rn  -  IV' RS
MAIN ROADS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Rive,-
'M -adn
CO_ IOMR'1A      LU.UGUI' N
RJGION
I        R      ZIfNOT1ES
K>-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~611
KILOMETER$                     'AC)FI
~~~~                                                                                                                          OLIVIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  RIV$iIO@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
S                 5    ~      ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~           L..~~~~~~~
__________________MILES.
P1. 1   ..a  ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                              S                   I                  2 -I-
r.~~1.. Cp1.p  IV~~~*b. ~~.MPRo~~'b. ~~ t ~~ nIl                                    MILES                                             /  RGENTINA    /~~~



