Page  1
October 9, 1998
Dr. Pedro Sampaio Malan 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "P" 
Brasília, D.F. 70.048-900,  
Brazil
Dear Sir:
Re.  Loan 3170-BR (Northeast Irrigation I Project)
                          Amendment to the Loan Agreement
We refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-referenced Project (the Agreement) 
between Federative Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated April 19, 1991, as amended.  Pursuant 
to the request sent by the Secretariat of Water Resources dated July 28, 1998 to the 
Bank, we agree to amend the Agreement with the insertion of a new paragraph (e) in its 
Section 3.01, to read as follows:
“(e)
The Borrower shall, through DNOCS, enter into contractual 
arrangements, 
satisfactory  to the Bank, with the State of Ceará 
(the Ceará Contractual Arrangements), for the  purposes of causing the state of Ceará 
to carry out certain activities under Parts A and B of the 
Project in the irrigated 
perimeters of Baixo Acaraú and Tabuleiro de Russas. The Borrower shall 
exercise its 
rights and comply with its obligations under the Ceará Contractual Arrangements in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce such Contractual Arrangements or any provision 
thereof.”
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating both 
originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  This 
amendment shall enter into effect on the date of this letter, provided that the Bank 
receives one original of it signed by the representative of the Borrower.
Because of their interest in the matter, we are copying this letter to Dr. 
Gustavo Krause, Minister of Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon; Mr. 
Tasso Ribeiro Jereissati, Governor of the State of Ceará, Dr. Paulo Alfonso Romano, 
Secretary of Water Resources; Dr. Airson Bezerra Lócio, President (CODEVASF); and 
Conselheiro Daniel Andrade Ribeiro de Oliveira, Secretary of International Affairs 
(SEAIN).
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Country Management Unit - Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Itamar José Barbalho
Authorized Representative
Date:
April 13, 1999
Page  2
