Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 3170 BR
(National Irrigation Program
 Northeast Irrigation Project)
 between
 FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
 and
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 19, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3170 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 1991, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, through SENIR  and DNOCS 
(each as hereinafter defined) and with the participation of CODEVASF, and the Borrower 
will make available the proceeds of the Loan: (i) to CODEVASF pursuant to an agreement 
(the Subsidiary Agreement as hereinafter defined); and (ii) to SENIR and DNOCS under 
arrangements (the Financial Arrangements as hereinafter defined) as provided in this  
Agreement;
Page  2
(C)
by the agreement of even date herewith (the Project Agreement) between 
the Bank and CODEVASF, CODEVASF has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
the Project Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the  following  additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Account Bank" means the Bank referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
"Annual Operating Plan" means each annual operating plan provided to the 
Bank each year in respect of each of SENIR, DNOCS and CODEVASF (each as hereinafter 
defined) and which shall include an implementation schedule  in respect of 
implementation of the Project, and "Consolidated Annual   Operating Plan" means the 
consolidated annual operating plan prepared in each year by SENIR (as hereinafter 
defined) consolidating all such Annual Operating Plans in accordance with Section 3.07 
of this Agreement;
(c)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Brazil, Banco Central do Brasil, 
established by Lei No. 4.595, dated December 31, 1964;
(d)
"CESA" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(e)
"CEPISA" means Centrais Eletricas do Piaui S.A., established by Lei 
Estadual No. 1948 of December 1, 1959;
(f)
"CODEVASF" means Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco, 
established by the Borrower's Lei No. 6088 of July 14, 1974;
(g)
"COELCE" means Companhia Energetica do Ceara, established by Lei Estadual 
No. 9477 of July 5, 1971;
(h)
"COELBA" means Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia, established 
by Lei Estadual No. 1196 of October 16, 1959;
(i)
"Contractual Arrangement" means an arrangement entered into or to  be 
entered into between an Electrical Entity (as hereinafter defined) and CODEVASF, or 
the Borrower, through DNOCS, for purposes of carrying out Part  A of the Project, 
pursuant to Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement and Section 2.06 of the Project 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined); and "Contractual Arrangements" means, 
collectively, all such Contractual Arrangements;
(j)
"Cruzeiro" means a unit of the currency of the Borrower;
 
(k)
"Decree No. 99.244" means Decreto No. 99.244 of May 10, 1990 of the 
Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement, pursuant to which SENIR (as 
hereinafter defined) was empowered to coordinate and carry out the Borrower's 
irrigation programs;
(l)
"DNOCS" means Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas, an agency 
Page  3
(autarquia) of the Borrower established pursuant to Decree-Law No. 8486 of December 
28, 1945, as amended by Law No. 4229 of June 1, 1963;
(m)
"Electrical Entities" means collectively, all of the entities defined in 
paragraphs (e), (g) and (h) of this Section, and such other electrical entities as 
shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank for  purposes of carrying out a 
portion of Part A of the Project; "Electrical  Entity" means any one of such 
Electrical Entities;
(n)
"FESA" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(o)
"Financial Arrangement" means each of the arrangements to be made 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement between the Borrower and SENIR (as 
hereinafter defined) and the Borrower and DNOCS, to transfer  proceeds of the Loan to 
SENIR (as hereinafter defined) and DNOCS, pursuant  to this Agreement and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
(p)
"FSRMM" means AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of 
the Merchant Marine, Adicional ao Frete para Renovacao da Marinha Mercante, 
established by Decree-Law No. 1.142 of December 30, 1970 as amended to December 31, 
1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
may substitute for it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(q)
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
MARA, SENIR (each as hereinafter defined), CODEVASF and DNOCS, pursuant to Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the  Project Agreement setting out 
each parties responsibility for execution of  the irrigation and drainage works, 
establishment of Irrigation Districts  (as hereinafter defined), establishment of 
project management units in each of SENIR (as hereinafter defined), CODEVASF and DNOCS 
and management of the irrigation schemes for the purposes of carrying out the Project 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
thereto;
(r)
"Irrigation District" means each district organized by CODEVASF and the 
Borrower, through DNOCS, in accordance with the Project and each of  which shall be a 
private association under Brazilian law and the members of which shall be Project 
Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined);
(s)
"Management Committee" means the management committee which shall  
consist of the heads of SENIR (as hereinafter defined), CODEVASF and DNOCS, and which 
shall meet periodically to evaluate the execution of Part A of the Project and make 
decisions and recommendations on issues presented to such committee by the Project 
Coordinating Unit (as hereinafter defined);
(t)
"MARA" means Ministerio da Agricultura e Reforma Agraria, the  Borrower's 
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform;
(u)
"Monitoring System" means the information system set up by SENIR (as 
hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement which  shall have the 
following objectives: (i) to provide information on the  physical, financial and 
organizational progress of the Project; (ii) to monitor the organization of water 
distribution and management, and  operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes 
under the Project; and  (iii) to monitor and evaluate the effect of the Project on the 
farmers in terms of farmer services, availability of inputs, market situation, land 
use, crop intensity and production levels;  
(v)
"Plano de Aplicacao" means the annual plan agreed to at the beginning of 
each fiscal year between MARA and the Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento 
of the Borrower, for release of funds for expenditures required to carry out the 
relevant Consolidated Annual Operating Plan to be financed by the Borrower either from 
the counterpart  funds or from the proceeds of the Loan;
(w)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CODEVASF of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to such Project Agreement;
Page  4
(x)
"Project Area" means irrigable land in approximately 4,875 hectares in 
the municipality of Bom Jesus da Lapa in Bahia, 8,725 hectares in the municipalities 
of Barreiras and Riachao das Neves in Bahia, 8,207  hectares in the municipalities of 
Acarau, Marco and Bela Cruz in Ceara,   10,500 hectares in the municipalities of 
Russas and Limoeiro do Norte in  Ceara, 11,872 hectares in the municipality of Nova 
Guadalupe and 7,509 hectares in the municipalities of Parnaiba and Buriti dos Lopes in 
Piaui, and the land belonging to the PONTAL irrigation scheme in Pernambuco;
(y)
"Project Beneficiary" means a farmer, or group of farmers, or farming 
organization with juridical capacity to contract under the laws of  the Borrower 
(including Small Farmers as hereinafter defined) selected to irrigate farm land in the 
Project Area;
(z)
"Project Coordinating Unit" means the project coordinating unit within 
SENIR (as hereinafter defined) for the purposes of inter alia: (a) assisting SENIR (as 
hereinafter defined), CODEVASF and DNOCS in multi-year and annual planning and ensure 
consistency with sector policies and  guidelines; (b) providing technical 
implementation assistance to SENIR (as  hereinafter defined), CODEVASF and DNOCS; (c) 
supervising implementation of  the irrigation program; (d) organizing and managing a 
sector Monitoring  System; and (e) assisting SENIR (as hereinafter defined) with 
regard to the policy and funding decisions of MARA;
(aa)
"Resettlement Plans" means the plans prepared by the Borrower, through 
SENIR (as hereinafter defined), DNOCS and CODEVASF previously agreed to by the Bank 
prior to the entering into of this Agreement for the reallocation of the rural 
families affected by the implementation of the Project;
(bb)
"Special Account" means either of the accounts to be opened pursuant to 
paragraphs (b) and (c), and maintained pursuant to paragraph (d) of, Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(cc)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through MARA, and CODEVASF, pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and  such term includes all schedules to 
the Subsidiary Agreement;
(dd)
"SUCAM" means Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica of the 
Borrower, established by Decreto No. 66.623 of May 22, 1970 of the Borrower;
(ee)
"SENIR" means Secretaria Nacional de Irrigacao, within MARA, established 
pursuant to Decree No. 99-244;
(ff)
"Small Farmer" means a Project Beneficiary who has been allocated from 2 
to 8 hectares of irrigable land in the Project Area(s); and "Small  Farmers" means any 
or all of such small farmers;
(gg)
"Technical Unit" means the technical unit established in SENIR and  
maintained in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(hh)
"Treasury" means Departmento do Tesouro Nacional, of the Ministry of 
Economy, Finance and Planning, Miniserio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento, of the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of  two hundred and ten million 
dollars ($210,000,000) being the sum of the  proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the  date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the  Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
Page  5
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars an account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, this account  (hereinafter called the CESA) 
shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in Cruzeiros incurred in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project and to be 
financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(c)
The Borrower for the purposes of the Project, shall open and maintain 
thereafter in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, (the Account Bank) an account in dollars 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Disbursements out of this account 
(hereinafter called the FESA) shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in 
currencies other than Cruzeiros  incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required to carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant 
to paragraph (a) above.
(d)
Deposits into, and payments out of, the CESA and the FESA shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The  Borrower, 
through the Central Bank and SENIR, shall furnish to the Bank each month certified 
statements of the CESA and the FESA, respectively.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings  determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Page  6
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%). 
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such 
Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform and any  person or 
persons duly authorized in writing by the Minister for such purpose are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes  of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with  appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, agricultural, irrigation  and environmental practices (i) 
shall carry out through: SENIR, Parts C (a)  and C (b) of the Project; and DNOCS, that 
portion of Parts A, B and C (d) of the Project located in the states of Ceara and 
Piaui and Part C (c) of the Project; under the Financial Arrangements and the 
Implementation Agreement; (ii) shall cause CODEVASF to carry out a portion of Parts A, 
B and C (d) of  the Project in the State of Bahia and Part C (e) of the  Project in 
the State of Pernambuco in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, 
the Subsidiary Agreement and the Implementation Agreement; (iii) shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the carrying out of the Project; 
and (iv) shall not take or permit  to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
As part of the foregoing, the Borrower, through MARA, shall enter into 
the Implementation Agreement with SENIR, CODEVASF and DNOCS setting  out each party's 
responsibilities for the purposes of carrying out the  Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to 
CODEVASF under the Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through MARA, and CODEVASF under terms and conditions which shall  have been agreed 
with the Bank, and part of the proceeds of the Loan  available to SENIR and DNOCS 
under the Financial Arrangements.
(d)
In respect of the Subsidiary Agreement, the Financial Arrangements and 
the Implementation Agreement the Borrower shall exercise its rights  under in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the  Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or the Financial 
Arrangements or the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Page  7
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services,  plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried out by 
CODEVASF in respect of its portion of Parts A, B and C (d) of the Project, pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain within SENIR the Technical  Unit with 
a structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank. The  functions of the 
Technical Unit include: (a) updating of sectoral strategies, policies and programs and 
preparation of general studies related to irrigation development; (b) planning and 
monitoring of program implementation and performance studies, financial planning, and 
periodic performance review of relevant subsector institutions; and (c) the 
preparation of a technical manual and standards for guiding SENIR, CODEVASF and DNOCS 
and State irrigation organizations in the implementation of irrigation projects.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain within SENIR, throughout  the 
period of Project implementation, the Project Coordination Unit, with  functions and 
organization, including a Project manager and adequate number  of staff, all 
acceptable to the Bank; (b) establish, through SENIR, the Monitoring System, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) prepare through DNOCS, not later than June 
30, 1991, staffing, training and development plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
purposes of the institutional development of DNOCS under Part C (c) of the Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower shall, through SENIR, furnish, not later than three months 
after the end of each semester and each fiscal year  respectively,  semi-annual and 
annual progress reports concerning the implementation of  the Project of such scope 
and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
The Borrower, through SENIR, shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to: (i) the progress of the Project; (ii) the 
performance of SENIR and DNOCS obligations in relation to the Project; (iii) the 
Implementation Agreement and the Contractual Arrangements; and (iv) other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(c)
The Borrower, through SENIR, shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance  by SENIR and 
DNOCS of their respective obligations in relation to the  Project and under the 
Implementation Agreement and the Contractual Arrangements.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to or restriction upon its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
through SENIR, in each year prepare or obtain in respect of the Project 
(as appropriate) a draft Annual Operating Plan for or from, each of  SENIR, CODEVASF 
and DNOCS, consolidate such Annual Operating Plans, and, by   June 30, furnish a draft 
Consolidated Annual Operating Plan to the Bank for its review and comment, and, 
further thereto, prepare a final Consolidated Annual Operating Plan taking into 
account such review and comment;
(b)
in each fiscal year, cause the Treasury to make available to SENIR, 
CODEVASF and DNOCS, through MARA, all funds for expenditures to be financed by the 
Borrower, either from the counterpart funds or from the  proceeds of the Loan required 
to carry out the Project in accordance with,  and within the time period set forth in, 
the relevant Plano de Aplicacao; and
(c)
finance the expenditures in respect of Recurrent Costs, which term for 
these purposes means any expenditures financed by the counterpart funds in respect of 
salaries and related costs of the personnel required for the planning, budgeting and 
coordination activities in the Irrigation Districts  during a fiscal year.
Page  8
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through MARA, shall:
(i)
cause charges to Project Beneficiaries for water supplied under 
the Project to be 
set at levels sufficient to recover: (A) 
investment cost, plus a minimum rate of 
interest of 3% per 
annum, on the investment cost of off-farm irrigation works 
financed in whole or in part from the proceeds of the Loan; and (B) the operation 
and maintenance costs of such works;
(ii)
cause such charges to be made by each Irrigation District to each 
Project 
Beneficiary to be initially made on a 
progressively increasing basis for four 
years, beginning the 
first year of cultivation by each Project Beneficiary; and
(iii)
adjust such charges to achieve such cost recovery on at least an 
annual basis and 
in accordance with a methodology satisfactory 
to the Bank and ensure that the Bank 
has an opportunity to review any 
proposed water charges prior to making any 
adjustment thereto.
 
Section 3.09. The Borrower:
(a)
through SENIR and DNOCS, shall maintain the Contractual Arrangements 
entered into with the relevant Electrical Entities (DNOCS with  COELCE and with 
CEPISA), upon the terms and conditions previously agreed with the Bank, for the 
provision of energy required by the irrigation  schemes located in Ceara and Piaui 
under Part A of the Project;
(b)
through DNOCS, shall enter into an agreement with SUCAM, no later  than 
December 31, 1992, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, for the carrying out of a campaign against water-borne diseases in the Project 
Area;
(c)
shall enter into an agreement, no later than May 30, 1991, in accordance 
with the proposal therefor provided to the Bank in accordance with Section 6.01 (c) 
(ii) of this Agreement, for the provision of  technical assistance to DNOCS for the 
implementation by DNOCS of its part of the Project; and
(d)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not take or concur, and 
shall ensure that SENIR and DNOCS do not take or concur, in any action which would 
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, waiving or failing to enforce any 
of the arrangements and the agreements  referred to in (a), (b) and (c) above.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through DNOCS, shall implement the relevant 
Resettlement Plans, previously agreed with the Bank, in accordance with the  terms 
therein contained, to ensure the settlement of Project Beneficiaries under the parts 
of the Project carried out by DNOCS.
Section 3.11. Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower, through 
DNOCS, shall, with respect to the Irrigation Schemes located at Ceara and Piaui under 
Part A of the Project:
(a)
conclude selection of Project Beneficiaries no later than December 31, 
1992, or such later date as shall be agreed to by the Bank, and, on conclusion of such 
selection, organize in each irrigation scheme, an  Irrigation District, and cause to 
be maintained all such Irrigation  Districts with an organization, structure and 
functions, including a general manager and competent staff in adequate numbers, all 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;
(b)
cause each Irrigation District referred to in (a) above to sub-contract, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the  Bank, no later than 
three months after its establishment in accordance with  (a) above, the provision of 
extension and marketing services to such Irrigation District, to an entity specialized 
in the provision of such services which has qualifications and experience satisfactory 
to the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c)
cause each Irrigation District referred to in (a) above to  subcontract, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the  Bank, no later than 
Page  9
three months after its establishment in accordance with  (a) above, the operation and 
maintenance of irrigation works to an entity specialized in such operation and 
maintenance, which has qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Borrower and 
Bank.
Section 3.12. The Borrower, through MARA, shall:
(a)
cause each of SENIR and DNOCS to appoint, throughout the execution of the 
Project, a chief, for each of the SENIR and DNOCS project management units and cause 
each of SENIR and DNOCS to appoint heads of the field units  for each relevant 
irrigation scheme established by DNOCS, with  qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference, all acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
(i)  maintain the special group currently existing in DNOCS to oversee 
the management of agricultural development in irrigated areas until  such time as the 
directorate of hydro-agricultural operations referred to  in paragraph (ii) of this 
subparagraph is created; and (ii) no later than October 31, 1991, present for fiscal 
consideration to the appropriate branches of Government an official proposal for the 
creation in DNOCS of a directorate of hydro-agricultural operations to oversee the 
management of agricultural development in irrigated areas, with structure, functions 
and staffing, and thereafter to maintain the same.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause each of SENIR and DNOCS 
to maintain, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in  accordance with 
sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have such separate records and accounts, and, where appropriate, 
financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related 
statements) and the 
records and accounts for the CESA and the FESA for each fiscal 
year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the aforesaid accounts and 
financial statements for such 
year so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or ensure the retention of, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures until at least 
one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
 
(iv)
ensure, or cause each of SENIR and DNOCS to ensure, that the 
records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of this 
Page  10
Section and those for the CESA and the 
FESA for each fiscal year 
are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified; provided, however, that, if any of the 
events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (e) shall have  occurred and be 
continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited to withdrawals in respect of Project 
expenditures relating to any of SENIR, DNOCS or CODEVASF, as the same shall have been 
affected by such event:
(a)
CODEVASF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the  Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CODEVASF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment or abolition of any  of SENIR, 
CODEVASF or DNOCS or for the suspension of any of SENIR, CODEVASF or DNOCS' operations 
or part of its operations, and, by such time, the Borrower shall not have assumed, 
assigned or transferred the obligations of  SENIR, CODEVASF or DNOCS which have been 
so affected, with the prior acceptance of, and in a manner satisfactory to, the Bank.
(d)
Decree No. 99.244 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as  to affect the carrying out of the Project.
(e)
a change shall have been made in any of the Contractual Arrangements or 
there shall have been a failure to enforce any of the Contractual Arrangements, 
provided that in such event the Borrower, through  SENIR, DNOCS or CODEVASF, has not 
made alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer of any such 
Contractual Arrangement, or for the completion of the part or parts of the Project 
governed by such Contractual Arrangement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) or (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this  Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CODEVASF and the Financial Arrangements have been formalized between the Borrower and 
SENIR and DNOCS;
(b)
this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(c)
the Borrower has: (i) entered into, through SENIR, an agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of technical assistance under  the National 
Irrigation Program; and (ii) prepared, through DNOCS, a  proposal satisfactory to the 
Page  11
Bank concerning the provision of technical  assistance to DNOCS for the implementation 
by DNOCS of its part of the Project;
(d)
the Borrower, through SENIR and DNOCS, and CODEVASF have acquired all 
irrigable land in the Project Area for the purposes of implementation of Parts A, B 
and C (d) of the Project;
(e)
the Borrower has entered into the Implementation Agreement satisfactory 
to the Bank with SENIR, DNOCS and CODEVASF setting forth each parties respective 
responsibilities in respect of carrying out the Project;
(f)
the Borrower, through SENIR, has established the Monitoring  System, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for monitoring project activities;
(g)
the Borrower has allocated adequate funds from its proposed fiscal year 
1991 budget to be made available to SENIR, DNOCS and CODEVASF for implementation of 
the 1991 Consolidated Annual Operating Plan; and
(h)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower to perform its  obligations pursuant to this 
Agreement, together with all necessary powers  and rights in connection therewith, 
have been performed or given.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CODEVASF, and that such Project Agreement is legally binding upon CODEVASF in 
accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CODEVASF, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CODEVASF, in 
accordance with its terms and that the Financial Arrangements  have been duly 
formalized, as appropriate, by each of the parties thereto;
(c)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(d)
that each of the agreements entered into by the Borrower, pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties 
thereto and that each such agreement is legally binding upon  the respective parties 
thereto in accordance with its terms; and
(e)
that the Implementation Agreement entered into pursuant to Section 6.01 
(e) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the Borrower, 
SENIR, CODEVASF and DNOCS, and that such agreement is legally  binding upon each of 
the Borrower, SENIR, CODEVASF and DNOCS, in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 17, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy, Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Economia,
Page  12
   Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P"
70048 Brasilia, D.F. Brasil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MEFP
61-1506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brasil
With copies to:
SENIR
Ed. Sede da CODEVASF
SGAN. Q.601 Conj. 01
4o. Andar
70830 Brasilia D.F.
Brasil
Telex:
61-2933
DEAIN
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
MEFP
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K"
70040 Brasilia, D.F. Brasil
Telex:
61-1146
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64l45 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Helio Gil Gracindo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  13
By /s/ George P. Papadoupoulos
 Authorized Representative
HIS EXCELLENCY
MR. FERNANDO COLLOR DE MELLO
PRESIDENT OF THE FEDERATIVE
   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to  each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed 
(1)  Civil works           58,000,000           100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                25% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Goods and            115,000,000           100% of foreign
     equipment                                  expenditures and
                                                40% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Consultants'          22,000,000           100% of foreign
     and other                                  expenditures and
     services                                   30% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Unallocated           15,000,000
                          ___________
          TOTAL           210,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals  shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures for goods the importation of which has been prohibited by 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:
Page  14
(a)
to develop irrigation in the Project Area;
 
(b)
to increase agricultural production in the States of Bahia, Ceara and 
Piaui; and
(c)
to facilitate the future expansion of the irrigation subsector by 
institutional development, including the creation and development of  Irrigation 
Districts in each irrigation scheme under the Project.
The Project is to be carried out in the Project Area and consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank 
may agree upon from time to time to achieve the above-mentioned such objectives:
Part A:
Construction of Six new Irrigation Schemes
 
1.
Carrying out of construction of the six new irrigation schemes in the Project 
Area listed in the Annex to this Schedule including off-farm  irrigation 
infrastructure, diversion dams, pumping stations, pressured pipes, open canals, 
control equipment, and drainage collection systems.
2.
Construction of on-farm sprinkler irrigation systems, and acquisition and 
installation of irrigation equipment, for about 28,000 hectares allocated to Small 
Farmers in the Project Area.
3.
Installation and maintenance of power lines required for the operation of 
irrigation pumps.
4.
Construction of about 1100 kilometers of service roads within the Project Area.
 
5.
Construction of offices, garages and workshops required for the administration 
of the Irrigation Districts.
Part B:
Initial Operation of the Private Irrigation Districts
 
1.
Initial staffing for planning, budgeting and coordination activities.
 
2.
(a)
Provision of agricultural training to Small Farmers.
 
(b)
Provision of agricultural extension services to Small Farmers  including 
advice on irrigated agriculture and water management.
(c)
Ad hoc technical advice to all Project Beneficiaries. 
 
(d)
Provision of marketing and export assistance to Project Beneficiaries.
 
3.
Operation and maintenance of off-farm irrigation structures and equipment 
including delivering of water to, and measuring of water consumption by, Project 
Beneficiaries.
4.
(a)
Installation of piezometers and observation wells for monitoring the 
water table and water quality.
(b)
The provision of support to SUCAM for its campaigns against water-borne 
diseases in the Project Area.
(c)
The provision of equipment and materials for the carrying out of  an 
environmental education program for Project Beneficiaries.
Part C:
Technical Assistance, Institutional Development, and Consultant Services
 
(a)
Technical assistance and strengthening of SENIR for its further  
development, including under the technical assistance program referred to in Section 
6.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement and staff training.
(b)
The development and implementation of the Monitoring System to monitor 
activities during the planning, construction and operating stages of the Project.
Page  15
(c)
Institutional development of DNOCS to strengthen its planning and  staff 
training abilities and its capability to oversee the agricultural  development phase 
of the irrigation schemes established in accordance with Part A of the Project.
(d)
Detailed engineering designs and supervision of construction and other 
works under the Project.
(e)
Detailed engineering services for the preparation of the PONTAL 
irrigation scheme in the State of Pernambuco.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Irrigation Schemes referred to in Schedule 2
Name of Irrigation Scheme, area,
and Participating State where                   Agencies in charge
Irrigation Scheme will be located             of Irrigation Scheme
1.   Formoso H (Bahia)                                    CODEVASF
     4,875 hectares
2.   Barreiras (Bahia)                                    CODEVASF
     8,725 hectares
3.   Acarau (Ceara)                                          DNOCS
     8,207 hectares
4.   Tabuleiros de Russas (Ceara)                            DNOCS
     10,500 hectares
5.   Guadalupe (Piaui)                                       DNOCS
     11,872 hectares
6.   Tabuleiros Litoraneos                                   DNOCS
     (Piaui) 7,509 hectares
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1995
through April 15, 2005
10,500,000
 
Page  16
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid  shall be the 
percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day 
of prepayment, multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account: CESA and FESA
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the  corresponding Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of, and of Schedule 1 to, 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,750,000 
Page  17
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the CESA and the FESA 
($5,500,000 equivalent in the CESA and $250,000 equivalent in the FESA respectively) 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the CESA and FESA, as 
the case may be, shall be made exclusively for Eligible  Expenditures in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and of this Schedule. The 
Central Bank, or the Account Bank, as  the case may be, shall authorize withdrawals 
from the CESA or the FESA, as the case may be, on the basis of evidence that the Bank 
shall have reasonably determined. For each such withdrawal so authorized, the Central 
Bank, or the Account Bank, as the case may be, shall debit or cause to be debited, the 
CESA or the FESA, as appropriate, with the dollar equivalent of the amount of the 
Eligible Expenditures in question in Cruzeiros, in the  case of the CESA, or the 
actual dollar amount, or the dollar equivalent, of the Eligible Expenditures in 
currencies other than dollars or Cruzeiros, in  the case of the FESA.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the CESA and the 
FESA have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the CESA or the FESA shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the corresponding amount of the Authorized Allocation, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the corresponding amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the CESA or FESA, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the CESA or FESA at such 
intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the CESA or FESA, as the 
case may be, such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been made out of the CESA 
or FESA, as the case may be, for 
Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the CESA or the FESA, as the case 
may be, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into either the CESA or the FESA:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the aggregate 
of the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding  special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the  equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan allocated to the corresponding Eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall  
Page  18
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the CESA or the 
FESA, as the case may be, as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
either the CESA or the FESA: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was  not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the CESA or the FESA, as the case may be, (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible  or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the CESA or the FESA, as the case may be, shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in either the CESA or the FESA will not be required to cover further payments for the 
corresponding Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the CESA or the FESA.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  
indicate any preference which would be granted, the information required to  establish 
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following  methods and stages 
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and 
the  Bank shall such goods 
contain components manufactured 
in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
completed goods.
 
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and other import taxes levied in  connection with the 
Page  19
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be 
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A 
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and  other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would 
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid, or (B) 15% 
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods 
supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: 
(A) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the 
goods offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the 
bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, 
or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this 
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if 
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, 
shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $29,800,000, and goods  estimated to 
cost less than the equivalent of $300,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $6,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items of office furniture and agricultural extension 
equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $40,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of  $6,000,000, may be procured on the 
basis of evaluation of price quotations  from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
with respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 or more, each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, and the first contract for works of each of DNOCS and CODEVASF and 
the first contract for goods of each of DNOCS and CODEVASF under Part C.1 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the CESA 
or the FESA, as the case may be, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) of the said Appendix shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the CESA or the  FESA, as the case may be, in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made  out of the CESA or the FESA, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower, shall 
employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose  qualifications, experience and 
Page  20
terms and conditions of employment shall be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance  with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
Section III.
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of the Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes FSRMM.
