Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3170 BR
(National Irrigation Program
Northeast Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
DO VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO
Dated April 19, 1991
 LOAN NUMBER 3170 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO 
(CODEVASF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has  agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies  equivalent to two hundred and ten 
million dollars ($210,000,000) on the  terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that CODEVASF agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CODEVASF, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to CODEVASF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS CODEVASF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the  General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CODEVASF declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this  end, shall 
carry out the portions of Parts A and B and C (d) of the Project located in the State 
of Bahia and Part C (e) of the Project located in the State of Pernambuco with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, agricultural, irrigation and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be  provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for such portions of such parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CODEVASF shall otherwise agree, CODEVASF shall carry out in 
each year the portion of the parts of the Project to be carried out by it in 
accordance with the Annual Operating Plan agreed to by CODEVASF in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
(c)
As part of the foregoing, CODEVASF shall enter into the Implementation 
Agreement with the Borrower, through MARA and DNOCS, setting out each parties 
responsibilities for the purposes of carrying out the  Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for such portion of such parts of the 
Project to be carried out by CODEVASF and to be financed out  of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. CODEVASF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the parts of the Project 
carried out by CODEVASF.
Section 2.04. CODEVASF shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement and the Implementation Agreement. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, CODEVASF shall not take or concur in any action  which  would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving  the Subsidiary Agreement or 
the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CODEVASF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank (with a copy to SENIR) with regard to progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the  Subsidiary Agreement, the 
Implementation Agreement and the Contractual  Arrangements, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CODEVASF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CODEVASF of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Implementation Agreement or the Contractual 
Arrangements.
Page  3
Section 2.06. (a) CODEVASF shall maintain the Contractual Arrangement with 
COELBA under terms and conditions previously agreed with the Bank, for the provision 
of energy required by the irrigation schemes located at Bahia under Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
CODEVASF shall enter into an agreement with SUCAM, no later than  
December 31, 1992, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
carrying out of Part B 4 (b) of the Project.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CODEVASF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, 
waiving or failing to enforce any of the agreements referred to in (a) and (b) above.
Section 2.07. CODEVASF shall implement the relevant Resettlement Plans, 
previously agreed with the Bank, in accordance with the terms therein  contained, to 
ensure the settlement of Project Beneficiaries under the Project.
Section 2.08. Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, CODEVASF shall, with 
respect to the irrigation schemes located at Bahia under Part A of the Project:
(a)
conclude selection of Project Beneficiaries no later than December 31, 
1992, or such later date as shall be agreed to by the Bank, and, on  conclusion of 
such selection, organize in each irrigation scheme, an Irrigation District, and cause 
to be maintained all such Irrigation  Districts with an organization, structure and 
functions, including a general manager and competent staff in adequate numbers, all 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;
(b)
cause each Irrigation District referred to in (a) above to sub-contract, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the  Bank, no later than 
three months after its establishment in accordance with paragraph (a) above, the 
provision of extension and marketing services to such Irrigation District, to an 
entity specialized in the provision of such services which has qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and  
(c)
cause each Irrigation District referred to in (a) above to  subcontract, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, no later than March 
31, 1993, the operation and maintenance of irrigation works to an entity specialized 
in such operation and maintenance,  which has qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.09. CODEVASF shall appoint, throughout the execution of its portion of 
the parts of the Project, a chief for its Project management unit and shall appoint 
heads of the field units for each Irrigation Scheme all with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference all acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.10. In each year, CODEVASF shall prepare an Annual Operating Plan and 
shall submit the same to SENIR by April 30 in each year, so that  SENIR may prepare a 
Consolidated Annual Operating Plan and comply with the requirements of Section 3.07 of 
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CODEVASF
Section 3.01. CODEVASF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural, irrigation and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified  and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CODEVASF shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in  accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and agricultural, irrigation and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. CODEVASF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
Page  4
appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CODEVASF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition including separate records and accounts reflecting the resources and 
expenditures in respect of the portion of the parts of the Project carried out by 
CODEVASF.
(b)
CODEVASF shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, CODEVASF shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made, receipts 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CODEVASF 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CODEVASF thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
Page  5
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For CODEVASF:
Companhia de Desenvolvimento do
Vale do Sao Francisco
Edificio Sede da CODEVASF
SGAN Q 601 Conj-I
70830 Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
CODEVASF
391-0612256 CVSF-BR
Brasilia 391-0611057 
CVSF-BR
 
with copies to:
DEAIN
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
MEFP
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K"
70040 Brasilia, D.F. Brasil 2
Telex:
61-1146
and
SENIR
Ed Sede da CODEVASF
Sqan. Q. 601 Conj 01
4o Andar
70830 Brasilia, D.F. Brasil
Telex:
61-2933
Page  6
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CODEVASF may 
be taken or executed by its President, or such other person or persons as the 
President shall designate in writing, and CODEVASF  shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ George P. Papadopoulos
Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO VALE DO
   SAO FRANCISCO
By /s/ Erasmo Jose de Almeida
 Authorized Representative
