Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15727
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2421-HO)
MAY 24, 1996
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Source: IMF)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
Year         Official     Market              Year         Official     Market
1984         2.00         1.96                1990         2.00         2.85
1985         2.00         2.20                1991         5.40         7.72
1986        2.00          2.45                1992         5.83         8.02
1987        2.00          2.84                1993         7.26         9.97
1988         2.00         2.69                1994         9.40         13.72
1989         2.00         2.85                1995         10.50        15.38
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m            =            Meter (39.37 inches)
km           =            Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
I            -            Liter (0.2642 US gallons)
lps          =            Liters per second (15.85 gallons per minute)
m 3          =            Cubic Meter (264.2 US gallons)
Ipcd         =            Liters per capita per day
ha           =            Hectare (2.471 acres)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC          Commonwealth Development Corporation
DIMA         Municipal Water Division of San Pedro Sula
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFEP         Informe Final de Ejecuci6n del Proyecto (same as PIFR)
JICA         Japanese International Cooperation Agency
PAHO         Pan American Health Organization
PIFR         DIMA's Project Implementation Final Report
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SANAA        National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service
UCPM         DIMA's Master Plan Coordinating Unit
USAID        US Agency for International Development
ZMVS         Great Metropolitan Area of the Sula Valley



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary.................................................................................................................... i
Part I        Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Project Objectives and Description .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                    .2
C.    Major Factors Influencing the Achievement of Project Objectives.         5
D.  Project Sustainability                         .5
E. Bank Performance                               .6
F. Borrower Perforance                              .7
G.  Assessment of Project Outcome                       .8
H. Future Operations                             .8
I. Key Lessons Leaned                              .8
Part II       Statistical Tables
i  Summary of Assessments .10
2   Related Bank Loans/Credits .11
3A Project Timetable .11
3B  Project Restructuring by Component .12
4      Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .13
5   Key Implementation Indicators .14
6    Key Indicators for Project Operations .16
7   Studies Included in Project .17
8A Project Costs .18
8B Project Financing .18
9   Economic Costs and Benefits .19
10  Status of Legal Covenants .20
11  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
12  Bank Resources: Missions .23
dhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|of0cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Appendixes
A.    Mission Aide-Memoire: December 8, 1995
B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR: DIMA's Project Implementation Final Report,
December 22, 1995
C.    Letters from DIMA and CDC, respectively, acknowledging receipt and review of
Implementation Completion Report
D.    IBRD Map No. 17457 (as presented in the SAR)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Supply and Drainage
Project in Honduras, for which Loan 2421-HO in the amount of US$19.6 million equivalent was
approved on May 22, 1984, the Loan Agreement signed on December 7, 1984 and made effective
July 8, 1985.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995 as compared to the original closing date of June 30,
1991. Final disbursement took place on November 28, 1995, at which time a balance of
US$1,160,292.37 was canceled. Cofinancing was provided by the Commonwealth Development
Corporation of the United Kingdom (CDC) in the equivalent amount of US$14.2 million.
The ICR was prepared by Ventura Bengoechea (Task Manager, SLGIN), Alfonso Zavala
(Consultant) and Albert Amos (Consultant) and reviewed by Martin Staab, Infrastructure Sector
Leader of the Central America Country Department. Preparation of the ICR began during the
project's final supervision mission, June 19-24, 1995, and was followed by a mission which took
place between December 4-8, 1995.
The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution, Informe Final de Ejecucidn del Proyecto (IFEP), included as Appendix B, and reviewed
the draft ICR, which it found satisfactory (Appendix C.1). CDC also reviewed the draft ICR and
found that it satisfactorily reflected the project's outcome. CDC's letter also provided a revised
figure for the equivalent US dollar amount of their disbursements, which is now reflected in this
document. (Appendix C.2)






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
i.    This project was the Bank's first water sector operation in Honduras. It was prepared in
response to a request to finance the implementation of San Pedro Sula's Water Master Plan. DIMA,
the Municipal Water Division of San Pedro Sula, was created as part of this project. The project
had a lengthy implementation period of 1 1 years, which resulted from two general disbursement
suspensions imposed upon the Borrower due to non-compliance with external debt payments
(1.01). In August 1990, the project subcomponents were revised to meet smaller actual population
figures, different urban growth patterns and larger groundwater resources, which differed from
appraisal estimates (1.06). The loan, extended on four occasions, was closed on June 30, 1995.
B.   Project Objectives
ii.    The main two project objectives were to: (i) meet water service needs by increasing water
production and storage capacity and extend water and sewerage networks to poor urban
neighborhoods; and (ii) strengthen DIMA to make it an autonomous and financially sustainable
water utility (1.02). Nearly 99% of project cost was directed toward achieving these two objectives.
The remainder of the project was directed to SANAA, the national water company, with the
objective of improving its institutional, economic and financial areas.
C.    Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   Overall project outcome is considered unsatisfactory. Although the project was successful
in installing capacity sufficient to provide continuous 24 hours/day water coverage to 96% of the
estimated population in greater San Pedro Sula through the year 2005 and DIMA is considered the
best water utility in Honduras, the project did not achieve most of its institutional objectives,
bringing into question its long-term sustainability. DIMA experienced financial difficulties due to
low tariffs, excessive unaccounted-for-water losses and the need to service a loan extended in IBRD
terms. The delayed implementation period impacted negatively on the economic rate of return,
recalculated at 9.4%. (1.18)
iv.   The project was cofinanced by the Bank and CDC with contributions from the Government
of Honduras and the Municipality of San Pedro Sula. The project was completed in 11 years, which
is an unusually long implementation period. However, without the 4 years of inactivity, resulting
from the delay in effectiveness and 2 general suspensions of loan disbursements to Honduras, the
project would have had an implementation period of about 7 years, average for projects in this



- ii -
sector. The expected closing date of June 30, 1991 was extended on four occasions with the final
project closing date taking place on June 30, 1995. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal,
including physical and price contingencies net of interest and fees was US$33.4 million. The total
project cost, including interest and fees, was estimated at US$42.3 million during appraisal.
v.    At the end of the second and last suspension of disbursements, the Bank found that the
GoH, the municipality of San Pedro Sula and DIMA were committed to completing the project.
The Bank's project team and management decided to reactivate the project despite
macroeconomic difficulties existing in Honduras. The rationale for this decision was based on
the fact that: (i) project design remained a viable mechanism to increase capacity to meet long-
term service needs, extend water and sewerage networks to poor urban neighborhoods and
complete the project's institutional objectives; and (ii) the municipality would not have access to
other sources of funding. Following this decision, the project was revised to meet smaller actual
population, different urban growth patterns and incorporate larger than expected underground
water yields from the Sunceri and Chamelec6n wells.
vi.   Without changing the objectives, key revisions made to the project components in 1990,
included: (i) incorporation of newly identified and more reliable well fields (1.06A); (ii) installation
of a larger number of primary water distribution mains, which increased subcomponent B from
20.8% to 40.2% of project cost (1.06B); (iii) extension of the secondary water and sewerage pipe
network to low income neighborhoods (1.06C); (iv) construction of 3 km of storm drainage
interceptors (subcomponent D) was incorporated into an IDB drainage project (1.06D); and (v)
elimination of the sugarcane irrigation study, since irrigation no longer was used in the identified
areas (1.06G). The revision of the DIMA component in August 1990 resulted in an 8.0% increase
in project cost, from US$42.3 million to US$45.5 million, including physical and price
contingencies as well as interest and fees (Table 8A). At the closing date, total project cost was
US$48.3 million, 6% higher than the revised project cost, which can be attributed to inflation
adjustments and delays associated with the early termination of a large civil works contract.
vii.   Although the Bank accepted arguably high population estimates, the Bank's performance
during preparation is judged to have been satisfactory as the overall project design was well-
conceived and flexible enough to allow for future adaptation to different growth patterns and
quantities of water resources. (1.12) The Bank's performance during supervision is also rated as
satisfactory due to its flexibility and responsiveness in the reactivation of the project following the
suspensions and close supervision from 1992-1995, which allowed DIMA to achieve the physical
objectives of the project (1.14). However, the efforts by the Bank's project team to improve the
institutional capacity of DIMA were impeded by excessive political interference, personnel
limitations to hire and retain good technical staff and the long implementation period.
viii.  In regard to Borrower performance, its non-compliance with external debt payments, which
prompted the two suspensions of loan disbursements, and the unsuccessful completion of the
project's institutional objectives warrant an unsatisfactory rating. (1.17) Nevertheless, DIMA's
Master Plan Coordinating Unit (UCPM), was instrumental in the successful execution of physical
works, the processing of procurement documentation and the preparation of project implementation
progress reports, while providing effective links between the Bank and DIMA. The Unit, however,



- III -
was not adequately integrated within the rest of the institution, despite the plans to do so, which
limited the achievement of the project's institutional strengthening initiatives.
D.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
ix.    The project was successful in installing capacity sufficient to provide continuous 24
hours/day water coverage to 96% of the estimated population in San Pedro Sula through the year
2005, extending service provision to low-income neighborhoods and contributing toward poverty
alleviation. The importance of this objective cannot be overstated as coverage levels in Honduras
average 60%. (1.10). Nevertheless, the project failed to develop DIMA as an institutionally and
financially independent enterprise. From 1993-1995, DIMA's net income was insufficient to cover
investment and operational costs and DIMA required financial assistance from the GoH, which
serviced its debt payments to the Bank (1 .11).
x.    To improve its financial performance, DIMA has prepared a 2-year Operational Plan (1996-
1997), intended to optimize new infrastructure, increase sustainability, provide efficient service
provision, reduce unaccounted-for-water levels, upgrade the commercial and administrative units,
improve the financial stability and raise human resources quality. The municipality of San Pedro
Sula is also considering the transformation of DIMA into an Empresa Mixta' with the participation
of the private sector, which would assist DIMA in reducing political interference, provide
management stability and improve financial performance. (1.19) Another project under
consideration is the gravity-fed Rio Lindo Regional Water System, with the participation of the
private sector, which would provide raw water to the Metropolitan Communities of the Sula Valley
(ZMVS) beyond the year 2020 as well as reduce underground water use and high pumping energy
costs.
xi.    The lessons learned from this project are the following:
(a)    political interference, frequent turnover in higher management and recruitment constraints
limit the independent operations of institutions like DIMA. These difficulties could be addressed
through a long term concession, or some other arrangement with the private sector, which permits
the agency to operate on a more business-like basis (1.21);
(b)    an automatic mechanism free from political interference needs to be established to adjust
tariffs to inflation, meet cost-recovery levels and ensure the financial sustainability of DIMA (1.22);
(c)    a competent coordinating unit is instrumental for project implementation success, but it
needs to be well integrated within the entire institution to achieve financial sustainability (1.23);
(d)    Bank project preparation missions need to be more careful in reviewing basic data and
assumptions that determine project size and scope (1.24).
An Empresa Mixta is a long-term concession with a private operator in which the municipality holds
approximately 50% of the water company's stock. The private operator is responsible for the operation and
management of the facilities and shares the cost of new capital investments with the municipality.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Part I        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.01   Background. The Water Supply and Drainage Project (2421-HO) was the first Bank
operation in the sector in Honduras, following the request by the GoH and the Municipality of San
Pedro Sula to finance improvements to its water and sewerage services recommended in its Master
Plan. Additional project objectives included the institutional strengthening of DIMA, created as a
separate administrative division within the municipality of San Pedro Sula as part of this project,
and SANAA, the national water company. The Bank signed a Loan Agreement with the Republic
of Honduras, Project Agreements with SANAA and the Municipality of San Pedro Sula, and
Memoranda of Agreement with CDC, the project cofinancier, and the Republic of France, which
supported the SANAA component. A limited number of project activities had been completed
when the Bank suspended general disbursements to Honduras in November 1987 due to non-
compliance with external debt payments. A second Bank suspension followed, which was lifted in
June 1990. CDC also suspended disbursements to the Borrower. For all practical purposes, the
project remained at a standstill from November 1987 until June 1990 and did not return to full
implementation until January 1992 when CDC resumed disbursements. In August 1990, the project
was restructured to adjust to smaller actual population growth and urban trends. Most of the
purchase of equipment and construction activities began in the second half of 1992 and were
completed by June 30, 1995. Civil works could not be fully completed by the loan's closing date
due to excessive delays by a contractor ending in the termination of its contract. The remaining
works, which amount to less than 1% of project cost, are in execution and are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1996. These works are being financed by DIMA, with the support of CDC,
which agreed to extend its participation through June 30, 1996.
A.    Project Objectives and Description
1.02  Project Objectives. For the greater San Pedro Sula area, two primary project objectives
existed: (1) meet water service needs by increasing water production and storage capacity and
extend water and sewerage networks to poor urban neighborhoods; (2) strengthen DIMA, by
improving technical operations and managerial ability, train personnel and ensure financial
sustainability.
1.03  Before the project's restructuring, the San Pedro Sula component involved the following
subcomponents: (a) Water supply improvements. Increase water production by constructing and/or
2     These works include: (i) installation of about 950 m of transmission and distribution mains; (ii) street paving,
projects; (iii) installation of roughly 20 connection points from the new mains to the old distribution network;
and (iv) installation of water pumping, disinfecting equipment, transmission mains and storage tanks



rehabilitating 25 wells and constructing 3 water chlorination stations; (b) Water transmission,
distribution and storage extensions. Rehabilitate 2 water intakes and corresponding transmission
mains and build nearly 46 km of primary distribution system, 2 booster pump stations and 2 storage
reservoirs with a combined capacity of 30,000m3; (c) Secondary water and sewerage pipes
network. Install about 15 km of secondary water distribution mains and 10 km of sewerage
collectors and provide 5,000 water and 4,000 sewerage house connections in low income areas,
repair/replace defective secondary water mains, install 25 water standpipes, and install 24,000
consumption water meters and 6 master meters; (d) Storm water drainage improvements. Build 3
km of storm drainage interceptors; (e) Leak detection and mapping of water distribution system.
Prepare water distribution maps, acquisition of leak detection equipment, establish a leak detection
program and train DIMA staff in leak detection, (f) Institutional strengthening of DIMA. Implement
an action plan for the institutional and operational commercial, financial and administrative
improvement of DIMA; and (g) Sugarcane irrigation study. Undertake study on the health and
environmental risks associated with the use of the polluted Rio Sauce waters to irrigate a sugarcane.
1.04  The SANAA institutional strengthening component, accounting for about 1% of project
cost, was only partially implemented through late 1987. This component required SANAA to: (i)
develop an action plan to improve managerial, operating, accounting and commercial procedures;
(ii) formulate financial policies for the water supply and sewerage sector at the national level; (iii)
assess national water supply and sewerage sector investment needs and priorities; (iv) prepare an
investment program to address identified investment needs and priorities; (iv) evaluate and
implement training programs for SANAA staff; and (v) implement a program to reduce water
losses in Tegucigalpa.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
1.05  Achievement of Objectives. The project objectives regarding service improvements were
substantially achieved and nearly all of the physical works have been completed. The importance of
this objective cannot be overstated as coverage levels are at 96%, compared to the average coverage
rate in Honduras which is around 60%. Nevertheless, most of the institutional strengthening
objectives were not achieved and DIMA's managerial capacity remains weak. In addition, DIMA
recorded financial deficits from 1993-1995 and required financial assistance from the GoH, which
serviced DIMA's debt payments to the Bank. The weak record of the institutional strengthening
subcomponent can be attributed to the lengthy implementation period, excessive political
interference, frequent turnover at upper management levels and recruitment constraints.
1.06  Following the 1988 national census, population figures for San Pedro Sula were drastically
revised downward, compared to the estimates listed in the SAR. Project studies also found larger
than expected underground water yields in the Sunceri and Chamelec6n wells. In August 1990, the
Bank and DIMA agreed to modify the San Pedro Sula component and these changes, introduced at
different stages of implementation, were evaluated carefully to ensure that these modifications
would better achieve the physical objectives of the project. (Table 5). These results induced
changes in the design, length and diameter of some transmission and distribution mains (Stage I)
and construction of surface water intakes, corresponding transmission mains, water storage tanks,



water pumping and chlorination stations (Stage II). A detailed assessment of what was achieved
with respect to each of the project's major components is presented below:
(a) Water supply improvements. The project has achieved the principal objectives and the
outcome is considered satisfactory. These improvements have provided more than 3.2 m3/s of safe
water supply, which will suffice beyond year 2005, and has led to the construction of 15 new and 7
rehabilitated wells.3  The purchase of leak detection and other operational and maintenance
equipment in the first 2 years of project implementation were instrumental in obtaining initial
successful results. The Sunceri and Chamelec6n wells were incorporated upon project revision;
(b) Water transmission, distribution and storage extensions and improvements. DIMA
successfully built 54 km of primary water distribution mains (more than the 46 km in the SAR,
but below the 64 km agreed after the project was restructured) and provided an additional 15,000
service connections (10,000 more than the appraisal estimate). Through a donation from the
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), DIMA is working to ensure the continuous
provision of safe water in the upper levels of the distribution system, substantially improving water
quality and reducing well water pumping costs. The water filtration treatment plant at Santa Ana
has been completed and construction at the one in Rio Piedras is ready to begin. Two new water
storage tanks, currently under construction will provide an additional 7,000m3 in water storage
capacity, which is consistent with the revised objectives established during project restructuring.
Other modifications include the elimination of a surface water intake and 2 booster-pump stations
as well as the remodeling of a surface water intake at Santa Ana;
(c) Secondary water and sewerage pipes network. The water supply transmission mains and
distribution network have been successfully extended into low-income neighborhoods. The first
beneficiaries of about 300 lps from the Sunceri well were the residents of the densely populated
areas of Cabanas, Cabanitas, Barandillas and other low-income neighborhoods who, after 20 years
of rationing or having lacked a public water system, have enjoyed continuous water supply since
April 1995. The number of residents with water services through house connections increased from
261,000 persons in 1984 (78% or 26,160 connections) to nearly 390,000 in 1995 (96% or 63,500
connections). Following the 1990-1993 restructuring of the project, the construction of 10 km of
sewerage network, 4,000 sewerage connections and the installation of 25 public water standpipes
were excluded from Bank financing. However, financial assistance provided by the IDB and
USAID and the number of total residents with sewerage coverage has increased from 160,000 in
1984 to 260,000 inhabitants with 43,000 domiciliary sewers in 1994 (64.2%);
(d) Storm water drainage improvements The installation of 3 km of storm water drainage
interceptors to reduce flooding risks to low income dwellers in marginal urban areas was eliminated
from the project, but was consolidated under an IDB financed urban sanitation project;
Four of these wells and the El Zapotal surface water production and transmission scheme, which has a
3
nominal capacity of 400 Ips, minimum average yield of 165 Ips of chlorinated water and added about I m /sec
to existing sources, were built with DIMA resources;



- 4 -
(e) Leak detection and mapping of water distribution system. The water distribution
network mapping and the leak detection and control plan, including a training program for
operational personnel, were successfully carried out in 1989. Purchase of the foreseen leak
detection and other operational and maintenance equipment in the first 2 years of project
implementation were instrumental in obtaining initial successful results. Since then, network maps
have become obsolete and the Leaks Control Section has been reduced to minimum levels. DIMA
needs to reactivate the leak detection and repairs program and reinforce the Leaks Control Section
in the Operations Division;
(f) Institutional strengthening of DMIA. The implementation of this subcomponent has been
the least successful as DIMA has been unable to achieve managerial and financial autonomy. As a
result, sustainability is uncertain and project outcome cannot be rated as being satisfactory. DIMA's
net income would have been negative in 1993-1995 if the GoH (contrary to the terms of the GoH/
Municipality Subsidiary Loan Agreement) had not serviced debt payments to the Bank. DIMA's
tariff rates are currently insufficient to meet operational and investment costs. The average tariff for
waters and sewerage services/mi3 was valued at LI.95 (US$0.10/mi3), which in real terms remained
positive, but well below  the amount (US$0.39/mi3) estimated at appraisal. An automatic
mechanism, adjusted for inflation and free from political interference, needs to be established to
ensure that tariffs recover operational and investment costs. Although DIMA has complied with
most of the financial indicators during much of the implementation period, the financial rate of
return on net fixed assets in operation at the project closing date was less than 3%, compared to the
7% mandated in the legal agreements. In addition, water metering, measured at 48% of total
connections, remains well below the expected 100% coverage rate in the SAR, but DIMA expects
this percentage to increase to 70% with the installation of an additional 9,000 meters by June 1996.
tJnaccounted-for-water also remains very high, an estimated at 56% as opposed to the 30%
predicted at appraisal.4 The number of employees/1000 water connections has been reduced from 9
at appraisal to less than 6 at the project closing date, but recent limitations in civil service salaries
and excessive interference by the municipality has resulted in the departure of several trained
personnel to the private sector;
(g) Sugarcane irrigation study. The health impact study regarding the contamination of Rio
Sauce waters became irrelevant as sugarcane plantations lands were urbanized and consequently,
the study was not undertaken;
(h) Institutional strengthening of SANAA: This component was only partially implemented
and its impact has been virtually non-existent. The elaboration of a national financial policy as well
as the preparation of a sector investment program were not implemented due to the lack of a legal
framework, which was needed to adequately incorporate these initiatives within the national sector
plan. Limited action plans were developed, focusing exclusively on water supply and sewerage
needs in Tegucigalpa, witlh the intent to: (i) improve commercial systems for water resources,
including the improvement of information systems; (ii) reduce water losses; and (iii) undertake a
DIMA estimates unaccounted-for-water at 45% in 1995. This amount is considerably lower than the estimate
by independent accountants, which placed unaccounted-for-water at 56%. This difference might be explained
by a non-revenue producing item for used water volume called "Fixed Services Billed Water/mi3" that DIMA
accountants labeled as unaccounted-for-water.



study for improving primary water distribution systems in Tegucigalpa. The overall results of these
initiatives have demonstrated to be poor as SANAA has recorded recurring financial deficits and
unaccounted for water rates were estimated at 50% in 1995. The principal achievement of this
component was the completion of the study on primary water distribution needs in Tegucigalpa,
which was incorporated within an IBD-financed project, now in the final stages of construction.
1.07  The revision of the DIMA component in August 1990 resulted in an 8.0% increase in
project cost. from US$42.3 million to US$45.5 million, including physical and price contingencies
as well as interest and fees. This revision in project scope allowed for the adequate adjustment to
smaller actual population and different urban growth patterns, optimize larger than expected water
resources and provided greater service coverage, especially in poor urban areas. At the closing date,
total project cost was US$48.3 million. 6% higher than the revised project cost, which can be
attributed to inflation adjustments and delays associated with the early termination of a large civil
works contract.
1.08  Economic Rate of Return. The ERR for this project was recalculated at 9.4%. This figure,
although lower than the 13.5% projected at appraisal, is higher than expected for a project with
such a long delay in implementation. The reasons for this are the reduced project scope that
resulted in cost savings and the fact that the delay also postponed some of the largest investment
items to the later years.
C.    Major Factors Influencing the Achievement of Project Objectives
1.09  The key factors that negatively affected the achievement of project objectives were the
disbursement suspensions, low tariff levels, political interference and the devaluation of the
national currency. The three years of inactivity due to the suspensions of disbursements to
Honduras, plus a one year initial delay in effectiveness, deferred the construction of several
physical works and impeded the attainment of institutional strengthening goals. Excessive political
interference from the municipality, which caused a high management turnover, and the lack of an
automatic mechanism to adjust tariffs rates to inflation, affected implementation of institutional
subcomponents and the recovery of costs. Finally, the continued devaluation of the Lempira
severely affected the capacity of DIMA to service loan payments which became due while the
project was still under implementation. On the positive side, the delays allowed the project team to
revise the scope of some of the subcomponents in line with the actual census figures and urban
growth patterns, and with newly identified ground water resources.
D.    Project Sustainability
1.10  At the project's closing date, DIMA's managerial independence remained weak and long
term financial sustainability appeared to be uncertain. This weak financial situation could affect the
life expectancy and appropriate operation of the physical works completed under this project by
limiting the resources available for operation and maintenance.
1.11   DIMA submitted to the Bank a very ambitious 1996-97 Operational Plan that includes: (i)
updating water and sewerage networks; (ii) digitizing maps; (iii) developing a pilot programn to



- 6 -
reduce unaccounted-for-water, especially in industrial and low income neighborhoods; (iv)
systematizing operational and maintenance routines; (v) increasing metered water production and
consumption; (vi) detecting illegal connections and updating user cadastre; (vii) modernizing
operational, commercial, financial information reporting systems; and (viii) developing an
institutional training program. Whether DIMA  can implement such a plan under present
institutional weakness remains uncertain. The project's sustainability could be increased with the
participation of the private sector through a long-term concession arrangement which would reduce
political interference and provide management stability.
E.    Bank Performance
Preparation and Appraisal
1.12   Satisfactory. Although it could be argued that the Bank used overestimated population
figures, at the time this was the only data available until the 1988 census was completed. However,
the overall project design was well-conceived and adaptable to different growth patterns and more
abundant water resources. For this reason the Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal
was judged to be satisfactory. The unsuccessful completion of the project's institutional objectives
was largely due to the long implementation period and excessive political interference, rather than a
defect in project design.
Supervision
1.13   Satisfactory. A total of 125.4 staff week were devoted toward the supervision of this
project or an average amount of 11.9 staff weeks per year, which is considered reasonable
considering the long implementation and the two suspensions of disbursements.
1.14   By the end of the most recent suspension of disbursements, the Bank found that the GoH,
the municipality of San Pedro Sula and DIMA were committed to reactivating the project.5 The
municipality, which had little to do with the suspension, was interested in completing the
proposed physical works and increasing water service coverage to poor urban areas. the Bank's
project team and management decided to reactivate the project despite macroeconomic
difficulties existing in Honduras. The rationale for this decision was based on the fact that: (i)
project design remained a viable mechanism to install sufficient capacity to meet long-term
service needs, extend water and sewerage networks to poor urban neighborhoods and complete the
project's institutional objectives; and (ii) the municipality would not have access to other sources
of funding. Following this decision, the water supply, water distribution and secondary network
subcomponents (A-C) were restructured to meet actual population and urban growth trends. In
reactivating the project, the Bank demonstrated remarkable flexibility and responsiveness toward
a committed client experiencing difficult circumstances. The Bank also assisted the Borrower in
expediting procurement, advising on operational issues during supervision missions and providing
Only one project in Honduras, the Municipal Development Pilot Project, was canceled after the suspension
of disbursements was lifted. That project's physical works were effectively halted as other donors offered
a similar loan under softer terms.



TA to improve institutional capacity and financial management. At the closing date, the project
succeeded in achieving the identified physical objectives. However, despite the significant effort by
the Bank's project team to improve the institutional capacity of DIMA, these activities were not
sufficient to counteract excessive political interference, the long implementation period and
macroeconomic instability.
F.    Borrower Performance
Implementation
1.15  Unsatisfactory. The implementation of the loan was severely impeded by the two
suspensions in loan disbursements that occurred from 1987-1990 as a result of Borrower non-
compliance with external debt payments, including default on payments to the Bank and CDC.
Without the occurrence of these suspensions and the one year delay in effectiveness, project
implementation period would have likely been closer to the seven year average for projects in this
sector. The SANAA project component, which accounted to only 1% of the project cost, was only
partially completed due in part to a lack of political will and the lack of resources in spite of the
support received through a grant from the Government of France.
1.16 The municipality of San Pedro Sula and DIMA, as the implementing agency, were highly
responsive and collaborated satisfactorily with the responsible financing institutions in the
execution of the project's physical works. The creation of the Master Plan Coordinating Unit
(UCPM) in 1992 was instrumental in the successful revision of project design and led to the
successful implementation of the project's physical objectives. The UCPM was extremely efficient
in preparing the terms of reference for consultants, executing procurement procedures for goods
and services, monitoring consultant and construction contracts as well as administering Bank and
CDC loans. Although the UCPM reported directly to DIMA's General Manager and was staffed
with well qualified technical and financial personnel, it was not sufficiently integrated within the
institution, which limited the adequate achievement of institutional strengthening objectives.
1.17  Although experienced institutional and financial management consultants were hired to
provide technical assistance, DIMA was affected by the continued absence of a Financial Manager
in the last 4 years of implementation. DIMA was deprived of a critical element in adopting
financial policies to overcome liquidity problems and was hindered in the preparation of financial
reports. Supervision missions were at times provided with incomplete and inconsistent financial
data, which differed from monitoring indicators supplied by UCPM. In general, DIMA had
constant difficulties in hiring and retaining competent managerial staff due to the inability to offer
competitive salaries and career development prospects. The IFEP attributes the personnel and
liquidity problems to a lack of autonomy and political interference at upper decision-making level.
Discontinuity at the upper managerial levels has also been a negative factor for project
implementation as the General Manager was changed five times between 1990-1993.



- 8 -
G.   Assessment of Project Outcome
1.18  Unsatisfactory. Although the project was successful in installing sufficient capacity to
provide continuous 24-hour water coverage to 96% of the population through 2005 and extending
water service coverage to almost 100% of low income neighborhoods in San Pedro Sula, the
project cannot receive a satisfactory rating as most of the institutional strengthening and financial
objectives were not attained bringing into question the long-term sustainability of the project.
DIMA, in spite of being considered the best water utility in Honduras, has encountered financial
difficulties due to low tariffs and unaccounted for water losses, experienced a great deal of turnover
in upper management levels and is susceptible to political interference by the municipality. The
recalculated ERR for the project (9.4%) is below the SAR projections mainly as a result of the
limited political will in increasing tariff levels to reflect real economic costs.
H.    Future Operations
1.19  Water supply in San Pedro Sula appears to be secured through the year 2005. However, the
dependency of its water system on a costly and often unreliable electric power service, has
prompted DIMA to look into the feasibility of a surface gravity water supply system, the Rio Lindo
Regional Water System.6 At a cost of approximately US$85.0 million, this proposed project would
serve gravity fed raw water to the Metropolitan Communities of the Sula Valley, including the San
Pedro Sula area. Project feasibility is still subject to further technical and financial considerations
and DIMA is looking with interest at the possibility of utilizing private sector participation under a
BOT scheme. In regard to wastewater, DIMA, with the financial support from the IDB, has
prepared final engineering designs for the extension of the sewerage network and the construction
of sewage interceptors, storm water drainage and wastewater treatment plants to meet service needs
until year 2010. Additional studies on the impact of upstream pollution on the Chamelec6n and
Sunceri wells will be undertaken by the recently created Water Resources Management Division.
The municipality of San Pedro Sula has also indicated interest in a long term arrangement between
DIMA and a private sector operator. Such an arrangement would provide long term sustainability
to DIMA and hence a subcomponent to assist in the preparation of a concession contract has been
included as part of the proposed IDA/JIDB Water Sector Technical Assistance Loan, currently under
preparation.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
1.20  The key lessons learned from the implementation of the Water Supply and Drainage Project
in Honduras are the following:
1.21   Tle Needfor Independent Management. While the need for DIMA's independence was
recognized by Bank Staff from its inception and during project implementation, frequent changes in
management, difficulties in recruiting high level technical and financial staff due to low wages and
numerous interventions by the Municipal Board were key factors that weakened the ability of
DIMA to act as an autonomous institution and achieve financial sustainability. Greater
In dry seasons, 70% to 80% of water used is pumped from wells.



- 9 -
independence for DIMA may be achieved if the Municipality's plans for long term concessioning
with the private sector are implemented.
1.22 Impact of Country Macroeconomic Problems on Project. Project implementation under a
deteriorating macroeconomic environment is very difficult. Higher than projected inflation rates
and currency devaluation represent a great challenge to maintain tariff levels in real terms and avoid
a financial crisis. Inappropriate pricing policies will inevitably lead to decapitalization, inability
to hire and retain qualified personnel and inadequate maintenance which will eventually increase
the vulnerability of the system. An automatic and transparent tariff adjustment mechanism,
insulated from political interference, needs to be developed to guarantee that water utilities
maintain their financial viability under such conditions.
1.23  Need for an Integrated Project Coordinating Unit. A competent and organized project
coordinating unit is a key element in successful project implementation, e.g. procurement and
execution of physical works. DIMA's unit, established by the direct contracting of consultants by
the Bank, was very efficient and diligent. However, the unit interacted exclusively with the General
Manager, and hence was not adequately integrated with the rest of the institution. As a result, the
institution was not strengthened with the presence of these high level professionals who were
dismissed when the loan was closed.
1.24 Need for Careful Review of Project Sizing. The extended implementation of this project
provided a unique opportunity to compare population projections to actual numbers obtained from
the 1988 Census. As a result, it was determined that population projections available at appraisal
were highly overestimated, which affected practically all design parameters and project cost. In this
case, more reliable figures became available at the propitious moment to revise the size and design
of the physical works and still achieve the expected water coverage levels. Even though alternative
population estimates were not available at the time of appraisal, this problem highlights the need to
carefully review the basic data and assumptions which determine project size and scope.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
PART II STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives Substantial    Partial   Negligible  Not applicable
Macro policies                                            I F  F:       m
Sector policies                            LI                          L I
Financial objectives          L            L                           1Z 0
Institutional development     LI             I           x               I
Physical objectives            mI                       L              LI
Poverty reduction              mI                       L              L I
Gender issues                   I            I          LI              m
Other social objectives       EL             I            I nn
Environmental objectives      |                         L FI          L-I
Public sector management      L            LI                          LI  m
Private sector development    LI           LI          E                x
Other (specify)               LI           L nI mx
B. Project sustainability   liklvl             Unlikely           Uncertain
xIIC
C. Bank erfornance    Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                    C]                  m                    L
Preparation assistance            LI                  m                   L
Appraisal                                              IE                  LI
Supervision                       L                  EI 
D. Borrower Performance   Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactor             Deficient
Preparation                        LI                 E                    L
Implementation                    L                                         XI
Covenant compliance               El                  D
Operation                          L                                       LIE
Highly                                    HIY
E. Assessment of outcome    satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
LI          LI                          LI 



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                      Purpose                        Year of    Status
l_________________________________________________ .A pproval        l
Preceding operations                        N/A                            N/A       N/A
Following operations                                                                       l
1. Municipal          (1) TA to strengthen municipal financial management;  1985    Closed
Development Pilot     (2) Credits for pilot investment in 4 municipalities; and
Project (L2583-HO)    (3) pre-investment fund for feasibility studies
Table 3A: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                  Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              N/A                     6/83
Preparation
Appraisal                                               6/83                    6/83
Negotiations                                           1/9/84                  3/12/84
Board presentation                                     5/1/84                  5/22/84
Signing                                                 9/84                   12/7/84
Effectiveness                                           9/84                   7/8/85
Project Restructuring                                   N/A                     8/90
Loan Closing                                          6/30/91                  6/30/95



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 3B: Project Restructuring by Component
Component            Estimated At Appraisal      Restructured in August 1990   Modified in 1992 and 1994
A. Water Supply   Construction of 18 wells      15 wells constructed
Improvements
Rehabilitation of 7 wells     7 wells rehabilitated'
Construction of 3 Chlorination   Construction of 3 chlorination
stations                      stations.
TA to evaluate acquifer       Chamelec6n and Sunceri wells
capacity and design deep wells  incorporated into project.
B. Water          Rehabilitation of 2 water     Rehabilitation of 2 water
Transmission,     intakes and transmission mains   intakes and transmission mains
Distribution and                                were remodeled.
Storage
Construction of 46 km of      Construction of 64 km of      Construction of 54 km of
primary water distribution    primary water distribution    primary water distribution
mains                         mains.                        mains
Construction of 2 booster-pump   Eliminated from project.
stations
Construction of 2 distribution  Eliminated construction of the    Reduced to four tanks with
storage reservoirs with total  tank at Sunceri (13,200m3)   7,000m3 capacity.
capacity of 30,000 m3         Added construction of storage
tank at Santa Ana (1,800m3))
C. Secondary      Construction of 15 km of      Construction of 18 km of       Construction of 27.5 km of
Water and         secondary water distribution  secondary water distribution   secondary water distribution
Sewerage          mains.                        mains
Networks and
Service           Construction of 10 km of      Eliminated from project
Connection        secondary sewerage connections
in low income areas.
Repair or replacement of      Eliminated from project
defective secondary water
distribution mains.
Install 25 standpipes         Eliminated from project
Install 5000 water service    15,000 water service
connections                   connections
Install 4000 sewerage service    Eliminated from the project.
connections
Install 24,000 meters and 6   Install 24,000 meters and 52
master meters                 master meters.
D. Storm water   Construction of 3 km of a      Eliminated from the project but
Drainage          storm water drainage          completed under IBD financing
l __________________    interceptor                                           ____  .



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 3B: Project Restructuring by Component (Cont'd)
Component             Estimate at Appraisal      Restructuring in August 1990   Modified in 1992 and 1994
E. Leak           Acquisition and utilization of    Completed before project
Detection and     leak detection equipment      restructuring
Mapping of
Distribution      Provision of technical assistance  Completed before project
System            to prepare water distribution  restructuring.
maps, to set up a leak detection
program and train DIMA staff
in leak detection.
F. Institutional    Institutional improvement of  Institutional improvement of
and Operational   DIMA through TA provision.    DIMA through TA provision.
Improvement of   Acquisition and utilization of    Acquisition and utilization of
DIMA              operation and maintenance     operation and maintenance
equipment for water supply,   equipment for water supply,
sewerage, drainage.           sewerage, drainage.
G. Sugarcane      Preparation of a study on health  Study became irrelevant as
Irrigation Study    hazards resulting from the use   sugarcane lands were urbanized.
for sugarcane irrigation for Rio
Sauce polluted waters.
H. SANAA          Develop Action plan to improve  Completed before project
Strengthening     management, operations,      restructuring.
accounting and commercial
procedures. Formulation of
Financial policies for the
national water supply and
sewerage sector. Assessment
by SANAA of national water
supply and sewerage investment
needs. Evaluation and
implementation of SANAA's
training program. Preparation
and implementation of program
to reduce water losses in
Tegucigalpa. Preparation of
investment project to address
infrastructure needs
Table 4: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ millions)
FY 85      FY 86      FY 87      FY 88      FY 89      FY 90
Appraisal estimate          0.7         4.5        7.8       11.4        14.7       17.2
Actual                      0.0         1.2        4.7        6.6        8.1        8.8
Actual as % of estimate    0.0%        27%        60%        58%        55%        51%
Date of final disbursement                                                        11/28/95
FY 91      FY 92      FY 93      FY 94      FY 95      FY 96
Appraisal estimate          19.6       N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A         N/A
Actual                      9.8        10.5       11.5       13.1        16.3       18.3
Actual as % of estimate     50%        N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A         N/A
Date of final disbursement                                                        11/28/95



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 5: Key Implementation Indicators
1. Key implementation              Estimated At Appraisal              Estimated At Project Restructuring                        Actual
indicators in the SAR                                                           (August 1990)
A. Water Supply           Construction of 18 wells                   Construction of 15 wells                 15 wells constructed
Improvements
Rehabilitation of 7 wells                  No change                                7 wells rehabilitated'
Construction of 3 Chlorination stations    No change                                3 chlorination stations are under construction
Provision of TA to evaluate acquifer capacity  Incorporation of the Chamelec6n and  Provision of TA to evaluate acquifer capacity and
and design deep wells                      Sunceri wells into project               design deep wells and Chamelec6n and Sunceri
wells have been incorporated
B. Water                  Rehabilitation of 2 water intakes and      Remodeled the rehabilitation of 2 water  Expected to be completed by June 1996
Transmission,             transmission mains                         intakes and transmission mains
Distribution and
Storage                   Construction of 46 km of primary water     Increased to construction of 64 km of    54 km of primary water distribution mains
distribution mains                         primary water distribution mains and 21  constructed
km of pumping lines
Construction of 2 booster-pump stations
Eliminated upon project restructuring.   N/A
Construction of 2 distribution storage
reservoirs with total capacity of 30,000 m3  Modified upon project restructuring were    Completed construction of four storage tanks
reduced to the construction of four storage   with 7000m3 capacity
tanks with 7000m3 capacity
C. Secondary Water    Construction of 15 km of secondary water       Construction of 18 km of secondary water   Built 27.5 km of secondary water distribution
and Sewerage              distribution mains.                        distribution mains                       mains
Networks and Service
Connection                Construction of 10 km of secondary sewerage   Eliminated from the project           N/A
connections in low income areas.
Repair or replacement of defective secondary   Eliminated from the project          N/A
water distribution mains.
Installation of 25 standpipes              Eliminated from the project              N/A
Increased to 15000 water service
Installation of 5000 water service connections   connections                        15000 water service connections
Installation of 4000 sewerage service      Eliminated from the project, but will be  N/A
connections                                completed with IBD Financing
27,500 meters had been acquired, but only
Installation of 24,000 meters and 6 master  No change                               18,195 have been installed. The remainder
meters                                                                              are expected to be installed by June 1996
1.   4 additional wells and a new surface water production and transmission scheme were built using DIMA resources.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 5: Key Implementation Indicators
I. Key implementation               Estimated At Appraisal               Estimated At Project Restructuring
indicators in the SAR                                                             (August 1990)                                 Actual
D. Storm water             Construction of 3 km of a storm water      Although component was eliminated from    N/A
Drainage                   drainage interceptor                      the project, 3.2 km were completed under
Improvements                                                         IBD financing
E. Leak Detection and   Acquisition and utilization of leak detection    No change                              Acquired leak detection equipment
Mapping of                 equipment
Distribution                                                                                                    Provided TA to prepare water distribution
System                     Provision of technical assistance to prepare  No change                              maps, set up leak detection program and train
water distribution maps, to set up a leak                                            DIMA staff. Network maps have become
detection program and train D1MA staff in                                            obsolete and the Leaks Control Section has been
leak detection.                                                                      reduced to minimum levels.
F. Institutional and       Institutional improvement of DIMA through    No change                               Tariff rates are insufficient to meet obligations.
Operational                TA provision.                                                                        DIMA's net income would have been negative in
Improvement                                                                                                      1994 and 1995 if the GoH had not serviced debt
of DIMA                                                                                                         payments to the Bank.
Acquisition and utilization by DIMA of     No change                                 In execution
operation and maintenance equipment for
water supply, sewerage, drainage.
G. Sugarcane               Preparation of a study on health hazards   The health impact study regarding the     N/A
Irrigation Study           resulting from the use for sugarcane       contamination of Rio Sauce waters becane
irrigation for Rio Sauce polluted waters  irrelevant as sugarcane lands were urbanized
H. SANAA                   Develop Action plan to improve             No change                                 Completed
Institutional              management, operations, accounting and
Strengthening              commercial procedures
Formulation of Financial policies for the  No change                                 Not implemented
national water supply and sewerage sector
Assessment by SANAA of national water      No change                                 Not implemented
supply and sewerage investment needs and
preparation of investment projects to address
identified needs
Evaluation and implementation of SANAA's   No change                                 Completed
training program
Preparation and implementation of program  No change                                 Plan developed and being implemented under
to reduce water losses in Tegucigalpa                                               IBB financing.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
L. Key implementation indicators in                  Estimated                                             Actual
the SAR                                      (Project closing date 6130191)                      (Project Closing Date 6130195)
A. Water Supply Improvements   Volume Water Produced: 31.3 million m- /yr            Water Produced: 41.3 million m' /yr
Volume Water Sold: 21.9 million m3/yr               Water Sold: 22.8 million m3/yr
B. Water Transmission,           Water Produced/Capita: 145 lpd                      Water Produced/Capita: 497 Ipd
Distribution and Storage     Water Consumption/Connection: 44.0 m3 /mo.          Water Consumption/Connection 47.3 m /mo.
l___________________________  Water Consumption: 21.9 million m3 /yr                 Water Consumption: 36.0 million m3 /yr
C. Secondary Water and           Total Population: 500,000                           Total Population: 405,000
Sewerage Networks and        Residents with Water Connections: 415,000           Residents with Water Connections: 390,000
Service Connection           Water Connections: 41,500                           Water Connections: 63,500
Inhabitants/Water Connection: 10                   Inhabitants/Connection: 6.1
Water Coverage: 83%                                 Water coverage: 96.3%
Residents with Sewerage Connections: 340,000        Residents with Sewerage Connections: 260,000
Sewer Connections: 34,000                           Sewer Connections: 43,000
Inhabitants/Sewerage Connection: 10                Inhabitants/Sewerage Connection: 6.0
l________________________________  Sewerage Coverage: 68%                            Sewerage Coverage: 64.5%
D. Storm water Drainage          N/A                                                 N/A
Improvements
E. Leak Detection and Mapping   N/A                                                  N/A
of Distribution System
F. Institutional and Operational   Avg. tariff water and sewerage services': US$0.39/m'  Avg. tariff water and sewerage services': US$0.10/m'
Improvement of DIMA           Unaccounted for water: 30%                          Unaccounted for water: 56%
Meter Coverage: 100%                                Meter Coverage: 48%
Total Employees: 373                                Total Employees: 385
Employees/1000 Connections: 9                       Employees/1000 Connections: 6
Month Sales in Accounts Receivable: 3               Month Sales in Accounts Receivable: 5
Average Revenues m3 Sold: 0.80                      Average Revenues m3Sold: 1.21
Operating Ratio: 66.0%                              Operating Ratio: 49.7%
Debt Service Ratio: 1.82                            Debt Service Ratio: 4.73
Rate of Return: 7%                                  Rate of Return: 3%
% Contribution to Investment: 23.0%                 % Contribution to Investment: 29.7%
G. Sugarcane Irrigation Study    N/A                                                 Study became irrelevant as lands were urbanized.
H. SANAA Strengthening           N/A                                                 N/A
1.  In 1984 prices



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as derined at           Status                Impact of study
appraisal redefined
Sugarcane irrigation study   Evaluate health hazards   The study was not    This study was made irrelevant
associated with usage of     undertaken.          as sugarcane lands were
polluted Rio Sauce waters for                     urbanized
sugarcane irrigation and plan
of action to alleviate hazards
Water Resources           Evaluate acquifer resources  100% Disbursed       Rational usage of acquifer
resources. Led to incorporation
of Sunceri and Chamelec6n
wells into the project.
Leak Detection Program    Detection and remove leaks   100% Disbursed       Reduced leaks
Mapping of Distribution    Update distribution system  100% Disbursed       Updated distribution system,
System                                                                      but maps have become obsolete
Tariff Review             Design Tariff Structure     I100% Disbursed       Improve technical
understanding of tariff
structure, but tariff remains
under cost-recovery levels.
Hydraulic Review          Evaluate the primarv         100% Disbursed       Revision of project design to
distribution network                              better meet water needs and
optimize resources.
Meter Procurement        Obtain accurate meter         100% Disbursed       Improved bidding process
readings
Bidding Documents        Assist in procurement process   100% Disbursed     Elaborated bidding documents
Works Planning            Provide TA in administration    100% Disbursed    Project works executed
and coordination of project
works
Administration           Improve project               I 00% Disbursed      Some administrative
administration                                    improvements.
Inventory                Improve management of         100% Disbursed       Improved inventory procedures
warehouses
Job Titles and Salaries   Evaluate classification ofjob    100% Disbursed   Improved personnel policies
titles and review salary
structure
Water Treatment Plants    Prepare contract             100% Disbursed       Assisted operation of "turnkey"
water treatment plants
Chamelec6n-Sunceri        Design of pumping            100% Disbursed       Completed designs and wells in
Wells                    connections to wells                               operation
Stage I Designs          Elaborate Stage I designs and    I 00% Disbursed   Most works completed, some to
elaborate budget for works                        finished by June 1996.
Stage II Designs          Elaborate Stage 11 designs   100% Disbursed       Most works completed some to
be finished by June 1996.
DIMA Financial Analysis   Delineate financial projectionls  100% Disbursed  Improved decision-making and
for DIMA                                          planning, but still subject to
political interference. Tariffs
l_ .____________________________   ______________________  below     cost-recovery   levels.



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 8A: Project Costs'
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Revised Estimate     Actual (US$M)
April 1984             August 1990            June 1995
Item                 Local     Foreign    Total         Total"      Local  Foreign   Total
costs      costs                               costs   costs
San Pedro Sula Component           85.1                 2133          302         ILA      2L9     383
A. Water Supply                  2.6        3.3        5.9          4.3         3.0      2.1     5.1
B. Water Distribution            3.6        5.2       8.8          18.3         4.9     16.2    21.1
C. Water & Sanit. Network        0.7        1.6       2.3           2.5         1.1      1.9     3.0
D. Storm/Drainage                0.7        0.3        1.0          0.2         0.2      0.0     0.2
E. Maps/Leak Detection           0.4        1.3        1.7          1.4         1.0      0.4      1.4
F. Inst. Strengthening           0.2        3.4       3.6          4.2          1.2      6.3     7.5
G. Sugarcane Irrigation Study    0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0      0.0     0.0
H. SANAA Component               0.1        0.7       0.8          0.4          0.0      0.4     0.4
Physical Contingencies           0.8        1.5       2.3          2.0          0.0      0.0     0.0
Price Contingencies             2.8        4.2        7.0          2.8         0.4      0.0      0.4
Subtotal (Net of Interest/Fees)    11.9       21.5      33.4          36.1        11.8    27.3    39.1
Interest/Fees                    0.0        8.9       8.9          9.4          0.0      9.2     9.2
TOTAL                              11.9       30.4      42.3          45.5        11.8    36.5    48.3
1.  Based primarily on disbursement and cost sharing data
2.  Estimate project costs in local and foreign currency are not available for this period.
Table 8B: Project Financing'
Source            Appraisal estimate     Project Restructuring   Actual estimate (US$M)
|___ _ _  (US$M)          Estimate (US$M)      l
IBRD                              19.6                    19.6                     18.5
CDC                               11.0                    16.3                     14.2
Norwegian Grant                   0.3                     0.3                      0.3
French Grant (DREE)               0.5                     0.5                      0.5
DIMA                              10.8                    8.8                      14.8
SANAA                             0.1                     0.0                      0.0
TOTAL                             42.3                    45.             ___ 48_3         _    |
1.  Based on cost sharing data.



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal:                     13.5%
The Economic Rate of Return at the completion of the project:       9.4%
The same assumptions listed in the SAR were used to calculate the ERR for the implementation completion
report, which included:
(i)  increased consumption over 1983 consumption is attributed to the project;
(ii)   benefits estimated from tariff and connection fee revenues and users' contribution to investments;
(iii) TA costs not included, and
(iv)  investment costs were calculated using this methodology: (a) 100% of all water related project
expenditures and 60% equipment; (b) well rehabilitation is assumed every 10 years at 40% of original cost
and equipment at 100%. This assumption has been relaxed as the well rehabilitation sub-component was
restructured; (c) Consulting costs for leak detection and construction supervision, 100%; (d) cost of
secondary networks and connections not included.
The revised analysis incorporated the delays in implementation and changes in scope and costs of project
components.



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Cove   Present   Original     Revised             Description of covenant
nant   Status   fulfillment  fulfillment                                                  Comments
Type              date         date
Municipal    2.02 (a)     10       C                    06/95     Employ consultants to assist in project  Contracts are in execution
Project                                                           implementation.
Agreement
2.02 (b)     10      CP      2/28/95       6/95     Employ consultants to serve as DIMA's (1)    Contracts are in execution
manager of finance and accounting; (ii)
Manager of engineering and operations
2.05(b)(i)    9      C                     6/92     Maintain records and procedures to record
and monitor DIMA's subprojects
2.05(b)(iii)    9    C                     6/95     Furnish to the Bank at regular intervals, not
less frequent that semi-annually, information
regarding DIMA sub-project
2.05(d)       9       C      12/31/91      6/95      After completion of DIMA's subproject, not   Sent IFEP on 6/95
later than six months after closing date,
furnish to the Bank a Project Completion
Report.                                                              l
2.10          5      CP      6/30/95       6/95      Update DIMA's record of private wells and    60% of the private firms paid.
strengthen its registration and fee collection    Collection impaired by lack of
procedures.                             legal authority, which is being
addressed by the Sector Law
to be submitted to Congress
2.11(a)       5       C      2/28/85       6/92      Submit to the Bank a cost recovery
mechanism for drainage services
2.11(b)       2      NC      11/30/85      6/92      The ratio of DIMA's accounts receivable  The ratio of DIMA's accounts
month's sales should not exceed 4 in 1987,    receivable is at 5.0 at closing
3.3 in 1986 and 3.0 in 1987 and thereafter  date
2.13(a)       2      CD      2/28/95       6/92      Furnish to the Bank revised water charge
policy for unmetered consumption
2.13(b)      10      CP      6/30/85       6/92      Implement water charge policy referred to in  Water tariffs remain below
Section 2.13                             cost recovery levels
2.14(a)       9      NC      12/31/87      6/92      Prepare study referred to in part G of the  Study became irrelevant as
Project                                  sugarcane lands were urbanized
2.15(a)      10      CP      12/31/85      6/94      Prepare plan of actions for billing and  Municipality is in the process of
collection of civil works and goods of Part C   billing and collecting
of the Project
2.15(b)      10      CP      6/30/86       6/94      Implement plan of action referred to in  Municipality is in the process of
Section 2.15(a)                          billing and collecting



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Cove   Present   Original    Revised             Description of covenant
nant   Status   fulfillment  fulfillment                                                  Comments
Type              date         date
Municipal   2.16(a)       9      CD       6/30/85       6/92     Furnish to the Bank a study on DIMA's
Project                                                         recruitment and personnel policies
Agreement
2.16(b)      10       C      12/31/85      6/92      Implement plan of action referred to Section
2.16(c)
2.16(c)       9       C       6/30/85      6/94      Furnish to the Bank, DIMA's manpower     DIMA has reduced the # of
requirements and training needs          employees/1000 connections,
but has had difficulties in hiring
and recaining key mgmt staff
2.16(d)       10      C       9/30/85      6/92      Implement referred to in Section 2.16(c)
2.16(e)       10      C       3/31/85      6/92      Employ data processing staff for DIMA
2.16(f)      10       C       2/28/85      6/92      Employ human resources manager for DIMA
2.17(a)       10      C       2/28/85      6/92      Reorganize DIMA in accordance with the
Acuerdo Municipal                                                    l
2.17(b)       9       C       2/28/85      6/92      Furnish to the Bank starting balance sheet for
DIMA
2.18(a)       9       C       2/28/85      6/92      Submit to the Bank a plan for settlement of
bills the MC owes DIMA
2.18(b)       10      C       6/30/85      6/92      Carry out a plan referred to in Section
2.18(a)
2.18(c)       10      C       6/30/85      6/92      Municipality will pay current bills for water   Water rates deducted from elec.
supply, sewerage and drainage services   bills paid by the municipality.
2.18(d)      10    SOON       3/31/85      6/93      Install meters to measure municipal       18,195 installed with an
consumption                              additional 9,000 meters to be
installed by June 1996
4.01(a)       10      C     continuous      6/93     Separate accounts reflecting expenditures of
the Loan Account will be maintained
4.01(b)       9       C        6/90         6/96     Records of separate accounts reflecting
expenditures of the Loan Account will be
retained, until one year after the Closing
Date.
4.02(a)     1,2,9    CD                     6/94     Furnish to the Bank audited financial     Last audit report submitted on
statements for DIMA annually.            April 21, 1995
4.02 d)     1,2,9    CD                    12/94     Furnish to the Bank financial statements of    Last audit report submitted on
the Municipality for each fiscal year, not  April 21, 1995
later than four months after the end of year.



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Cove   Present   Original       Revised               Description of covenant
nant   Status   fulfillment   fulfillment                                                        Comments
Type                date         date
Municipal    4.03(b)         9       NC       4/30/85        6/94      Review adequacy of tariff structure and rates   Tariff rates do not meet
Project                                                                annually.                                    economic costs or inflation
Agreement                 __l
4.04(a)        2       NC                      6/92      Ensure that MC's total revenues are          DIMA's net income would have
sufficient to cover the sum of total expenses.   been negative in 1993-1995 if
debt service requirements and capital       the GoH had not serviced debt
l_____                _        __________  expenditures not financed by borrowings.      payments to the Bank.
4.04(b)        9        C                      N/A       Submit semi-annually to the Bank five-year
forecast of MC's revenues and expenses.
4.05           9        C                      N/A       Incur no new debt for DIMA unless its net
revenues to debt service requirement is 1.5
or greater.
4.06           9        C                      N/A       Not undertake for DIMA any capital
expenditures in excess of US1.0 million
l_____                        ___________  annually without the approval of the Bank.
4.07           9        C       12/31/85       N/A       Revalue annually DIMA's net fixed assets.
4.08(a)        9        C       6/30/86        6/92      Furnish to the Bank, an evaluation of DIMA
insurance requirements.
4.08(b)        10       C       6/30/85        6/92      Put into effect insurance program referred to
in Section 4.08(a).
Key
Covenant Types:
I Acountslaudit                                              8 Indigenous people
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  9 Monitoring, review and reporting
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                      10 Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 Counterpart funding                                        11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 Management aspects of the project or executing agency      12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 Environmental covenants                                    13 Other
7 Involuntary resettlement
Status:
C                    = complied with
CD after delay       = complied with delay
NC                   = not complied with
SOON                 = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP                   = complied with partially



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2421-HO)
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs1
Stage of                  Planned                               Actual
project cycle        Weeks           US$               Weeks                   US$
Through appraisal        N/A            N/A                N/A                    N/A
Appraisal - Board        N/A            N/A                12.0                 36,000
Board - effectiveness     N/A            N/A                 7.0                  15,000
Supervision           N/A            N/A               125.4                 376,200
Completion            N/A            N/A                5.2                  15,600
TOTAL               N/A            N/A                130.4                442,800
1.   Due to the inordinately long period for project implementation, precise staff inputs for appraisal to supervision are not available. The
following data reflects estimates based on confirmed project missions
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
___________                                            Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/  Number of  Days in   Specialized         Implemen-    Development        Types of
project cycle    year     persons      field     staff skills    tation status   impact         problems
Through         N/A         N/A        N/A     N/A                 N/A            N/A
appraisal
Appraisal to    6/83         2          20     FNA; EGR            N/A            N/A
Board           1/84         1          2      FNA
3/84         1          4      FNA
5/84        2           7      FNA; EGR
Board to        9/84         3          5      FNA; EGR            N/A            N/A
effectiveness                                  Loan Officer
2/85        2          10      FNA; EGR           N/A             N/A
Supervision     10/85        1          5      EGR                 N/A            N/A
7/86         2          2      FNA; EGR           N/A             N/A
10/86        2          5      FNA; EGR
5//87       N/A        N/A     N/A
8/87         1          5     N/A                 N/A             N/A
11/87        1          10     N/A                  2               1
6/88       N/A        N/A      N/A                  2              2         Disbursements
suspended
3/89        2           7      FNA; EGR             2              2         Disbursements
10/89      N/A         N/A     N/A                  3               2        suspended.
5/90         3          4      FNA; 2 EGR           3              2         Disbursements
8/90         1         10      EGR                                           suspended
5/91         1          4      EGR                  2              2
1/92        2          4      FNA; EGR              2              2
11/92        2          3      FNA; EGR             2               2
2/93         2          5      FNA; EGR             2              2
7/93        2           2      FNA; EGR             2              2
3/94        2           3      FNA; EGR             2              2
7/94         2          4      FNA/EGR              2              2
__________    4/95           2           3     FNA; EGR              S              S
Completion      6/95         2          5      FNA; EGR             S               S
12/95        1          1      EGR                  S               S
12/95        1          5      FNA; EGR             S               S
FNA = Financial Analyst; EGR = Engineer



Appendix A
HONDURAS
WA TER SUPPL YAND DRAINAGE PROJECT (Loan 2421-HO)
Supervision Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission integrated by Ventura Bengoechea and Alfonso Zavala visited
San Pedro Sula during December 4-8, 19951. The main objective of the mission was to
supervise the progress made on the preparation of the Informe Final de Ejecucion del Proyecto
(IFEP), the borrower's project completion report, following the loan closing on June 30, 1995.
A second objective was to review the progress made on the completion of the last works being
financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), who agreed to extend its loan
until June 30, 1996, and by DIMA. Following are the mission's main findings and conclusions.
IFEP Preparation
2.    DIMA presented to the mission a draft of the IFEP, with its corresponding technical and
financial annexes. The document appeared to be very complete and it will be presented to the
General Manager shortly for his final review. DIMA agreed to send the final document to the
Bank not later than December 22, 1995. The IFEP will be included as part of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the project.
3.    DIMA also presented to the mission a draft of the Operations Plan which will be
submitted as an annex to the IFEP. The mission reviewed the document and suggested that
DIMA expands the scope of the document to include more practical recommendations regarding
water resources management, especially as it refers to the water supply, distribution, metering,
billing and reduction of unaccounted for water.
Progress of Physical Works
4.    The project is nearly completed. The only works not yet completed are the storage tanks
of phase II now under construction and the completion of a few activities which resulted from the
cancellation of the contract with Cartellone, which were contracted as indicated on paras. 8 and
9. All these works are expected to be completed by the end of March 1996.
5.    Following is a summary of the progress made on each of the components of Phase II:
(a)   Purchase of DI pipe and accessories for the Rio Piedras y Santa Ana systems (100%
completed);
1 Ventura Bengoechea joined the mission the last two days.



2
(b)   Purchase of pumps and chlorination equipment for the Chamelec6n and Sunceri Wells
(70% completed);
(c)   Construction of intake works and installation of the transmission mains (80% completed);
(d)   Construction of pump stations (100% completed); and
(e)   Construction of circular reinforced concrete storage reservoirs (40% completed).
6.    DIMA informed that the surface intake of "El Zapotal", with a potential of 400 lps (and a
safe yield of 165 lps), had been completed with their own funds and the Santa Ana WTP,
financed with a Japanese Grant was well very advance. DIMA also informed that its General
Manager and the Mayor of San Pedro Sula where that week in Japan to sign the second grant
agreement for the construction of the Rio Piedras WTP. Once these two projects are in operation
and with the works financed by the project, San Pedro Sula will have a good quality supply of
water with a safe yield of 3,200 lps. These resources will be sufficient to supply the City of San
Pedro Sula through the year 2005 under the actual population projections.
Bidding of Remaining Works
7.    DIMA informed about the bidding of the works remaining from the original contract with
Cartellone which are summarized below:
8.    Licitaci6n Puiblica DI-015/95, awarded on November 23, 1995 to Nacional de Ingenieros
for L697,456.37, includes the following:
(i)   Line to El Payaso Tank (300m x 450mm 0)
(ii)   Lower Network / Pipe No.28 (350m x 400mm 0)
(iii)  Santa Ana main (300m x 450mm 0).
9.    Licitacion Piiblica DI-016/95, tentatively awarded to CONTEC for L2,162,300.00, now
in the process of being ratified, includes:
(i)    Reconstruction of pavements
(ii)   Rehabilitation of sidewalks, curbs, drainage troughs, land escaping and cleaning.
(iii)  Completion of pipe interconnections, cleaning and disinfection.
Project Cost and Financing of the Current Works



3
10.   The total cost of the works still pending, as of September 30, 1995, was L39.2 millions
(Annex 1) which will be financed with funds from CDC (about L30 millions) and DIMA's own
funds. As of this date, the total cost of works in process is estimated at US$1,100,000.
11.   The total project cost, based upon the preliminary data contained in the IFEP, is estimated
to be around US$48.5 millions. From the preliminary data in the IFEP too, it is estimated that
the project cost increased by 18% compared to its original cost.
Disbursements
12.   The Bank granted DIMA a four month grace period to submit disbursement requests after
the June 30, 1995 loan closing date. This period is over and the mission was informed that a
balance of US$1,150,000 would remain undisbursed of the original US$19.6 million loan.
DIMA's Operational and Financial Management
13.   DIMA's financial projections show a positive net cash flow for 1995 thanks to the
assistance of the Central Government with the debt service. If DIMA assumes the debt service
payments in the future, as established in the loan agreement, the financial projections would
show a deficit unless operational revenues are increased. The mission recommended DIMA to
revise its current tariff structure which is not adequate to deter high volume consumption. This
tariff study shall be done in connection with the financial projections to study the impact of new
rates under different demand elasticity scenarios
14.   DIMA informed the mission about their intention to contract services such as meter
reading, billing and collection and operational maintenance with the private sector. The mission
recommended to DIMA that consistent with the conversations in Washington in April 1995 and
with the sector reforms being proposed by the Central Government, consideration should be
given to a long term concession with the private sector. The mission considers this a unique
opportunity to begin this process because: (i) the possibility of tapping TA funds from the
proposed Water and Sanitation Sector T echnical Assistance Credit to prepare the concession
studies and documents; (ii) the need to increase the efficiency to improve the services without
significantly increasing water rates; and (iii) investment needs to implement the wastewater
treatment and environmental protection facilities planned with an estimated cost of US$50
millions. The mission expressed its concern that if the services are contracted individually, they
may not get the efficiency gains desired which they could obtain from an integral concession
with a proven private sector operating company.
Compliance with Loan Covenants
15.   The mission found DIMA in compliance with all except: 2.05 (b) (iii) of the Project
Agreement with the Municipality related to the submittal of the Semiannual Report which is



4
past due; 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement related to the Subsidiary Agreement between the GoH
and the Municipality for DIMA' s repayment of the debt o the Central Government; and 3.16 (a)
of the Loan Agreement which refers to the study on the personnel and training needs that never
took place because of the limitations imposed by the Civil Service laws. In relation to the
semiannual report for the period ended June 30, 1995, DIMA agreed to submit it not later than
December 22, 1995. In relation to servicing the debt DIMA will have to increase operational
revenues and reduce costs as discussed earlier (Para. 13).
San Pedro Sula, Honduras
December 8, 1995
DIMA::                                     World Bank
Lic. Guillermo Gale,                       Ing. Ventura Bengoechea
Acting General Manager                            Task Manager
(TRANSLA TED FROM ORIGINAL DOCUMENT IN SPANISH)






Appendix B
MUNICIPAL WATER DIVISION
San Pedro Sula, Cortes
FINAL PROJECT EXECUTION REPORT
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan No. 2421-HO
August 1995
(Translatedfrom its original version in Spanish)



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IAD              Intenational Development Agency
MASPS            Metropolitan Area of San Pedro Sula
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
CDC              Commonwealth development Corporation
DIMA             Divisi6n Municipal de Aguas
DSA              Direccion de Saneamiento Ambiental
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
INA              Instituto Nacional Agrarian
LCB              National Competitive Bidding
MSP              Ministry of Public Health
MSPS             Municipaliaty of San Pedro Sula
PAHO             Panamerican Health Organization
SANAA            National Autonomous Service of Acueductos and
Alcantarillados
SECPLAN          Secretary of Plannification



Brief of the Project Execution
1 -The Government of Honduras, as of December 7, 1984, signed the Loan Agreement
2421 -HO with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and
as of January 2, 1985, the Loan L255801-02 with the Commnonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), to cofinance the Water Supply and Sewerage Project for the city of
San Pedro Sula. The termination of the project was scheduled for December 31, 1990,
which, for causes outside of DIMA's control, was prolonged, in the component of IBRD,
until June 30, 1995 and on the CDC, until June 30, 1996. The Project was implemented
in two periods, the first comprehended the 1985-1990 period and the second one
comprehended in between the period of 1993-1996, with an intermnediate period of
reactivation from 1990 to 1992. The Project comprehends extensions and improvements
of the now existent systems of drinkable water and sewerage existent, and includes a
component for institutional development.
2. 1985-1989 Period During this period, in the drinking water component, the following
works, goods and services were bid and awarded: a) Perforation of Wells, b) Network
Construction, c) Distribution and Conduction, d) Supply of piping, valves and accessories
and e) Design and Supervision of the Storage Tanks. In reference to the component of
Institutional Strengthening, the following was awarded: a) Mapping of water distribution
system, b) Exploration and evaluation of groundwater, c) Supervision of the Project, d)
Detection and Control of water leaks and e) All of the Consultancies necessary for the
Institutional Strengthening of DIMA. Of all the above, only the construction of wells and
the Institutional Strengthening were implemented during this period. In this period CDC
and IBRD, for mora in the payment of the Government external debt, suspended as of
November of 1987 disbursements to the on-going loans, continuing with the
implementation of the Project in a limited form with their own funds. See Semestral
doc., ISJ95, Annex No. 7 of Apendix A. (June 30, 95).
3. 1990-1993 Period During this period, the government negotiated the adjustment of
the external debt with the credit organisms, reaching the reactivation of disbursements of
the World Bank in the first semester of 1991 and with CDC on January 22, 1992.
Previous to the negotiations to reactivate, DIMA updated the Project, adapting it to the
new sources of groundwater in Sunceri and Chamelec6n, that modified, with the approval
of the IBRD, the inital considerations of the SAR. The actualization divided the job into
two stages whose final design was done through direct contracting of Professional
Services of two independent consulting firms for the distribution network and the
transmission lines from the Chamalec6n and Sunceri wells, respectively, that constituted
the works of the First Stage. (Fig. No. 1).
4. In December of 1992 it was contracted, directly, the Professional Services of a
National Consulting firm, to complete the works of Stage 1, consisting of: a)
Construction Blueprints, b) Determination of quantities and cost estimate, and c) soil
investigations and identification of existing infrastructure. At the same time, DIMA: i)
Renegotiated and actualized the acquisition of Ductil Iron Piping and Accessories, ii)
Elaborated the ICB Documents for the acquisition of the pipe for the Secondary Network
and the construction of the Stage 1, and iii) Elaborated the documents for the preparation
of the Final Designs, selection of Supervision of the Project and Documents for the



aquisition of Goods and Services for the Stage II of the Project. See Fig. No. 1 and 2
(Storage tanks, pump stations, intakes, tranmission lines and water treatment plants)
5. 1994-1996 Period. The construction works for the First and Second Stages of the
Project were contracted during this period. As of June 30, 1995, there is a 97% advance
in the execution of the First Stage and a 30% in the works of the second Stage. The
chronological detail of the contracts can be seen in Annex No. 2 of Appendix A. ISJ95.
Summary of the Project description and its objectives.
6. In the Loan Agreement with the Bank, the Project is divided into two components:
The first and bigger, is the Improvements to the Systems of Drinking Water and
Sewerage of the city of San Pedro Sula, that includes a Technical Assistance component
for the Institutional Strengthening of DIMA and the second one , a Technical Assistance
to SANAA to support the formulation of a solid financial policy at a national level in the
water sector, implementation of the recommendations considered necessary to improve
its financial and operational management and to improve the planning at a national level.
7. The objectives of the Project contained in the Staff Appraisal Report included: a) to
make DIMA a technically strong institution and financially independent through the
strengthening of its administration, b) To eliminate the water shortage that affects the
majority of the population of San Pedro Sula through the expansion of the drinking water
system, c) To provide the water service to the growing population of the urban area of
San Pedro Sula, estimated to reach 625.000 inhabitants in 1994, by expanding the
distribution network, d) to provide with drinking water and sewerage connections to the
poor population of lower income neighborhoods and e) To reduce the floodings (that
affect the population of low income) by expanding the drainage of storm waters system
(See Fig. No. 3)
8. Due to delays in its execution and the findings of the evaluation of the source of
ground water, the original conception of the project, its objectives and costs were
modified with the purpose of actualize and adequate it to the financial circumstances.
Highlights of the program of actualization include: i) In 1990, are excluded the
components of Drainage and the Study of Risk in the Watering of the Sugar Cane with
wastewater. This same year, DIMA presents to the Bank the modifications to the original
design such as: a) Incorporation of the wells fields of Sunceri and Chamelec6n, b)
Incorporation of the Sunceri and Chamelec6n tranmission lines, c) Modification of the
storage volumes and d) Separation of the distribution network by pressure zones
controled by tanks instead of pressure regulating valves.
9. The Reductions on the Project costs is made through the elimination of some
components of the system, which not only affect its objectives but make its execution
feasible, taking place as described: The first one in 1990, in the components B and E,
thus: In Component B the length of the tubing in the intermediate network is reduced in
5 Km and in Component E they are substituted for the updating of the blueprints
pending network mapping, the field restitution of the photogrametric works with DIMA's
personnel. The second one in 1992, as result of the scope revision done by Mena and
Manucci of the design parameters and is used in the dimensioning of the Drinking Waters
System, that modify the components A and B of the Project, thus: Component A: a) of 6



wells built in Chamelec6n and 4 en Sunceri, the number of well to operate was reduced to
6 (4 and 2 respectively) and b) As a consequence of the previous, the acquisition of
equipment and construction of civil work was reduced in the same amount; in the
Compoent B: Reduction of the diameters of the pumping tubing, b) Reduction of
11.8Km of tubing, by elimination of tubes in the distribution circuits of the Alta, Media y
Baja networks. The third one and the last one in 1994, together with the Supervision
Mission of the World Bank, that suppress some of the works of the physical work of the
stage II of the project, in Component B, thus: a) Santa Ana Intake b) Conducting Line
of Santa Ana, c) Tanks Santa Ana II and III, d) Line to tanks Santa Anall-Santa Ana III,
e) Line of Distribution Santa Ana III to lower areas and f) Lines and Pump Stations of the
Mesetas-Rio de Piedras-Presentaci6n Centeno. See Table No. 1.
Analysis of the Project Objectives
10. The objective to eliminate the shortage and to guarantee the water supply to the
population of San Pedro Sula will be reached in January 1996 with its completion, date
on which the city will count with lm3/s additional of water for a total capacity of
production of .3.2 m3/s and with only 63,390 connctions. The SAR overstimated the
urban population of San Pedro Sula in 1994 when indicated 625,000 inhabitants, when in
reality the census of 1988 and its projection to the year 1995 show an estimate of 400,000
inhabitants for which the capacity of production will exceed the demand of the year 2010
(table No. 2). Actually, with the incorporation of the wells of Sunceri, of the aqueduct El
Zapotal and new wells perforated by DIMA, the supply in the lower areas was improved
immediately, specially in the area of Cabafias, Cabafiitas and Barandillas who during the
last 20 years received rationed service. Putting into service the distribution networks has
improved the capacity of transport of the system and therefore its handling. The horizon
of the benefits further than the year 2000 obtained in the continuity of the service, in the
medium and high areas, will be reduced with the elimination of the stations and the
pressure lines of Las Mesetas, Rio Piedras-Prestaci6n Centeno. To secure its continuity
and consequent benefits, DIMA has planned its construction in a near future. (Future
Operations, P6g. No.9).
1 1. The objective in providing severs for the collection of wastewater to the
population of lower income and to sanitize the channels that cross the populated
urban area in the component for Drainage of wastewater, are reached with the
culmination of the sanitary works of the Project of Drainage and Urban Ways financed
with funds of Loan No. 849 SF-HO of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and
with funds of the loan of IDA No.522HG-008, of the International Development Agency
that benefits 15 colonies through the improvements to the water systems and to 27 with
sanitary drainage totaling a population of approximately 80 thousand inhabitants (See
Aide Memoire of April, 87). The completion of the works of the component storm
waters included into the IDB loan, mitigates partially the effect of the floodings over the
population urban-marginal.
12. The objective of the institutional improvement is reached partially, with the
significant strengthening of DIMA during the period of 1985-1989, falling later due to
the lack of adequate personnel policies, high management turnover and the politicization
of the company. Evidence of this improvement are the indicators of Annex 10, of



Appendix A of ISJ95. To recuperate from the institutional deterioration and to optimize
the good use of the benefits of the Project and to comply with the compromise of the
Aide Memoire of June, 95, DIMA elaborated an Operational Action Plan, taken forward
to consideration of the General Manager in August of 1995, the plan includes actions that
will strengthen the Management of the Company. (See Appendix B).
13. In the period 1985-1995, the objective to make DIMA a financially independent
Institution is reached as shown by the estates of the results of those periods. From 1996
DIMA will be financially affected by two factors, fundamentally; the service payments to
current loans and the currency devaluation. To comply with the contractual compromise
DIMA will execute an action plan based on the recommendations of the Financial
Consultants. (See Appendix C. Financial Projections).
14. Component G of the Project was considered unnecessary, therefore, eliminated, since
in a short term the use of wastewaters to water the sugar cane will be suppressed as result
of the sanitary works in process.
15. The objective of the water quality, will be reached in a 95% with the termination of
the treatment plants financed with funds from a donation from the government of Japan
and of the Government of Honduras, at present in process of construction and with the
completion of the chlorination stations financed with funds from the loan, which are in
process of bidding and the completion of works is been programmed for April 1996.
16. On the other hand, the coverage objectives of more than 96% are met, however, the
ones on reduction to 30% of unaccounted-for-water, are instead estimated to be around
45%. The Operational Plan contains especific actions for its reduction. It is worth to
mention how difficult was to comply with this objective before the completion of the
Project, due to the difficulty of implementing the metering programs in an aqueduct
running dry and with components of the project not finished. The initial results of this
effort, if the necessary resources for the implementation of the Operational Plan are
assigned, will be felt by the end of 1996. With the project have been acquired 27,500
water meters of which 18,195 have been installed by September of 1995, estimating that
the rest will be installed before June of 1996 for a coverage of the 63% in micrometering.
17. Even if the reductions to the components of the Project reduced the horizon of the
revised physical benefits, projected to the year 2010, these ones were superior to the
estimated benefits in the SAR that only reached to the year 1994.
Original Cost and Financing. (Including 8.9 millions of interests and commissions)
18. The original cost of the Project of Drinking Water and Drainage was estimated in
US$1.0 (US$32.6 millions of the SPS component) financially distributed as follows:
US$19.0 millions from World Bank, US$11.0 millions (LE. 9.1 millions) of the CDC,
US$10.7 millions by DIMA and US$300 thousand from a donation of the Norwegian
Government. The original closing date of the IBRD Loan was December 31, of 1990.
This date was extended into four (4) opportunities, fixing as last date June 30, 1995,
giving four additional months to justify the disbursements ( In the case of CDC the
original closing date of the loan is extended until June 30, 1996).
19. Into the original estimate of costs were excluded works for an amount of US$5.9
millions (See table No.3). The distribution of the Project costs by component to June 30,
1995, are shown in Annex No. 2 of the Appendix A.ISJ95.



20. the costs to the end of the Project are estimated in US$48.5 millions (US$38.3
millions of component of SPS), seven millions on top of the original budget, but which
present value is almost the same than the estimated one in the SAR). This breach was
covered by DIMA with a contribution of the Government of Honduras of US$4.8
millions, amount assigned and paid inside the General Budget of the Republic.
Assuming an increase of the construction cost in US$ of the 4% annual in the period of
1990-1995, the resulting value of the investment,minus the excluded, will reach US$32.5
millions or a real increase in the order of the 18% (38.3/32.5).
21. The increase on the cost in the construction works of the First Stage, due to an
scaling, was of approximately 11 % of the value in Lempiras of the contract. In the works
of the Second Stage, is estimated an 8%.
22. The costs of the budgets basis contracts of Design and of Supervision of works of
the Second Stage, were underestimated in the revision of 1992 (See table of the Annex
No. 6 of Appendix A, ISJ95), due to the consideration of the idea to use a contracting
model sustained in base of individual consultants that reduced substantially the general
expenditures, social benefits and utilities. In the case of the construction works of the
First Stage, the analysis of unit costs of construction in 1993 the direct costs were
underestimated, similar situation exist for the construction costs of the Second Stage.
Project Benefits:
23. With the Project completion, the population of San Pedro Sula and the DIMA, will
achieve improvements in the amount, quality of the drinking water and service, full
coverage, improvements in the management and increased earnings.
24. The growth on the supply and conduction of the system capacity will benefit
immediately the actual population of 390,000 inhabitants comprehended into the area of
the Project. This will represent an increase of the 77% to the 96% of the population that
will receive drinking water at their homes (equivalent to 180,000 inhabitants) in a period
of 7 years (88-95). In a special manner and in a immediate form, the population of the
area of Cabanas, Cabanitas, Barandillas, etc., with the incorporation on April of 1995, of
the field of wells of Sunceri, warranting a 24 hours continuous supply, in contrast with
the 3 hours average in the last years. To the horizon of the year 2010 the population
benefited in the area of the Project will be of the 460,000 inhabitants (Mena and
Mannucci, Design Parameters Revision, SPS, Feb-92).
25. With the increase in the supply from Im3/S by the end of 1995, DIMA will achieve
an immediate improvement of the service in a quantity and quality by warranting the
continuous 24 hours delivery to the population of the San Pedro Sula comprehended into
the area of the Project.
26. On the other hand, with the desinfection stations the bacteriological quality of the
water will be improved, these ones are complemented with the water treatment plants
donated by the Government of Japan and the Government of Honduras, works with which
the 95% of the water produced will be treated.
27. The operation and maintenance of the system will improve significantly with the
implementation of the Operational Plan, which comprehends technical assistance,



equipment, elaboration of blueprints of the Sub-systems and the works of detection,
control and reduction of leaks.
28. As result of the coverage extension, continuity of the service and of the technical
assistance to the conmmercial system, the operational deposits will be strengthened
growing from Lps 11.4 millions in 1990 to Lps. 38.9 millions in 1996. To the date the
operational deposits cover the costs of operation, administration, commercial,
depreciation, service to the debt and the investment.
29. From the social point of view, the project has a positive impact over the population
of low income to by incorporating an population of 80,000 inhabitants of the marginal
zones and incrementing the coverage and the supply (IDA Loan 522 HG-008 Paragraph
11).
30. The macro and micrometering component, will permit to implement immediately a
program for reduction of unacounted-for-water, with the following benefits in the
commercial and operational area. This program will warrant that the benefits of the
Project reach the horizon of design, throughout actions oriented to a better management
an a rational use of water by the users, which will not be attained under the acting
patterns of consumption.
31. With the incorporation of the investment in the Project of 506.0 Millions of Lempiras
strengthen significantly the financial structure of DIMA. The obligations in relation to
the internal rate of return of 10.8 and the 2.3 limit of monthly revenues as accounts
receivable
Execution:
32. DIMA executes the Project through a Coordination Unit, which leans on the existent
organization, under a matrix organization. This unit is responsible for planning,
controlling and integrating the different activities to be realized by the functional areas in
reference to designs, supplies, construction and supervision. (See Appendix D).
33. The acquisition of the goods and services of the Project, in the components financed
with WB funds and CDC, follow the proceedings and rules of the Bank and the ones
financed with counterpart funds follow the Honduran Law for Contracting.
34. The contracting of goods and services is done through the four big groups, namely:
1) Supervision Contract, 2) Design Contract, 3) Contracts for Construction of Works and
4) Supply Contracts. The Annex No. 8 of the Appendix A, ISJ95, presents the list of all
the contracts, contracting formats, costs and dates of termination.
35. During its execution, the Project faced problems, which extended it duration and
modified the reach of the original work, the following must be highlighted
1. Institutional factors. Inside the institutional factors that had a significant
influence, we have: a) The politicization of the enterprise, that weakens the
organization of their patterns and limits the administrative capacity of the General
Management, b) Lacks the experience in the internal administration of DIMA in
the handling of Investment Projects financed with external funds, c) Lacks the
flexibility to contribute the counterpart funds conveniently an d) Changes in
personnel responsible for the Project.



2. External factors The most important ones associated with the project are: a)
During the period 1985-1990, macroeconomic factors the oblige the Government
of the Republic to not pay the external debt and as a consequence, suspension of
disbursements to the approved loans. b) Part of the contribution in Sterling
pounds from CDC were exchanged to Lempiras by the Government of Honduras
at the time of renegotiation of the debt of the Government of Honduras with said
organisms resulting in a decrease of the real value of the contribution of CDC, c)
the inflation associated with the monetary loss of the Lempira against the dollar,
incremented the initial costs with similar consequences to the prior literal.
3. Contractors and Consultants Actions In general the contractual relationship
with the pros ders of goods and services was satisfactory. Nevertheless, we
should highlight the inconveniences caused by the resolution of the construction
contract No. 001/94 of the First Stage, of March 28, 1995 (See Aide Memoires of
Feb. 95 and April 95), result of the inappropriate administration of the contract on
the construction enterprise side, with the consequent problems of contract
liquidation in the closing operations and termination of construction works.
4. Other factors The opposition of the users to the installation of the meters in
areas without supplies, the delay in the incorporation of the new sources of supply
prevent a program implementation of micrometering and delay the execution of
contractual obligations on coverage and reduction of water not accounted.
Sustainability
37. To warranty sustainability of the institutional and construction benefits contained in
the Project objectives, the Government created by Legislative Decree no. 15-48 of
February 16, 1984, the Municipal Division of Waters and under the Bank's Loan
Agreement it was established, amongst others, a component of Institutional Strengthening
for DIMA.
38. The institutional component reach significant accomplishments in the period of
1985-1990; from this period the accomplishments reached have been reduced as a result
of the personnel escape, deterioration of equipment, tools and loss of momentum of the
network cadasters.
39. To overcome and warranty future sustainable actions will be necessary to
implement: i) Healthy salarial politics, ii) Politics for timely renewal of equipment, iii)
Intensive training program in the operational area, iv) The Operational Plan.
40. The financial health of the institution only could be warranted if there are established
mechanisms that would allow to overcome the financial load generated by the debt
service, the devaluation of the Lempira and the inflationary process, that could demand a
raise in the tariffs to levels higher than the willingness to pay of the user.
41. DIMA's administration has been affected by political factors, example of the prior is
the General Administration which in the last five years has experimented five changes
(See Institutional Analyses. Hazen and Sawyer-Saybe and Associates. April 95)
42. To overcome the prior problems, the Government of the Republic develops together
with the financial institutions the State Modernization Program, inside of which is



fortified, amongst others, the Municipal Management in the Water and Sanitation, this
program has foreseen technical assistance for the aspects related with the participation of
the private sector in the reorganization of DIMA.
Comments to the Actions of the financial Institutions
43. The Project has been financed with funds from the World Band (WB), the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the Government of Honduras. it
must be mentioned that the support given by this institutions has been determininLg o
overcome the problems iose during the execution of the Project.
44. The positive action of the WB in the assignment of technical assistance in additio n to
the one contemplated in the SAR and the Loan Agreement, allowed the Ieactivating and
the conditioning for execution. Another aspect to mention is the extension of the ioan
closing date, which ones were extended in four occasions to warranty the disposability of
the resources of the loan. The opportune interventions of the supervision missions and of
the staff responsible for the same, contributed to set mechanisms to face the problems of
operational character.
45. CDC accepted to renegotiate de debt with the Government of Honduras, which
allowed the continuation ot the Project and facilitated the necessary actions to contract
goods and services and gave the necessary extensions to be able to warranty the
disbursements and timely disposition of the funds.
46. The Government of Honduras backed the Project and it participation was deciseive
for its conclusion, by assuming the responsibility to guarantee the executive body, by
including the Project in the renegotiation of the debt and in the assignment of additonlal
resources no available to DIMA and the municipality.
47. Without the participation of the IDB and IDA, which covered the financial costs of
the components eliminated from the loan by the existing financial restrictions, the
objectives of the Project would only be reached partially. In this sense, the IDB finances
the component of Sewerage and Storm waters and the IDA finances these same
components for the marginal areas, plus an important component of the distribution of
waters in those areas.
48. The Government of Japan provides financial support to the improvement, expansion
and treatment of the superficial system of water of Santa Ana and the construction of the
tank Santa Ana II, complemented the effort of the Bank, CDC and the Government of
Honduras, warranted a better quality of water for the population of San Pedro Sula.
49. The actual conditions of amortization of the loans. that associated to the exchange
losses impose a strong financial load on the institution, as well as indicated b the
financial projections. To date there has not been defined anv mechanism that would
allow DIMA to face the problem, through ways alternate to the tariff.
Future Operations
50. DIMA's future operations are enclosed into four big working areas, being: a)
Institutional Strengthening, b) Drinking Water, c) Sanitary Sewerage and d)
Environment. The level of implementation of the prior components vary from an idea



level to projects ready for bidding. The table No. 4 groups the totality of future
operations of the institution.
51. institutional Strengthening The development and perfecting of the Plan of
Operations elaborated by DIMA, will allow to strengthen the Sustainability of the
benefits obtained with the implementation of the works for the Water and Sewerage
Project and includes actions oriented towards: improvement of the management in the
Commercial and Administrative System. Another priority aspect are the works related to
the Water Not Accounted Reduction. that in the present reaches a 459%o and which
reduction will improve substantially DIMA's finances and the operation and
maintenance of the system.
52. Drinking Water The horizon of the design for the year 2010 (revised in March
' 92) will be reached when the works of the Master Plan that were not executed with the
iresources of the loans, for reasons named before, will be realized. Inside these
componenits the weather stations are of special importance and the pressure mains of Las
Mesetas Rio Piedras-Presentacion Centeno, that allow to cover the deficit generated by
the stations variation in the production of the sources of Rio Piedras and Santa Ana and
which during the winter time allow the reduction of pumping time by taking advantage
of the high performance of the superficial sources. The rest of the works must be
executed in the next four years to warranty the benefits of the Project to the year 2010.
53. By the high energy costs and the existing potential deficit in it supply, DIMA
contemplates the construction of a Regional Aqueduct of Rio Lindo (See fig. No. 4), with
preliminary estimates of investment in the order of the US$85 millions. This project,
whose conception is orientecd to warranty a gravity supply to the AMVS, under a
concessionaire program to the private sector interested, it is of special importance due to
its economic and management advantages and by being framed into the new politics of
modernization of the estate. PIMA, in the Mission of April, 1995, to Washington,
brought to the consideration of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the study of
technical feasibility of this project. With its implementation the associated municipalities
associated to ZMVS could give exclusive dedication to the service contribution, with
substantial reduction of the produ4ion cost. To the date they have manifested their
interest to participate in its execution: Pont Mousson of France, Ingenieros Civiles
Asociados the Mexico and specialized Spanish enterprises. During this Mission was
discussed among the parties with the intervention of IFC and WB, the possibility of
participation of the private initiative in the management of the services of provision of
drinking water, sewerage and improvement of the Environment in the area of the project
integration.
54. Wtastewater Treatment Under the terms of the Loan agreement IDB 849/SF-HO,
DIMA counts with the Final Designs of Collectors and Treatment Plant, necessary to
above the increment of discharge of the wastewaters resulting form the increase in it
supply of drinking water, that by the end of the year 2010 is projected into 2,810 L/s.
The total estimate of this works is of US$50 millions, having started the appropriate
financing measures.
55. Ihe_Environment With the recent creation of the Directorate of Hidryc Resources,
whom is responsible for the control of the spills and management of the water producing
basins, DIMA considers important to deepen into the studies of Impact of the discharges



of wastewaters of the city into the river Chamelecon, likewise the necessary studies to
determine the potential risks of contamination of the acquifers that supply the city with
the water form the population that actually is located on above of them.
Findings
56. During the execution of the Project were found the following findings:
1. The inflationary service, the debt and devaluation service and the relatively low value
of the tariff put in danger the financial independence of DIMA.
2. The benefits obtained with the Project in continuity and quantity can be affected in
the future due to the 70 percent of the supply of the city is done by pumping, which
associated to the high energy costs and the existing supply deficit
3. As result of the accelerated growth of San Pedro Sula and of its neighbor
communities, DIMA will be obliged to modify its organization to take advantage of
its economy of scale to facilitate services to this vecinities. Exists a consensus of this
project in the vecinities associated with the ZMVS.
4. The experience obtained from the application of the matricial organization in the
execution of the Project, even if positive, establish the necessity for future operations
where to apply this model of project execution, where to effect actions of training of
the personnel of the institution to warrant a participation effective and where to
integrate to the organizational structure of DIMA.
5. To warranty the Sustainability of the benefits of the Project, will be necessary an
effort Ex Post that will allow to recover or strengthen institutional achievements
actually debilitated, like: a) The unit of control of scapes, b) The training program for
the personnel of DIMA, c) the renewal of equipment and d) the cadaster of network
and registration of users.
6. The incorporation of the Project, its complexity operational and of maintenance,
oblige DIMA to: i) The development, perfecting and implementation of the Plan of
Operations, ii) A Program of Selection of Personnel and Training guiared essentially
to improve the operation and maintenance of the different components of the system.



OBJETIVOS. METAS V .-ULTADO0                                                                                          CUADRO No. 1
Proyecto de Agua y Drenaje
Prestamo 2421-HO
COM^PONEONTES                           OBJETIVOS                                   METAS                                    RESULTADOOS1                                           COMENTA8tiOS
:K..XOM        K.                                             M                              :-:.: s wS:..X
A  tAeloias al Surmnmstro de agua potable  Elimanar la escacez de agua que afecta  Construccion de 18 pozos                    Construldos 15                          El concepto original de suministro se moddiic  Como resultado de la eva
a la mayoria de la poblac.dn de S P S    Rehabiitaci6n de 7 pozos                   Rehabitiados 7                          luacedn del acutero. se incorporan Ios campos de pozos de Claarmelecon y
Constiucci6n de 3 estacones de cloracion     A construir 2                           Sunceri
Obtener intorme de evaluacion de acuifeto
B  Meloras a( sistema de conduccn. d,s-    Gacantizar ef suministro de agua a la    Retabiitar Obras de Toma 2                 Rehabilitadas 2                         La capacidad ociosa permite garanlizar el serwico aun elminmando
tribucion y alniacenaje                poblaci6n de S P S hasta el alo 1994   Construlr lInea cond Rio de Piedras 1 03 km   No hay moddicaci6n/En elecucron         componentes
Construli linea cond Santa Ana 1 56 km        Se posteiga su elecucon                 La oplimizaCion de la operacion requlcie de las esntcaones y ineus tde
Construir redes primaris  46 km               Construldos 54 -                        reobombeo
Construir estacones de bombeo 2 (booster)     Se posterga elecuctin                   El almacenale es sitfconte al ano 2000
Construir lanques de almaceje 2 (30 ml m3)    Se cambia capacidad 5675 m3
Se agregan 2 llneas de rebombeo
C  Meloras a la Red Secundaisa e inslala-    Praveer de servicos a la poblacOn de   Construe R S para agua potable 15 knm      Construldos 27 5 km-                    Con londos del Piesbrno 2421 HO y del Proyeclu AID 522 fIr,0u8 nose a l1,
cdon de miicroniedrdores               batos rogresos                        Construir llaves pibllcas 25                   Se eliminan                             red Bo Marginados (beneliciados 11.500 en A P y 22.200 e.i A I1 I
Instalar nuevas conexiones 5000               Se han lnstalado 15 rnil                superando nietas originales
Remplazar Red Secundaria detectuosa           Se susttuye tuente tfoanciera           Micromedicion en pioceso de instalaceon, macroniedidores licrananse
Instalar 24000 meddores                       Sc mantiene la meta
Instalar 6 macromedodores                     Se instalartn en 12 tanquen y 6 pozos
E  Mapco y delecciarn de tIgas del Sisle  Actualria, planos de tos sistenras    Dbbular los napas actuatizados del snstema de    Se elaboran tos planos de los sisteemas    El programa se desarrolla en el perlodo 1985 1990
inia de Agiia Polataie                 Capacrtai personial en servwco para   A P de la ciudad (mncluye A N y A Pluvial)     Ptometer elabora el Progiama de         Se cumplen las ielas pefo no se logia su sosreiil:,wl1ao
continual con el Piogrania            Elaborar e miplemental un progranra de Control  Deteccion y Contiol de Fugas
de tugas
Meoc            e   eudr     oe          Suminrstrar YNIvCIo de Aguas Negras a  Construir R S de aguas negras 10 km           Se elimina del proyecto                 Este componente se fulanria con tondos del prtstamo SF-HO No 849 del
vones al sistema de Aguas Negras       la poblaci6n de baqos ingfesos        Inslalar nuevos servrclos 40DO                Se lilmina del proyecto                 BID y con tondos del AID a Itaves del Proyecto 522 HG-008 Ver solicitud de
DIMA y aprobaci6n del Banco pafa camb,ar fuentede finanC.amlenlo
D Meloras al smisen a de Aguas Lluvws     Reducir 1as inundaciones que at-e-ct-an  6Construir mte-rceptoces 3 km              Se eltinma del pioyecto                  Este componente se financra con fondos rlel prdstamo SF HO No B49 del
pfincipalmente a la poblac.On de bajos                                                                                      BID Ver solicitud de DIMA y apfobacion de[ Banco para caniblar luemte
rngreos                                                                                                                     de financiarmento
.... .....  ..      5SVN5:55.:55    -4.95          5  -.::- :-55   -::..  .   K .C5.                                                                     ..--...M... ...
.........        .                                                   a?
F Meqor as COperac or ales e In stntucron ales   Fonlalecer la adrmnirnrstracron de DIMA    Contratar consu ltor es            Se contratan I=o cons ultofes           Las metas se a mpi la n pof la prolongaci6n del proy ecto
para lograf una rnshltucron lecnrcamenle Adquirir todo el equipo necesadio          Se equrpa DIMA con vehiculos,          las mismas se cumplen inicalmente pero no se logra su soslenibsihdad
sana y finarce,amente mndepediente                                                  computadoras,radios, etc y materiales y   debtdo a que la empresa no cuentas con politicas adecuadas que ga
acce3orros                              fanilcen la peimanenc,a del personal y la renovaci6n del eq.,po
G. Esl,dios cle rsgns a la saluld por wlgo                                      Prepaiar un estud,o sobre niesgos y un plan de   Se eamina del Pfoyeclo                Ehminado debido a que a corto plazo. cuando se lerlm,,en I05 col-kI.,es y 1.
_de caia cde *Licar conl agua3s nlegras                                        lmitigacOn                                                         __planta de tralamiento de aguas negras. se dqala, de regar co., ag,,.,,
..-   >~~  ~ .455  .n:..-a'.ni&495V.'V.91~~~~~/8E  "''   4.-i?



OFERTA vs DEMANDA PARA E.- REA DEL PROYECTO                                  cu, As 2
______cio  I, _             Dta6  lpd) '_  _                                 DEMANDA (Us)    ___           h          PRODl t-COON    _      j
-   ----.--_____   D~otaci6n         __ .                                                                         DU_C_  N
I  11      H                                 Ii ~~~~~~~~~ Disponible j ~~~~~~~~~~Dis.pofible  Avtuai crmpos.
0 p   i s   c     e :l afscenr;                 Esc     enerarlodR                                   0X          ol l 3  Escenarlo 
Proe.odAtua                  Est ..____ -r           Prjm2d[oPscenario                                         Area Proy.sin  Suniceri y
2                   ActualarloIEscenarlo 3  AreaoProExist jCaeeo
jl  1996  2r, 596  :390     ~~380        380      3            1,158      1,128       1,128       1,128       1,734       1,610 
i   19'3 1 62i88562   390          360         360        360   '1,212          1,119       1119        1,119        1,734      1,610      1,260
;998     281.195      390         340          340        340        1 2h9      1,107       1 107       1,107       1,734       1,610      1,260
1999     294,422      390          320         320        320        1,329      1.090       1 090       1.090        1 *34      1,610       1.260
2000     308 272       390         320         300         300       1, 392      1,142      10      0 70 170         1,734      1,610       1,260
I'  20()5    387 983     3390         320         250         250        1,'1       1,437         1123      1,123       1 734      1,610       1,260
L C)0   430.283        390 _       320         250        _ 210      1,942       1,594      1,245        1,046       1734       1,610       1,260
2000
1800
1600                                           .           .              .     -                                                  1
'Li                                                                                                  .               *.   DEMANDA (Iis)       |
1400                                                                  . --
0            0w -          --         -     *         *     --   -- *  -    .-. : ..  I 
1200                                                            -            -                    .      I
1000I
800  *    PRODUCCION
800
600
400
200 /
01                                                       I
1996         1997          1998         1999         2000          2005          2010



CUADRO No. 3
COSTOS DE COMPONENTES ELIMINADOS
Proyecto Agua Potable y Drenaje
Prestamo 2421-HO
valOres en USS
CO M PON ENTES               |lt a. Reducci6n    2a. Reduccion   3a. Reduccion  |    O
C.MPONENTS                 1 1985-1990             1992            1994
A. FUENTES DE SUMINISTRO DE AGUA
1. POZOS
11 Adqurir Equipos de Bombeo 1/
1 2 Instalaclon Equipos de Bombeo                                     319.286                        319.286
1 3 Construir Estaciones de Bombeo                                    248,167                        248 167
1 4 Adquirir Equipo El4ctrico                                          23 826                         23.a26
B. FUENTES SUPERFICIALES
. TUBERIAS PRIMARIAS
21 Compra Tuberia y Accesonos
211 Bocatoma-Tanque Sta Ana ll                                                         284,318        284.315
212 Tanque Sta. Ana Il-Tanque Sta. Ana III                                             257.125        257,125
21 3 Tanque Sta Ana III-Red Baja                                                      663,137         663.137
21 4 Tanque Rio Piedras-Las Mesetas                                                   315,294         315,294
21 5 Tanque Rio Piedras- P Centeno                                                     103.921        103 921
21 6 Redes de Distribucidn                                            296,657                         296.657
22 Instalar Tuberia
22 1 Boca Toma Sta. Ana-T. Sta. Ana 11                                                 489.673        489,673
2.2 2 Tanque Sta. Anall-Sta Ana III                                                    252,550        252,550
2 3 Tanque Sta Ana III-Red Baja                                                      390,850        390 850
2 4 Tanque Rio Piedras- Las Mesetas                                                  354,902        354 902
2 25 Tanque Rio Piedras-P Centeno                                                      169 804        169,804
3 Construir Estaciones Rebombeo
23 1 Instalacion Lineas Primanas                                      514.324                         514,324
2 3 2 Estacion Las Mesetas                                                              36.340         36.340
23 3 Estacion Rio Piedras                                                               15163          15163
TANCUES DE ALMACENAMIENTO
3 1 Construir Tanque Sta Ana III                                                        8e.889         88 889
C. REDES SECUNDARIAS
1 Redes Secundarias de Alcantarillado
2Llaves Pobiicas                                       40.000                                          40 000
D. DRENAJE DE AGUAS LLUVIAS                         1.000.000                                       1.000 000
E. DETECCION DE FUGAS
1 Mapeo de los Sistemas
G. RIEGO DE CANA DE AZUCAR                             18.000                                          18000
TOTAL j         .000            1 402,260 I     3.421 9631     5.8a2.223d
1. C-si--nlud-s ennme  12



CUADRC No. 4
OPERACIONES FUTURAS
Proyecto Agua Potable y Drenaje
PROYECTO                        Plazo    Fecha    Costo            Estado de
US$        implementaci6n
FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL_                             ___         _               _  _
Reorganizaci6n de DIMA                         IMediano    1996       ND    Idea
Programa de Reducci6n de Agua No Contabilizada   Corto     1996       ND    Anteproyecto
AGUA POTABLE
Obras Pendientes de Ejecuci6n del PMAP        ________
Estaciones y Lineas de Rebombeo              I ____  Corto  1997   995,424 Documentos de Licitacion
Estaciones de Bombeo Sunceri y Chamelec6n    Corto       1998      591,279 Documentos de Licitacion
Linea de Conduccion Santa Ana           ___  Corto       1999      773.998 Documentos de Licitaci6n
Linea de Conducci6n Sta. Ana Il-Sta. Aina ill  Corto     1998      509,675 Documentos de Licitaci6n
Lineas Primarias Eliminadas por desfinanancia    Corto   1997      810,981 Documentos de Licitacion
Tanque Santa Ana IlIl               I_ _   Corto          1998       88,889 Documentos de Licitacion
Desarrollo Fuentes de Suministro
Acueducto Regional Rio Lindo                 I            1996   1111111111111111 Factibilidad
Rio Frio                                      Mediano      SD        ND    Idea
El Tablon-Proyecto uso multiple/Rio Chamelec6n  I Largo    SD)       ND    Prefactibilidad
Rio Ulua                                      Largo        SD        ND    Iea
Aguas Subterraneas                                                          En proceso
Tratarmiento_    _____                                 __
Planta de Rio de Piedras _ -                  Corto       1996              Disenos
_lanta la Primavera                           Corto       1995 _     _     _qu isi9i6n
Planta Las Mesetas    -                       Mediano                       Documentos de Licitacion
Planta El Zapotal    _                        Mediano  _ _   _              Gestiones Preinversion
Planta Machaguala                              Corto      1995              Adquisicio6n
A CAXN_TARILLADOS  =      =___                  |=_._=                                  _ 
Plan Maestro de Alcantarillado Sanitario          ediano     SD _      ND    Documentos de Licitaci6n
Plan Maestro de Aicantarillado Pluv\ia I        Mediano      SDC       ND    Documentos de Ltcitaci6n
MEDIO AMBIENTE
Plan de Accion para Mitigar _                           _.                     Idea
Evaluaci6n de Impacto de Descargas Sobre R Ch                 SD               Idea
Evaluaci6n Riesgos Danos Acuiferos en Explot.                                  Idea
.        



Appendix Cl
RE: DIMA/110
April 30, 1996
RE:  BIRF Loan 2421-HO
Dear Mr. Bengoechea:
We acknowledge receipt of the draft ICR cofinanced with funds from the
referenced loan.
We had read the document and had no comments.
We take this opportunity to convey to you and the rest of the Bank personnel our
appreciation for the interest and support provided on each and every one of the
decisions made during the implementation of the project which allowed us to
successfully complete the works which will eliminate the water shortages to the
city through the year 2005.
Sincerely,
Lic. Hector Guillermo Gale
General Manager
DIMA
(TRANSLATION FROM ORIGINAL LETTER IN SPANISH)



Appendix C.2
April 30, 1996
Dear Mr. Bengoechea:
I appreciate the kindness of sending us a draft of the ICR for our review. We find
that the document summarizes fairly well the essential elements of such a long
and complex project. The financial weakness of DIMA during the next 3-4 years
is the main concern of CDC right now. As you correctly state, this problem is a
result of inappropriate water rates and metering, combined with the fact that some
of the outstanding debt of DIMA is in foreign currency, while the revenues are
obtained in local currency, and hence suffer the effect of devaluation.
For your information, CDC disbursements to DIMA for this project are 3.5
millions and US$8,786,400. The outstanding debts are denominated in these
currencies. Currently the total amount disbursed represent and equivalent of
US$14,176,400, amount that differs slightly from the one estimated by you in
Tables 8A and 8B. The difference is probably a result of using different exchange
rates. In addition to that, the original amount of the loan (approved in 1983) was
9.25 million (I do not have information about the equivalent amount in US
Dollars at that time).
I hope this is useful to you.
Once again I thank you and send you my regards,
Gabriel Murillo
CDC
(TRANSLA TION FROM ORIGINAL FAX IN SPANISH)



MAP SECTION






H ON D U R A SJX,
WATER  SUPPLY  AND  DRAINAGE  PROJECT   
San Pedro Sula Metropolitan AreaXe 
_ _..,  , :  .., ..... ,- ------_--- -   
, 5 n I  \ Yi \SS ~~~LS









IMA(G IN(-A
Report No-        15727
Type: ICR



