Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3799-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$19.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
May 1, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
US$1.0  =    L2.0
L1.0 = US$0.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CABEI             Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CDC               Commonwealth Development Corporation
CONADI            National Investment Corporation
CONSUPLANE        National Superior Council for Economic Planning
DIMA              Municipal Water Division of San Pedro Sula
DREE              French Directorate for External Economic Relations
DSA               Environment Sanitation Directorate
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MC                San Pedro Sula Municipal Corporation
MH                Ministry of Health
INA               National Agrarian Institute
PAHO              Pan American Health Organization
SANAA             National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service
USAID             U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Honduras
Beneficiaries:            San Pedro Sula Municipal Corporation (MC) National
Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service (SANAA)
Amount:                   US$19.6 million equivalent, including the
capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                    20 years with 5 years of grace at standard
variable rate
Relending Terms:          Same as to Borrower.  The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the MC and SANAA
Go-Financiers:            Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the
Direction des Relations Economiques Extgrieures
(DREE), of the French Ministry of Finance
Project Description:      The proposed project would consist of two main
components, the larger of which would provide
improvements to the water supply and drainage
systems in San Pedro Sula and technical assistance
for institutional improvements for DIMA, the
autonomous operational division of the MC
responsible for providing water, sewerage, and
drainage services. This component would benefit
approximately 521,000 persons by 1994. The second
component would provide technical assistance to
SANAA for support in formulating sound financial
policies at the national level in the water supply
sector, for the development of an action plan to
improve its operational and financial performance,
and to improve planning at the national level.
Risks:                    The San Pedro Sula component of the project would
involve risk stemming from DIMA's planned
assumption of expanded responsibilities and the
consequent pressure on its financial resources;
however, this risk has been lessened by the
advanced stage of project preparation, the
willingness of DIMA to use qualified consultants
to assist with project impiementation, and the
redefinition of DIMA's legal status, which will
allow it to operate on an independent basis and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
obtain needed tariff increases on a timely basis.
The main risk associated with the SANAA component
involves the continued commitment to providing a
suitable environment at the national level, in
which the various water supply and sewerage
companies can operate. Achievement of ultimate
objectives will also depend on application of
consultants' recommendations, where appropriate.
These would be addressed through close supervision
and dialogue with Government.
Project Cost:                                                                              V
Item                                                Local  Foreign  Total
-----US$ Million-----
San Pedro Sula Component                               8.2    15.1    23.3
National Component                                      0.1     0.7      0.8
Base Cost                                           8.3    15.8    24.1
Physical Contingencies                                  0.8     1.5      2.3
Price Contingencies                                     2.8     4.2      7.0
Total Project Cost                                 11.9    21.5    33.4
Interest During Construction and Commitment Fees:
-  Bank Financed                                     ---      6.1      6.1
-  Other                                             ---      2.7      2.7
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                              ---     0.1      0.1
Total Financing Required 1/                        11.9    30.4    42.3
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                               ---    19.6    19.6
CDC Loan                                                1.0    10.0    11.0
Norwegian Grant                                        ---      0.3      0.3
French Grant (DREE)                                     ---     0.5      0.5
DIMA                                                   10.8     ---    10.8
SANAA                                                  0.1      ---      0.1
Total Financing                                    11.9    30.4    42.3
Disbursements: 2/
Bank Fiscal Year
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
--------------------US$ Million…--------------------
Annual               0.7      3.8     3.3      3.6      3.3     2.5      2.4
Cumulative           0.7      4.5     7.8    11.4    14.7    17.2    19.6
Rate of Return: 14%
Appraisal Report: No. 4711-HO, dated April 30, 1984
1/ Total financing requirements distributed as follows:
Local Foreign Total
San Pedro Sula      11.8    29.3    41.1
SANAA                0.1      1.1     1.2
2/  Includes retroactive financing of contracts valued at about US$400,000.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan of US$19.6 million to the Republic of Honduras for a Water Supply and
Drainage Project.  The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, with interest at the World Bank's standard variable rate.
US$19.0 million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent, on the same
terms as the Bank loan, to the Municipal Corporation of San Pedro Sula
(MC), and US$0.6 million would be relent on the same terms to the National
Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service (SANAA). Of the amount lent to the
MC, about US$13.0 million would be used for expansion and improvement of
the water supply and technical assistance. About US$6.0 mill4on would be
used to cover the Bank's capitalized financing charges, including the
front-end fee of US$0.05 million, as well as interest during construction
and commitment fees. The US$0.6 million to be relent to SANAA would cover
consulting costs for technical assistance (US$0.4 million), and interest
and commitment fees on the Bank loan (US$0.2 million).  In addition to the
proposed Bank loan, the MC would receive US$11.0 million from the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) for the financing of the San
Pedro Sula component. The CDC loan would have the same term and grace
period as the Bank loan, but would be lent at 11 percent.  The Borrower for
the CDC Loan would also be the Government.  CDC would also finance interest
during construction and commitment fees; it does not charge a front-end
fee. The French Government, through the Direction des Relations
Economiques Extgrieures (DREE) of its Ministry of Finance, would provide a
grant  for about US$500,000 equivalent to finance part of the SANAA
component.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Memorandum on Honduras"
(3312-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 29, 1981.
Bank missions visited Honduras during July and November 1983 to review
recent economic performance. The main findings of these missions are
summarized below.  Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Honduras' per capita GNP was about US$600 in 1981, making it one
of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere- Malnutrition is
severe; infant mortality is about 9 percent of live births; and the
literacy rate is only 60 percent. About one-half of the population is
without safe water and three-quarters of the households are without access
to sanitary waste disposal and electricity.



-2-
4.        The population of about 3.8 million is growing rapidly, at about
3.4 percent a year, straining available resources. While two thirds of the
economically active population is employed in agriculture, only one-quarter
of the land area is arable. The Government is showing some awareness of
population problems. Family planning information and services are provided
at Government health clinics and by the Honduran Family Planning
Association to anyone requesting them. External assistance to these and
other smaller programs comes from the United Nations, private
organizations, and USAID.
5.        During 1950-75, the real growth rate of the Honduran economy was
3.7 percent a year; per capita income grew by only about one percent a
year. A number of factors contributed to this poor performance. A major
reason was the continued dependence on banana exports, and deteriorating
terms of trade. The risk of dependence on banana exports was illustrated
dramatically during 1974-75 when extensive destruction of the plantations
by one of the worst hurricanes in Honduras' history resulted in a sharp
reduction in exports and GDP.
6.        Subsequently, real GDP recovered remarkably during 1976-79,
growing by 7.7 percent a year. Real investment--public and private--and
exports were the most significant growth factors.  Inflation averaged seven
percent a year.  The favorable growth performance of the economy during
1976-79 was partly a result of more aggressive Government development
policies in the 1970s. A land reform program distributed about 210,000
hectares to over 48,000 families, of which 36,000 remain on the land.
Serious infrastructure deficiencies in transport and power were eased when
a basic network of trunk highways and ports was built and power generating
capacity expanded significantly.  Public fixed investment increased from
3.3 percent of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in 1974 and to over 9.0 percent
in 1978-79.  As a result, private sector activities expanded rapidly during
1976-79, taking advantage of the externalities created by the public
s ect or.
Recent Developments
7.        During 1980-83, the economy stagnated as exports and investment
lost their dynamism; real per capita GDP declined by about 14 percent.
Private investment was adversely affected by political events in Central
America and by tight credit. Real exports decreased 8 percent as exported
quantities of bananas, beef, and manufactures declined; simultaneously, the
terms of trade worsened by about 15 percent. As a result, the country's
external financial position deteriorated.  The current account deficit of
the balance of payments averaged about US$261 million (9.7 percent of GDP)
a year, and net official foreign exchange reserves declined substantially
in spite of significant inflows of foreign official capital, partly because
of a sharp decline in foreign commercial credits.  The Central Bank
rationed foreign exchange. Import permits were introduced in May 1982 to
restrain the demand of non-essential imports; since then, a 100 percent
guarantee deposit is required for all requests to open letters of credit
for import payments.  Imports in 1982-83 were on the average 25 percent



-3-
below 1981 levels. A parallel market for foreign exchange has since
developed.
8.        Public finances also deteriorated, mainly at the Central
Government level. Central Government current expenditures increased
rapidly during 1980-81, reflecting salary adjustments and large expenditure
increases in the areas of education and health. Weak public finances
during 1980-83 brought about a large increase in the use of domestic credit
by the public sector.  To correct the situation, the Government took
significant tax measures during 1982 as part of a stand-by agreement with
the IMF covering a 14-month period ending in December 1983.  Nevertheless,
actual revenues were insufficient in 1982 and 1983 to cover rising current
expenditures--mostly for goods and services, and interest--in spite of a
wage freeze which reduced the Central Government's wage bill from 8.5
percent to 7.5 percent of GDP.  Tariffs of the port authority, power
company, telecommunications company, and water authority were also
increased significantly late in 1982 under the stand-by arrangement,
resulting in higher operating surpluses. However, the overall deficit of
the non-financial public sector remained high in 1983 (10.3 percent of GDP)
because of lower than expected revenues, higher purchases of goods and
services, and the large additional burden created by the refinancing of the
National Investment Corporation (CONADI) obligations with foreign
commercial banks arising out of its support to private sector projects with
share capital, loans, and loan guarantees. Many of these projects are now
bankrupt or in arrears on their debt obligations, and the Government has
had to honor these debts. As a result of these developments, the Honduran
Government was unable to meet all the performance criteria of the IMF
stand-by arrangement and thus was not able to draw on the last tranche.
Discussions are currently proceeding between the IMF and the Honduran
Government with the objective of negotiating a new program.
9.        Negotiations with foreign commercial banks to refinance the debts
of CONADI and a few other public agencies are nearly complete. About 17
percent of existing external public debt at the end of 1982 (about US$225
million) is being refinanced; about US$120 million of amortization payments
will be rescheduled.
Prospects and Development Programs
10.       Economic growth prospects during the next few years depend on a
number of differing factors. The Government investment effort underway,
together with the good prospects for increasing export volumes of lumber
and wood products and some other non-traditional exports, as well as
possible diversification efforts by the private sector, could result in
significant growth by the late 1980s.  Nevertheless, the immediate outlook
is colored by the political climate in the region, low export prices, and
reduced demand in the industrialized countries, all of which discourage
private investment. In these circumstances, the needed task of
strengthening public finances will present a serious challenge to the
authorities. A new IMF Stand-by arrangement is expected to include a
prudent financial program in the public sector, reasonable financial and



incentives policies, and appropriate overall demand management.  These
Government programs, together with an improved investment climate, could
help revitalize the private sector so that it can make a greater
contribution to the further growth of the economy and take advantage of the
new opportunities thus presented.
11.       The current account balance of payments will likely show
moderately high deficits in the next few years. After an initial sharp
increase owing to a rapid expansion of lumber exports due to the completion
of a large sawmill and related port infrastructure in 1984, the quantum of
exports would likely grow at a low rate for the next few years; low prices
will also affect foreign exchange earnings from exports.  Imports are
expected to expand, reflecting some recovery of economic activity as well
as the import requirements of the public investment program. However, the
completion of the Cajon hydroelectric plant in 1985 will significantly
reduce fuel imports. Imported oil costs reached US$170 million (23.0
percent of c.i.f. merchandise imports) in 1982.
12.       The public investment program for the next few years shows
continued large expenditures on infrastructure projects, particularly for
ongoing power and transport projects.  Power investments will be the
largest, averaging about 40 percent of public fixed investment, mostly
because of the large, lumpy investment required for the El Cajon
hydroelectric project, which the Bank Group is helping to finance (Loan
1805-HO and Credit 989-HO, approved in 1980).  Transport investments
include rural roads, a modest expansion of the trunk highway system and
completion of a new port at Castilla for wood products and banana exports.
Also likely are substantial expenditures for agricultural and rural
development as well as for water supply. Agricultural investments will be
focused on rural development projects for three major valleys (Aguan,
Guayape and Comayagua) and the western area of the country. Water supply
investments will be concentrated in Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and
provincial towns.  Educational investments are mostly for rural primary
schools, agricultural and vocational training institutions. Tight public
finances will necessitate trimming the public investment program to include
ongoing and new projects of highest priority only.
External Financing
13.       Honduras' disbursed public external debt repayable in foreign
currency amounted to US$1.4 billion or 49 percent of GDP at the end of
1982; US$2.0 billion, if undisbursed commitments are included. In the
past, Honduras has managed to keep its external debt-service ratio fairly
low, because foreign loans to the non-financial public sector were almost
all on concessionary terms. The debt-service ratio in 1981 was
14 percent. It increased to 18 percent in 1982 owing to a sharp increase
in CONADI's obligations with foreign commercial banks, arising out of
direct debts and guarantees to private investors (paragraph 8). The public
debt service is expected to peak at about 24 percent in 1986.



- 5 -
14.       At the end of 1982, the Bank Group held about 21.8 percent of the
disbursed public debt outstanding and repayable in foreign currency;
excluding IDA, the Bank's share is about 16.0 percent.  These shares are
not expected to increase significantly in the next few years. About
one-fourth of the Inter-American Development Bank's (IDB) total loans
disbursed and outstanding are repayable in local currency, so that IDB's
share of the disbursed public debt repayable in foreign currency is only
12.9 percent. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI)
accounts for 9.1 percent of the total, the U.S. Government for
12.9 percent, Venezuela for 9.6 percent, privately held debt for about
27.6 percent and other debt for 6.1 percent.
15.       During 1970-82, the principal official lending agencies committed
some US$1.9 billion at FY82 prices, of which the Bank Group provided
34 percent, IDB 32 percent, CABEI 22 percent, and the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) 12 percent. IDB has concentrated on
manufacturing, agriculture, power, transport, water and sewerage, and
education; CABE! on transport and power; and USAID on agriculture and
education.
16.       The current account deficit is expected to average US$214 million
during 1984-86, a reduction of about 20 percent from that of 1980-1983.
The bulk of the external financing requirements is expected to be met
through public borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated gross capital
inflow of about US$0.9 billion during 1984-86, of which about 41 percent
will be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1982. The
balance is expected to be obtained on concessionary terms from bilateral
and multilateral agencies, which will minimize any increase in the total
debt service.
17.       Honduras is expected to improve its balance of payments in the
near term as projects which will reduce fuel import requirements and expand
lumber exports are completed. Export promotion policies which are in the
process of being implemented will contribute to continued improvement in
the longer term. Strengthening of the Government's finances remains a high
priority in the adjustment program required to deal with the adverse
external environment which the country has faced in the past few years.
Efforts to achieve this are reflected in the sharp expenditure cuts in many
areas contained in the Government's 1984 budget. Provided the Government
makes further improvements in its adjustment program, including more
effective incentives for exports, maintains a prudent external borrowing
policy, and continues to avoid the conflicts which have occurred in some of
its neighboring countries, the country is expected to resume economic
growth in 1984 and sustain accelerated growth of GDP averaging 5 percent
annually during the second half of the 1980s. Honduras' relatively low
debt service ratio (18 percent at the end of 1982), the expected continuing
official flows on concessionary terms, and the Government's continued
efforts to implement an appropriate adjustment program make it creditworthy
for Bank lending.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955,
:onduras has to date received 29 Bank loans totalling US$483.5 million and
12 IDA credits totalling US$85.1 million, both net of cancellations.  Bank
Group lending to Honduras was unusually large during 1979 and 1980, both
because of the Government's stepped-up investment program and because of
the major investment in the El Cajon Power Project, for which a US$105.0
million loan and US$20.0 million credit were approved on March 11, 1980.
As of March 31, 1984, a total of US$145.5 million remained to be disbursed
on 13 Bank Group-assisted operations for electricity, roads, education,
agricultural credit, industrial credit, ports, regional development,
tourism, and petroleum exploration. Execution of projects financed by the
Bank Group has, on balance, been satisfactory.
19.       Speed of disbursements in Honduras has varied considerably by
sector, with power projects generally accounting for the largest share. In
FY83, disbursements reached a record high of US$54.6 million, of which
nearly half was accounted for by El Cajon. Agricultural credit accounted
for the second-largest share of the disbursed amount, US$9.2 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1984.
20.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in
transport and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development
of the country.  However, the First Livestock Development Credit, approved
in 1970, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending.
Since then, while lending for power and transport has continued,
diversification of our lending has increased through operations for another
livestock project, two education projects, three agricultural credit
projects, a regional development project, two industrial credit projects, a
tourism development project, a petroleum exploration promotion project, and
now, a water supply project.
21.       We hope to actively continue to support Honduras' development
efforts, though the annual Bank Group lending level is currently
constrained by the relatively large size of the El Cajon operation in our
portfolio. An important factor which will be taken into account in
determining the pace and size of future lending will be the Government's
capacity to implement its large ongoing program and to absorb further
operations (paragraph 12). In future lending to Honduras, we plan to
support the Government's objectives to increase production, employment, and
exports, and to raise living standards of the poor by emphasizing projects
in the productive and social sectors.  In order to promote and diversify
both agricultural and industrial production, we would continue to provide
credit to those sectors. The proposed project would be the first to the
water supply/sewerage sector. We would, however, continue to complement
the active programs of USAID and IDB in that sector and in the housing
sector. The proposed project also supports the objective of limiting
demands on the Central Government for counterpart funding--the majority of



-7-
local counterpart would be generated at the local level in San Pedro Sula.
In addition to such projects aimed at improving living conditions for the
urban poor, we would also continue to emphasize rural development to
support the Government's agrarian reform efforts. New lending for
infrastructure could be considered once the immediate obstacles to
development are overcome and the Government's absorptive capacity has
improved. In formulating our lending program we will continue to
A           coordinate our efforts closely with other international and bilateral
agenci s.
22.       It is expected that the Bank's share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will increase slightly from its current
level of 16 percent to about 17 percent during the late-1980s. Annual
interest and amortization on Bank loans currently represents about 14
percent of total public external debt service.  This proportion is
projected to increase to about 16 percent by the late-1980s.
23.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity
investment, of US$295,000 and US$55,000, respectively, in a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity
investment of US$27,500 was made in this company.  In 1968 and 1970 equity
investments totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino
Celulosa de Centro America, S.A. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0
million and an equity investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V., a locally owned textile company, to help finance an expansion
and diversification project.  IFC continues to look for investment
opportunities in Honduras.  Proposals for cotton cultivation and dairy
projects are currently under preliminary consideration.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Background
24.       During the 1970-1980 decade, the population of urban areas grew
rapidly, at rates averaging 5.5 percent per annum, compared with an overall
population growth rate of 3.3 percent per annum. Assuming these rates
continue, by the year 2000, total population would be nearly 7 million,
with the proportion of urban population increasing from 36 to over 50
percent. During the same decade, San Pedro Sula experienced a particularly
high growth rate--7.0 percent per annum. This rapid urbanization has
placed ever increasing strains on urban infrastructure and the ability of
major cities and towns to provide adequate services, including water supply
and sewerage. This trend, combined with existing low service levels, which
place Honduras sixteenth out of 21 countries in the region in terms of
water supply services and fourteenth in terms of sewerage, underscores the
importance of a continued and intensified government effort to improve
access to modern safe water and sewerage facilities.



-8-
25.       Inadequate water supply and sanitation also play a major role in
lower life expectancy (currently estimated at 59 years), and higher infant
mortality (86 per thousand live births in 1980).  These indicators contrast
with the average figures for middle-income Latin American and Caribbean
countries: life expectancy, 63 years, and infant mortality rate, 67 per
thousand live births. Though statistics on causes of mortality and
morbidity are limited, available data suggest that diarrheal diseases,
caused by poor water supply and sanitation, are the most important cause of
death (20 percent of certified deaths).
Water Resources and Existing Sector Service Levels
26.       Honduras has a relative abundance of good surface water sources,
and groundwater has therefore been tapped only rarely. Few exploitable
sources of surface water remain, however, and greater use of groundwater
will be required in the future. General studies of water quality carried
out by SANAA indicate that both disinfection and standard treatment for
turbidity during heavy rains would be required to produce acceptable
potable water from most sources.  Spreading deforestation has been
identified as a contributing factor to deterioration in water quality and,
unless arrested, could become a serious problem.
27.       Total population served with water supply through house
connections in 1982 was 51 percent in urban areas and 13 percent in rural
areas. Quality of service is generally deficient, owing to inadequate
supplies, poor system maintenance, and frequent equipment breakdowns.
Sewerage service in 1982 for the total population reached 15 percent by
waterborne systems and 19 percent by other systems. In urban areas, 49
percent of the population was served, and in rural areas 26 percent was
served, principally by latrines.
Institutional Framework
28.       Water resource development is presently carried out under a 1927
National Water Law which requires Government approval for all water
development activities and identifies priorities for different uses of
water. Planning of new investments in the sector is done by the National
Superior Council for Economic Planning (CONSUPLANE) under the Ministry of
the Presidency.
29.       SANAA, the most important institution in the sector, was
established in 1961, with jurisdiction (subject to municipal consent) for
water supply in all communities with more than 500 inhabitants and for
sanitary sewerage in all towns with population over 20,000.  By 1982, SANAA
was operating the water, sewerage, and drainage systems in Tegucigalpa and
101 other urban and eligible rural communities, serving about 700,000
persons with piped water. However, SANAA's own institutional constraints
have limited the fulfillment of its legal mandate, as well as its
effectiveness in providing service (paragraph 32). In practice, therefore,
many communities have preferred to operate their own systems, though with
mixed success.



- 9 -
30.        San Pedro Sula and about 600 other towns and villages operate
their own water systems.  Of these, 33 (including San Pedro Sula) also have
sewerage systems.  About 650,000 persons received piped water under such
systems in 1982.  In San Pedro Sula, water supply, sewerage, and drainage
services are provided by the Municipal Water Division (DIMA) (paragraphs
46-47).
31.        Responsibility for constructing water supply and sanitation
facilities in communities under 500 inhabitants and "marginal areas"
--slums at the periphery of urban centers--rests with the Ministry of
Health (ME), through its Directorate of Environmental Sanitation (DSA).
Though some progress has been made in providing small communities with
low-cost systems (partly with assistance from USAID), DSA has been able to
benefit very few "marginal areas."
32.       Most institutions in the sector, including SANAA, have generally
low salary scales, and are unable to attract sufficient numbers of
qualified professional staff, especially at top and middle management
levels.  This results in inefficiencies of all kinds, including poor
operation and maintenance of systems and inadequate financial, physical,
and operational records. Information systems in most cases fail to provide
management with sufficient information to assess performance or promptly
identify and solve problems.  Generally low tariffs and inadequate
collection procedures have necessitated dependence on subsidies from the
Central Government. In an effort to improve SANAA's financial position and
reduce its dependence on Central Government transfers, tariffs were raised
substantially in Tegucigalpa in 1983. However, failure to improve meter
coverage and collection procedures may result in a lower-than-expected
increase in revenues, despite the higher tariffs.  The development of an
action plan for institutional strengthening of SANAA is included in the
project (paragraph 40).
Government Policy Framework and Objectives
33.        Government policy in the sector consists largely of setting goals
for levels of service, translated into investments necessary to achieve
them.  The Honduran authorit_(s, with technical assistance from the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO) and the German Society for Technical
Cooperation, began work in 1982 on a national water supply and sanitation
plan. A sector diagnostic completed under this plan in May 1982
recommended goals for piped water and sewerage coverage of 90 percent and
40 percent, respectively, by 1990. Total investment to meet these goals
*           was estimated at US$326 million (an average of US$47 million per year),
programmed in constant January 1984 prices. To achieve this goal, annual
expenditures would have to treble, an unrealistic target, given current
budget constraints. Nevertheless, the results of the study underscore the
need for investment in the sector to provide an adequate level of safe
water to the population.
34.        No cost recovery policies (and, therefore, no tariff policies)
have been established for the sector. Although water authorities are
expected to cover operating costs, they are rarely expected to contribute



- 10 -
to their investments or to service their debts.  Shortfalls are made up
chiefly by Central Government transfers.
35.       Although SANAA's legal mandate gives it the authority to set its
tariffs as necessary, in practice, tariffs are changed only with approval
of the President of the Republic. Tariffs charged by independent municipal
water authorities must be approved by the Ministry of Government and
Justice as part of the municipal budget approval process. Tariffs for use
of rural water systems constructed by the MH are set by community boards.
Efforts have begun to develop a consistent tariff policy which would take
account of the need to reflect through tariff levels the economic cost of
water use, while providing some subsidy to the poorest segments of the
population.
Sector Financing
36.       In the past, about 45 percent of total investment in the sector
has been financed with external assistance, principally from IDB and USAID,
with the remaining 55 percent financed mainly by the Central Government
and, in some cases, by municipalities. Continued substantial external
support can be expected in the future, but increasing Central Government
financial constraints are forcing a reduction in Government subsidies and
support for most sectors, including water supply.  Such decreases in
government transfers are now requiring both SANAA and municipal governments
to confront the necessity of establishing and implementing adequate cost
recovery policies in order to generate internally more of the funds
necessary to carry out investments planned to improve--or even sustain--the
level of service provided.
Bank Strategy
37.       These changing circumstances have made apparent the need, not
only for additional external funding, but for technical assistance to help
agencies which provide services in the sector to achieve financial
self-sufficiency. This is an area on which other agencies with active
programs in the sector have not and do not plan to concentrate significant
effort. The Bank's strategy, therefore, is to assist institutions in the
sector to achieve this goal of financial viability, while they continue to
improve the level of service which they provide. Though the Bank has not
previously lent for water supply in Honduras, such lending has been
discussed periodically since 1978, and extensive dialogue has been
conducted in the course of sector work and project preparation. The
proposed loan would represent the first step in implementing Bank strategy
by providing both financial and technical assistance for expansion of the
water supply system of San Pedro Sula, while also providing technical
assistance for the strengthening of DIMA's financial and operational
performance, for a study to determine the specific actions necessary to
achieve similar goals in SANAA, and to carry out certain actions which have
already been identified. This work with SANAA would lay the foundation,
through formulation of a national policy framework, for possible future
operations at the national level. Such operations would provide a vehicle



- 11 -
for assistance to SANAA in implementing measures recommended as a result of
the work to be carried out under the proposed project, which could possibly
include revision of tariff structures and overall cost recovery policies,
as well as improvements in operational efficiency.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
38.       The proposed Project was developed in two parts:  the first was
prepared between 1981-1983 by the Municipal Water Division of San Pedro
Sula (DIMA), with the assistance of two foreign consulting firms and in
consultation with the Bank; the second was prepared during 1983 by SANAA,
in consultation with the Bank. The Project was appraised in May 1983, with
a post-appraisal mission in September 1983. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Honduras, Water Supply and Drainage Project" (Report
No. 4711-HO), is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from March 5 to March 12, 1984. The Government delegation
was led by Ms. Maria Antonieta Dominguez, Director General of Public
Credit, Ministry of Finance. Supplementary data are contained in Annex
III.
Objectives and Description
39.       At the municipal level, the proposed project aims at (a) making
DIMA technically sound and financially independent by strengthening
its management, operations, and finances; (b) eliminating water shortages
affecting a majority of the population (especially the urban poor) of San
Pedro Sula, the country's second largest city (1982 population 293,000),
through expansion of the water supply system; (c) providing water service
to the growing population of the metropolitan area, estimated to reach
625,000 by 1994, through expansion of the distribution system; (d)
providing water supply and sewerage service to poor residents through
installation of service connections in low-income neighborhoods; and (e)
reducing flooding (which mainly affects poor neighborhoods) through
expansion of the stormwater drainage system. At the national level, the
project includes a small technical assistance component to help SANAA to
develop an action plan to meet its statutory and operational objectives,
while reducing its reliance on Central Government subsidies.
40.       The proposed project incorporates the following components:
A.  San Pedro Sula Component
(1) Water supply improvements, through construction of about 18
wells and 3 chlorination stations and rehabilitation of
about 7 wells, and including technical assistance to
evaluate aquifer capacity and design deep wells;



- 12 -
(2)  Water transmission, distribution, and storage improvements,
through rehabilitation of 2 water intakes and respective
water mains, construction of about 46 km of primary water
distribution mains, 2 booster pump stations; and
construction of 2 distribution storage reservoirs with a
combined capacity of about 30,000 cubic meters;
(3)  Construction of about 15 km of secondary water distribution
mains and about 10 km of secondary sewerage collectors;
repair or replacement of defective secondary water
distribution mains; installation of about 25 standpipes,                     M
about 5,000 water service connections, and about 4,000
sewerage service connections; and installation of about
24,000 water meters and about 6 water master meters;
(4) construction of about 3 km of stormwater drainage
interceptor;
(5) acquisition of equipment for leak detection and provision of
technical assistance to prepare water distribution maps, set
up a leak detection program, and train DIMA staff in leak
detection;
(6)  provision of technical assistance to implement measures for
the institutional improvement of DIMA and acquisition of
equipment for operation and maintenance of the water supply
and drainage systems, including spare parts, materials,
vehicles, and a micro-computer;
(7) provision of technical assistance to prepare a study on the
health hazards associated with continued use of polluted Rio
Sauce water for sugarcane irrigation.
B. SANAA Component
Provision of technical assistance to support SANAA in
achieving financial self-sufficiency through (a) formulation
of financial policies for the water supply and wastewater
sector; (b) preparation of an action plan to improve SANAA's
management, engineering, accounting, and commercial systems;
(c) assessment of sectoral investment needs and assignment
of priorities to projects identified to address those needs;
(d) evaluation and implementation of SANAA's training
program; (e) preparation and implementation of a program to
reduce water loss in Tegucigalpa; and (f) preparation of a
project designed to address the needs identified by the
assessment carried out under (c), above.



- 13 -
Project Cost and Financing
41.       Total project cost is estimated at about US$33.4 mniiLiorn
(including contingencies), of which about 64 percent, or US$21.5 million,
represents the estimated foreign exchange cost.  Baseline costs are updated
to January 1984 price levels, from cost estimates prepared in fall 1982.
There are no identifiable taxes or duties, since both the MC and SANAA are
tax-exempt. Physical contingencies represent 10 percent of baseline
costs. Price contingencies were calculated based on forecast inflation
rates (local equal to international) of 7.5 percent in 1984, 7.0 percent in
1985, and 6.0 percent thereafter. Financing charges on foreign loans,
including interest during construction, would add US$8.9 million, bringing
total financing requirements to US$42.3 million, 72 percent of which
(US$30.4 million) represents the foreign cost component.
42.       The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of US$19.6 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee of about US$0.05 million, and
interest during construction and commitment fees of about US$6.1 million.
The financing of interest is designed to help alleviate the heavy impact
which the project would have on DIMA's finances (the project would
represent a 200 percent increase in DIMA's fixed assets) concurrently with
its efforts to attain financial viability (paragraphs 60-61, below). The
Bank loan would provide 48 percent of the financing requirements of the San
Pedro Sula component and 51 percent of the financing requirements of the
SANAA component and represents entirely foreign cost in both components.
An US$11.0 million CDC loan would finance 26 percent of the San Pedro Sula
component. The Norwegian Government has provided a grant of US$300,000
toward project preparation in San Pedro Sula. About US$10.8 million, equal
to about 26 percent of total financing requirements of the San Pedro Sula
component, will be provided by DIMA's internal cash generation. The French
Government would provide a grant of about US$500,000 equivalent to finance
part of the technical assistance to SANAA (paragraph 40.B.(d), (e), and
(f)). SANAA would finance an estimated 7.0 percent of total requirements
of the SANAA component (12 percent of the Bank-financed parts). The
contributions of both DIMA and SANAA consist entirely of local cost.
Tables showing project costs and the financing plan are contained in the
Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
43.       Consultants would be hired to assist DIMA in carrying out the San
Pedro Sula component (paragraph 48), and to provide technical assistance
for execution of the SANAA component. About 734 man-months are estimated
to be required for the various tasks under the San Pedro Sula component and
about 81 man-months for the SANAA component. About 344 man-months of work
would be provided by expatriate consultants, and the balance would be
supplied by local professionals and assistants.
44.       The CDC loan is expected to have a term of 20 years, including 5
years grace, at 11.0 percent fixed interest. There is no front-end fee;
CDC would also finance interest on its loan during construction.  Execution
and delivery of the CDC loan contract and the French grant agreement and
satisfaction of the conditions of effectiveness of those contracts would be



- 14 -
a condition of effectiveness for the Bank loan (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(d) and (e)).
Relending Terms and Repayment
45.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be relent to the MC and
SANAA, on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, as spelled out in
subsidiary loan agreements to be drawn up between the Government and the MC
and SANAA, respectively. These subsidiary agreements would also specify,
inter alia, the specific mechanisms to be established for the channeling of
Bank disbursements to SANAA and DIMA and for repayment of the Bank loan,
and that SANAA and the MC would bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution
of the two subsidiary agreements, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
would be a condition of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(c)).
Project Implementation
46.       San Pedro Sula Component.  The MC, through DIMA, would be
responsible for project implementation in San Pedro Sula. In order to
carry out its responsibilities under the project and to form the basis for
development of financial self-sufficiency, DIMA has been legally redefined
as an autonomous operating division of the MC.1/ To accomplish this
redefinition, a law was approved by the National Congress to permit the
establishment of autonomous operating divisions for the provision of public
services. Within this framework, the MC has issued an Act (Acuerdo
Municipal), approved by the Departmental Council, which defines the
authority and guidelines for DIMA's operation as such a division. The
Acuerdo Municipal provides, inter alia, for DIMA's authority to establish
its own hiring and firing policies and salary scales, make employment
decisions, formulate investment plans, and implement tariff increases.  The
Acuerdo also provides for settlement of accounts between DIMA and the MC.
The MC has agreed to formulate a plan of action for payment of outstanding
bills to DIMA by no later than September 30, 1984, and to ensure
installation of meters and commencement of billing of MC water consumption
by no later than December 31, 1984 (draft MC Project Agreement, Section
2.18). The MC would implement all other provisions of the Acuerdo as
provided therein (draft MC Project Agreement, Section 3.01).
47.         Under its present organization, DIMA is capable of starting
project implementation as scheduled in 1984.  To improve the efficiency of
its planning, management, and operating systems, however, DIMA would be
reorganized as part of an action plan for improvement of its operations
(draft MC Project Agreement, Section 2.17). The reorganization of DIMA,
which would be completed by September 30, 1984, would be aimed at a clear
definition of functional and managerial responsibility and reduction of the
1/ Though operationally and financially independent, DIMA has no separate
legal personality under its new status as operating division; for this
reason, the Project Agreement for the San Pedro Sula component of the
proposed project would be with the MC.



- 15 -
ratio of employees per connection. Other measures included in DIMA's
action plan include: (a) employment, by no later than September 30, 1984 of
(i) a consultant to serve as manager for finance, accounting and commercial
operations and a consultant as manager for engineering and operations
(draft MC Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b)); and (ii) a human resources
manager (draft MC Project Agreement, Section 2.16(f)); (b) employment by no
later than December 31, 1984 of qualifed data processing staff (draft MC
Project Agreement, Section 2.16(e); (c) preparation, by March 31, 1985 of a
study of DIMA's manpower requirements and training needs, preparation of a
training program, and establishment, by September 30, 1985, of a training
unit (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.16(c) and (d)); (d) establishment,
by June 30, 1986, of a deferred payment program, satisfactory to the Bank,
to recover costs of construction of service connections and secondary water
and sewerage networks in low-income neighborhoods (draft MC Project
Agreement, Section 2.15); and (d) evaluation, by December 31, 1985, of
DIMA's insurance needs, and implementation of a program to address those
needs by June 30, 1986 (draft MC Project Agreement, Section 4.08).
48.         DIMA's Chief Engineer would serve as Project Manager.  The
Project Manager would be responsible for coordinating and supervising work
under all parts of the project in San Pedro Sula, including groundwater
investigations, construction supervision, implementation of the action
plan, the leak-detection program, and the irrigation study. Consultants
would be hired to support him in all these areas (paragraph 47, above).
49.         SANAA Component.  A Project Manager, to be appointed from
SANAA's staff, would carry out all administrative functions related to the
proposed technical assistance program for SANAA. The technical assistance
itself would be provided by consultants acceptable to the Bank under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank. A steering committee consisting of
SANAA's General Manager and representatives of the Ministries of Finance,
of Health, of Government and Justice, and of Natural Resources, would be
responsible for reviewing the work of the consultants and for making policy
decisions. SANAA would appoint a Project Manager and establish, together
with the Ministries concerned, the steering committee, by no later than
September 30, 1984 (draft SANAA Project Agreement, Sections 2.07 and 2.08).
50.       The Bank would supervise all project components, including those
parts of the project to be financed by disbursements from the CDC loan and
the DREE grant. A Co-financing Agreement with CDC and a Memorandum of
Understanding with DREE would include arrangements for the exchange of
information and reports, and would specify responsibility for supervision.
Procurement
51.       Civil works contracts larger than US$500,000 (totalling US$5.5
million) and materials and equipment in packages larger than US$50,000
(totalling US$1.3 million) would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Other goods
and civil works totalling US$0.5 million and US$1.0 million, respectively,
would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory



- 16 -
to the Bank. Consulting services totalling US$5.1 million would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for consultant selection.
Consulting services totalling about US$0.5 million, financed with grant
funds would be procured in accordance with guidelines of the French
Government.  No works under force account are anticipated.  All bidding
packages for civil works estimated to cost over US$1.0 million, and bidding
packages for materials and equipment over US$100,000 would be subject to
the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. This would result in
Bank review of about 90 percent of the total estimated value of civil works
contracts and about 70 percent of materials and equipment contracts. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by the Bank
after contract award.  Procurement of civil works and goods financed by CDC
(US$8.7 million) would be in accordance with CDC's procurement guidelines,
which are similar to the Bank's.
52.       All equipment supply contracts are expected to be awarded to
foreign manufacturers.  The three largest civil works contracts are
expected to be awarded to foreign contractors. The other four civil works
contracts are within the capacity of the local construction industry, and
could go to either local or foreign contractors. All the consulting
contracts are expected to be awarded to foreign firms in joint venture with
local firms.
Disbursements
53.       The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed in seven years.
All disbursements would be supported by standard documentation. A total of
US$13.0 million would be allocated for project costs of the San Pedro Sula
component, and US$0.4 million for the SANAA component.  Loan proceeds would
not be transferable from San Pedro Sula to SANAA, and vice versa. The Bank
would disburse for the foreign cost of materials, equipment, and civil
works for all parts of the project except those costs related to water
transmission, primary distribution, and storage systems (cf. paragraphs
40A.(2) and 54). About US$6.2 million would be allocated for the Bank's
financing charges during construction.
54.       CDC would disburse for materials, equipment, and civil works for
improvements to the water transmission, primary distribution, and storage
systems. DREE would disburse for consulting services under the SANAA
component. No contracts or project components would be jointly financed by
the Bank and CDC or by the Bank and DREE.
55.       Bank disbursements would include retroactive financing for
contracts valued at about US$400,000 to cover costs incurred since May 1983              q
for beginning construction of three project wells and for related
consulting services incurred after May 1983 (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule
1, paragraph 4). The wells will allow prompt increase in the
Municipality's water supply, which would help to justify the 1983 tariff
increase (paragraph 59, below) and facilitate implementation of further
tariff increases planned for the early years of the project implementation
period. Bank disbursements would be permitted against statements of
expenditure for contracts valued at US$20,000 or less.



- 17 -
Financial Analysis and Covenants
56.       During appraisal, a detailed financial analysis of DIMA was
carried out in order to determine (a) its capacity for meeting its project
financing requirements and debt servicing obligations and (b) the
additional action required by DIMA and the MC to ensure DIMA's financial
viability over the longer term and minimize the risk to the Government in
taking responsibility as Borrower for the Bank loan. To assure that the MC
would remain in a position to ensure DIMA's execution of the project and
repayment of the proposed loan to the Government, agreement has been
reached with the MC that it would, for each year after 1984, produce
sufficient revenues to cover the sum of its total expenses, debt-service
requirements, and capital expenditures not financed by medium- to long-term
debt. To this end, the MC would prepare semi-annual reports, to be
reviewed with the Bank, each showing annual forecasts, covering a period of
five years, of its current and planned investments, expenses, revenues, and
borrowings related to all operations except DIMA. If any review showed
that the Municipality's total sources of income would not cover its total
obligations, the MC would promptly take all necessary measures in order to
achieve such balance (draft MC Project Agreement, Section 4.04).
Formulation of an initial financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be a condition of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (f)).
57.       DIMA's Current Position.  DIMA's financial performance in 1981
and 1982 was unsatisfactory; it had operating losses in both years.  This
was largely the result of low sales due to production constraints, and to
inadequate tariffs. However, DIMA was able to cover all of its
debt-service requirements from internal cash generation, though cash
reserves had to be drawn down to cover part of its investment costs, thus
reducing them to L 0.35 million at year-end 1982.
58.       Expansion Program and Financial Prospects.  DIMA's investment
program for 1983-1990 totals US$50.4 million, including the proposed
project (US$41.1 million) and ongoing projects totalling about US$9.3
million. External financing under the proposed project (US$30.3 million)
would provide 60 percent of total requirements, and another US$1.6 million
of external financing for ongoing projects would provide an additional 3
percent. Customer contributions (e.g., direct payment for certain
investments, such as secondary networks and connections) are estimated at
about US$6.5 million, about 13 percent of total requirements during the
period. DIMA's internal cash generation would have to provide the
remainder, about US$12.0 million, or about 24 percent of the cost of its
total investment program.
59.       The investment program described above represents a substantial
increase over the level of investments made by DIMA in recent years and
would require a substantial increase in DIMA's contribution from internal
cash generation. DIMA's estimated financial position for 1983 would not
allow it to contribute immediately the level of resources required from
internal cash generation which the program implies. However, some
increased contribution would be possible as the project gets underway,



- 18 -
because two steps have already been taken to increase DIMA's revenues:  in
1983, DIMA began a program to achieve 100 percent metering by year-end
1985, installing 9,000 new meters in the first year, and implemented a
revised tariff structure (May 1983) which distributes the tariff burden
more equitably among consumers. The change raised tariffs by an average of
20 percent. Together, the expanded metering and new tariff structure are
estimated to increase revenues by 19 percent in 1983 and 38 percent in
1984.
60.       After 1984,  DIMA's financial position is projected to show
considerable improvement, provided that DIMA: (i) continues its metering
program as planned (paragraph 59); (ii) increases tariffs substantially on
a regular basis during project implementation; and (iii) improves its
collection performance. The MC and DIMA appreciate the need for the
prescribed measures, and have therefore agreed that DIMA would:
(a)  implement planned real tariff increases averaging 9 percent
per annum, as required to achieve a rate of return on net
revalued fixed assets of not lower than 1.6 percent in 1984,
4.0 percent in 1985 and 1986, and 7.0 percent thereafter and
would make further tariff adjustments if indicated by an
annual review of its financial position, to be carried out
in consultation with the Bank (draft MC Project Agreement,
Section 4.03;
(b) annually adjust its level of revalued fixed assets to
reflect additions to its asset base and inflation (draft MC
Project Agreement, Section 4.07).
(c) by December 31, 1984, revise its tariff policy toward
unmetered water consumption (draft MC Project Agreement,
Section 2.13);
(d) update its records for private wells and strengthen its
registration-fee collection procedures by no later than June
30, 1985 (draft MC Project Agreement, Section 2.10);
(e) complete, by September 30, 1984, a cost recovery mechanism,
satisfactory to the Bank, which would generate revenues
adequate to cover the operating, maintenance, and investment
costs of providing drainage services and would implement the
mechanism by no later than June 30, 1985 (draft MC Project
greement, Section 2.11); and
(f) reduce its accounts receivable from 4.0 to 3.0 months of
billings by no later than December 31, 1986 (draft MC
Project Agreement, Section 2.12).
DIMA's new operational autonomy allows it to establish tariff increases and
carry out all actions necessary to improve its overall performance
(paragraphs 46-47). A second factor which improves DIMA's prospects for



- 19 -
meeting all of its obligations, including its contribution to its
investment program, is the spreading of project implementation over a
seven-year period, which makes it possible to defer the main burden of
DIMA's contribution until three years into the project implementation
period, thereby giving DIMA's management time to improve the company's
position before having to increase significantly its contribution to its
investment program.
61.        DIMA's debt-service ratio, projected to be 3.9 in 1984, would
increase to a high of 9.6 in 1988, drop to 3.6 in 1989, and again to 1.8 in
1990. The drastic reduction in the ratio reflects the first semi-annual
amortization payments on both the Bank and CDC loans in 1989. In order to
avoid increasing this burden and to ensure adequate liquidity both during
implementation and during the amortization period, the MC would obtain the
Bank's consent before incurring any debt for DIMA's operations, or
investments not related to the proposed project, if the debt would cause
DIMA's debt service during any subsequent twelve-month period to be covered
less than 1.5 times by its net revenues during the previous twelve months
(draft MC Project Agreement, Section 4.05) and before undertaking any
investment whose annual cost would exceed US$1.0 million (draft MC Project
Agreement, Section 4.06). DIMA's operating ratio is projected to be 91
percent in 1984 and to drop to 66 percent by 1990. The operating ratio
together with the goals for the metering program (paragraph 59) are among
an agreed set of monitoring indicators by which DIMA would measure its
performance.
Economic Analysis
62.        During preparation of the San Pedro Sula component, several
alternatives for increasing water supplies were analyzed. The San Pedro
Sula water supply component, as now proposed, was considered the least-cost
solution to meet the city's expected water requirements through 1994. The
economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for the San Pedro Sula water
improvements (supply, distribution, storage, and rehabilitation--
representing 90 percent of total project base cost), using expected
revenues as a proxy for economic benefits. Shadow prices were estimated
for foreign exchange and labor; conversion factors used were 1.02 and 0.83,
respectively. The ERR calculated using these assumptions is 14 percent,
which is satisfactory given the fact that revenues from water service do
not fully reflect economic and social benefits.  These would include
improvements in health, nutrition, and labor productivity, and the indirect
benefit to San Pedro Sula's industry and commerce, whose development
depends on a reliable water supply, and benefits deriving from
institutional technical assistance.
Benefits
63.        It is estimated that 23 percent (about 108,000) of the 521,000
persons to whom direct project benefits would accrue by 1994 would be urban
poor. Of the total, about 9,000 would receive piped water for the first
time, through installation of standpipes in low-income neighborhoods; and
about 44,000 would benefit from improved water service. Of the latter,



- 20 -
about 20,000 would also enjoy relief from periodic flooding of their
homes. The remainder (55,000) is the estimated increase in urban poor
population who would benefit from at least one aspect of the project by
1994. The poor would also benefit through DIMA's revised progressive
tariff structure. DIMA's tariff structure provides for the waiving of the
fixed monthly fee for families below a specified income level. Estimated
average tariff for families at this low income level at project completion
is L 5.0 per month, including sewerage charges, which compares favorably
with the affordability indicator of L 9.0 per month.2/ Technical
assistance under the project both for DIMA and SANAA is aimed at achieving
equitable distribution of costs and benefits of water consumption. Tariff
structures would encourage water conservation.
64.       Technical assistance under the project would directly benefit
both DIMA and SANAA. At the same time, measures to strengthen operational
and financial performance would not only contribute to developing the
viability of those institutions, but also reduce their dependence on fiscal
subsidy. The progress which DIMA has already made in responding to Bank
and consultant recommendations during project preparation offers promise
that it could serve as a model of a financially self-sufficient, viable
water supply "company," whose experience, if proved successful, could be
replicated in other municipalities in Honduras.
Environmental Impact
65.       Increased water supply to the metropolitan area of San Pedro Sula
is expected to increase sewage flows and consequently the pollution of the
Rio Sauce, which is used for sugarcane irrigation downstream of the city.
Without the project, however, it could be expected that an increasing
number of poor immigrants to the city would resort to drawing water from
the river for home use. Nevertheless, to identify the health hazards
associated with the use of river water for irrigation, and to explore
alternative solutions to the problem, a study would be financed under the
project. The study would be completed and submitted to the Bank by
December 31, 1987, and the MC would agree with the Bank by no later than
June 30, 1988, on a plan of action and a timetable for its implementation
based on the recommendations of the study (draft MC Project Agreement,
Section 2.14).
Risks
66.       The project is subject to several types of risk, and a number of
the agreed measures are aimed at reducing this risk. The risks
associated with physical execution of the San Pedro Sula Component are
minimized by the straightforward nature of the works, which are considered
well within the capacity of DIMA's personnel. Cost estimates were prepared
by experienced estimators from final designs, thereby lessening the risk of
2/ Based on an assumed admissible limit of 3% of family income for water
charges, per capita relative poverty level of US$300 p.a., and average
family size of 6.0 persons.



- 21 -
cost overruns. The advanced stage of designs, together with a realistic
construction period, reduces the likelihood of delays in project
completion. Further, the fact that the MC would hire qualified consultants
for construction supervision would lessen all of the above risks. It is
crucial that JIMA improve its institutional performance in order to assume
expanded responsibilities under the project and achieve its goals of
financial self-sufficiency.  The technical assistance for DIMA included in
the project has been designed to improve DIMA's chances of achieving its
institutional goals. DIMA's financial prospects are considerably improved
by the substantial progress already made towards achievement of full
metering and its ability to adjust tariffs as necessary.  The financial
covenants included in the MC Project Agreement (paragraphs 60-61) are
designed to ensure the other elements necessary to DIMA's satisfactory
financial performance.
67.       At national level, the success of the project depends on the
implementation of feasible recommendations to strengthen SANAA so that it
can provide a suitable environment in which the water supply and sewerage
companies can effectively operate. As this component would provide the
greatest potential for a significant Bank contribution to the sector, and
would determine future Bank participation in the sector, it is vital that
the work of the consultants be monitored through close supervision and a
close dialogue be maintained with officials in SANAA and the related
ministries. This dialogue would be conducted both at the project and
economic policy levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Municipal
Corporation of San Pedro Sula, and between the Bank and SANAA, and the
Report of the Committees provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern
of loans for water supply projects, and their more important features and
special conditions have been included in Part IV and summarized in Section
III of Annex III to this report. There are three special conditions of
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement:  (i) that the subsidiary loan
agreements between the Government and the MC and SANAA, respectively, have
been duly executed; and (ii) that all conditions of effectiveness of the
loan agreement between CDC and the Borrower and of the grant agreement
between the French Government and the Borrower have been fulfilled; and
(iii) that a financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the MC's
operations excluding DIMA has been formulated.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President                      W
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 1, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-23-
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                        Page  1  of  5
HONDURAS                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HONDURAS                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGES) ia
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lbREGENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MEIDDLE I-NcCME
1960/       1970-  ESTIMATE-        LAT. AMERICA & CARIB             EUROPE
AREA ( THOUSAND 90. RN)
TOTAL                                 112.1       112.1        112.1
AGRICULTURAL                           50.2        49.4         51.6
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     170.0       260.0        600.0              2088.2                    2453.6
ENERGY CONSUNPrTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       149.0        264.0        292.n              1407.6                    1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1943.0        2639.0       3818.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         22.8         28.7         36.3                65.9                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 6.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         17.3         23.5         32.9                35.6                      82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              38.7         53.4         71.6                93.2                     157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           45.6         47.4         47.5               40.1                       31.9
15-64 YRS                           52.3         50.1        49.8                 55.8                      60.9
65 AND ABOVE                         2.1          2.5         2.7                 4.1                        7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                3.3          3.1          3.4                 2.3                       1.6
URBAN                                 5.8         5.4          5.5                 3.7                       3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           51.1        49.3         44.4                31.5                      25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          18.8         14.7         10.8                 8.1                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5         3.6          3.2                 2.0                       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..        12.7
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          ..          9.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         83.0         97.0         80.0               113.0                     108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        96.0         95.0         96.0               111.3                     129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            58.0         55.0        51.0                67.9                       92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          22.0         20.0        18.0                34.1                       34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           30.0         19.1          9.1                 5.3                      10.4
IRALTE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          46.5        52.5         58.7                64.6                      67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        144.7        117.4        85.7                62.6                       71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                12.1        34.0         46.0/e              64.8
URBAN                               42.9           ..         82.07T              77.8
RURAL                                2.7           . .        27.0/c             44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        24.0         26.0/e              54.6
URBAN                                 ..         64.0         53.07Th            69.8
RURAL                                  . .        9.0         13.o7;             29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           12620.0       3790.0/f    3120.0              1776.0                     1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                 ..       1130.0        700.0             1012.2                      762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              620.0        580.0        710.0/d            477.0                      334.0
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..              667.5                      216.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..             1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED             ..         19.8         29.1/d             27.2                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.7          ..
URBAN                                 5.5          ..
RURAL                                5.7           ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                2.4           ..
URBAN                                1.8           ..           ..
RURAL                                2.7           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               14.6           ..        25.0/*
URBAN                               56.7           ..         67.1                 ...
RURAL                                 1.9          ..          5.5/
__- - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ - - - - --_ _ - --_ - - - - - - - - - --_ - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _   _      _   _ _   _  _   _      _     _   _ _-_- _   _ _-_- -_-_ _-_- -_-_ _-_ _-_- -_-_ _-_- -_-_ _-_- -_-_ _-_- -_-



-24-
ANNEX I
TA 3 L E  3A                                            Page  2  of  5
HONDURAS                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HiONDURAS                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MfIDDLE INCOME            \DDLE INCOME
1960,b       1970=- ESTIMATE-/h      LAT. AMERICA & CARIS              EUROPE
EDDCATION
ADJL'STED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     67.0         87.0         89.0                105.0                      102.2
MALE                      68.0        87.0          92.0               106.3                      107.2
FEIALE                    67.0         88.0         85.0               103.6                       97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       8.0        14.0         21.0                 40.0                       56.5
MALE                       8.0        14.0          20.0                38.6                       63.4
FEMALE                     7.0        13.0          22.0                41.2                       48.9
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)            23.8          17.0         17.3/h              34.0                       22.4                                 p
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              32.0         35.0         41.0                 30.7                       24.7
SECONDARY                            10.0           ..         19.0/h               16.7                       22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (.)                 45.0         57.0         60.0/h              79.5                       69.7
CONSuMPrIOR
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              2.8          4.8          6.4/c              45.6                       52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            64.3         55.7        47.7                228.2                   .  165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.7          8.3         13.3               108.3                      124.2
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUILATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                19.2/i         ..        62.6                 64.1                       96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..           ..                 2.9                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             617.0         793.0      1112.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     12.3         12.7         14.0                 24.8                       34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                70.2         66.5         62.6                 31.3                       40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   10.6         12.5         14.6                 23.9                       23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.8        30.0         29.1                 31.3                       42.0
MALE                                  55.3         52.3        50.0                 49.8                       55.2
FEMALE                                7.9          7.7          8.2                 14.8                       29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7          1.7                 1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBOrION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUREHOLDS                ..           .
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        67.8/.
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..          2
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..          7.3..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..        255.0/h              289.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        180.07i              184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..            . .      251.0/h              519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         80.07h              372.1                      409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (7)
URBAN.                                 ..           ..         14.0/h
RURAL                                  ..           ..         54.97. 
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N o T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1976; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1974; /h 1978; /i 1962; /L  1967.
May 1983



-25-                                                  ANFEX I
Page 3 of5
DEFPINITIONS Or SOCIAL ISICtMSle
Notas   Al thbnah.the el   e d drw   onsuI esgaitalylogd  hesoteuho.                   tteerhtetbt. o  cci-aw  etoedthtthy  arnt e-                           wentec.t
coeeraisbecus  cith   lcof  _txader   eii toeax            ,oxet  ted by di! tcaccatri-             n  olec ld  ti  dta   ti   aeae  toeteas, etlt
desrib  orxc  otI eoitde.  rOifteoend               . co   hrcett   eti       o   i fernce     iexle coun clx..                             tt                   -.
toarefdereoc         ...e eusr  lltOrscc-o acrohebctoctxd IfI  _c....r..tacoattgeaeaeoctathcetrgayeb
sujet  outr  (xcpttc   tghInos'  iltaorar' rop  tccettdde  nccefert at ceen -hdl -tet  isb. c ..sen  hecaee o           strtga  eei-xaitteeoi   t
efllis.   ntertrec   ropdt   i  aede   r  pplto  eite    ctnei    an   o   ahinddo"o  Oa   ny  iesjnayfteaeara   .
got  teas dat  fo   htidccc    lc   i   oeaec                  cre   .nthheld ctcedpnd   x  1ratle I icy of. det .ea  is tt o.itaS., ctrten                          h
- Ttaleotaorare  coprieitd  lend arcedn.d iniend eae 9;f60,                          piscan    uilte  twa edicl   1,e   t ateric e"l
1970 aud 1981 data.                                                                         Pouainprneigfpo      uoatxIedadb   es   tpdeu
1970 and f9t0 data.                                                                         Ppltu   e  erclc1-ttt ubnadrrl-Pplce   er
nor pee OlPtnA (Int  - ceprcpteaiasatccnte,.cpce,rablInulic  n   ent   eee d -spcdkt =dhepicl.1 aed
EitOiioihyiiionersnte-hod ae bond tank bela.. t1lf-ti hls;rhatcaocoes. tspdtels  -ratbLi.h-eta pse_eetly steld
1960, it70i..ad 1991 data                                       .                              b   tlct  npylIas. ftebliehaxerottgptptd catl
tttit tRUnttipfil  PE  CaPITa -Attolapaetnnsato  o   nrcc                                           eis  cextera not peraaotyh stffed by phdycictaa fb. by c sait_
andtwbrralelctrciy)in, dtora   fcetqiaetyt  xiaIpctd      ate   efe of  sdta  faci-tide.  Fo.ctatactal 
POPU(dLATIO  AND V1TAL STATISTiSecardhuptlae  Inlddoxfaartal
Todlpoultin.Mid-Year (tcostel-hao  icy; 1960, 1970, and 1981                                    dtstn   e  ftop.altd-Toa   uhe   fadlsxa  oa   iairs
data.Ifr   hospital._dtntded by th  n-ber of teds.
d.ba fofttnirerrene of totall -- tanl  nyf ra-   t toptalI,,I poeltito;US
Pnpuianlou frofectioxe                                                                 -A hocaebcld cnit  Ifagapo   rllaia~   hr   t gqnr
Ptuatoi   w   Of -CretIplto   rjwlt   n  ds   nlfCadteO  a    el.0 ore   rlde  a  o  a   o   eilddi
deacs.  Thcacaa -clrtyctarti icrcetx teohe.it_e   leads foocuirdface
es    Ifg eln   I   etliycor1gc  its   en    n  ps   ell                             cest   lcrllc(-fcn o   ulIlaI-tta.ara.ad  ae 
planigprtestie.  Eac  tatyisie  espna  one of theenn                                    onn,oa   ullld   theeeiiyl lnn    ar.r        exaa
S1toebtoxtta  fecaiyaffri dir tre,frrnwto   otw.nfttl   ea.an   ua u_l apciay
nnaioar    'ttlato-laaetloar  ppuatonchertano9ra-
a tot te brttcrat  isen-itc  he  eanIIrt. sod alo  cxae                      icoe
st Tctryeitnaan             hsi   ciedol   tr   etllyes                                 dotdtrletttn
d_itrtchreianac    henic     cctoecdctot-cftxatrcPiefcho-oa.aiadeeltrnna,.seetaa
eaidotc o-fae  rpae   ial   ecl.   h   ttoer                                                    no_   n  o   l    a a   h   tiet   ee   s  etcsa  e   esci
poeaitea   e   siaa   not  ei   ftepoetd  arte-                                       oxn   colaeppltos   orxl   eidseids   gd41
far elx. he. ' Mi-ya  pultion per a20r00ilosce  1101i lcre  Iof                                 phnfsgnrl  ectoa    r ech  tenn    neris   s
total are  iftO.  970. an  1900 das.                        popit usuall  of Ii t  If reas of sgecorrsspndeme cersea If
Far    ! so Ia  dlatnlln      upcda   ica  o   tlotrlln                                           enai        ldd
itsr laoeiut far lybi,                                                                            b:.-0  ed90f.  epnin   ee
poplaios 0cr   1570-ti, d 1 190-0, ad 190-8.                                             pafanap       tte  adul  poplaio  aged         t I ys    sd aer
Crue frt  Der eerthusadl - anul  ie d    ri  par thocau_o of .00y-t  I   g;                                                                                  .
fear 0opi 1970t inbd 1970, ad..                                                                                                 Id1dt.Cdiefo
bad  Deth ateIpo  cbaa tdf-foe.     atspctoao   ri-erPaetc   as(e  thodan  peais-on  - asngecraopa    ae
fetlt   aes   sa-    ie-enasae  ending in, 1960  1970,end                                     drtcetcttr- lph oprtesx   fepttte   sldsa
prograc.             dTV -aecs%8.                                                                - teer (pa  ca -ex  pauoit     Taenr   arbxdatt
f-in6lnoc   -    9sro Ip ,,so 0 , earned nose . - fahoanteg  of orIxd                 teea  pti  dsr tuadPa.puIstino  sot tusa  aieed7   ase
:19 o  un   ruo1ot*  Cyca(99-I alO --d9 (de  ofper60                  it 19ohldodI Ic                         (P-cfptxr ifh tfectaiAdgnea   Ief    t  aoaiee
tdeca.                                                                                    100l F1t0
Pe coc-sop    t aore  -crcn             ufretreettl-, Cupcdtu                               otl(ottre   hced                    - cuoToalene  paso, b c, da  ea
angyyunxso    e  arfod  uplessntlbt   tcunrfyer aic  fr                           ore  end  tealoe  ho-dd.tgbonna  eoat,ec,c re
da.   ntibt   ufIlscufis  dss icfodoin,  aure-ee                                       upoacrn  f.l.ee..-..icxn   nerru   o.ces Tae  e
FW xpoDxte,  td  hne   aaot.Dcaflc   xld   nalne,aca IOearNlt YitO  190 Ann, lTVi Odfi_
riontcln  ued  n  on  frcectn,  cd  naea In d dltiolo.Ptlsp-rrt  _eai,ao   ocsa   aretg   f  oe  ab_trs
Pe4a.  asptyo7rcic(rt   a day) - frotaiccuttec61 t65    of70per ca8l to                           970enb191 dta
re   orl   ffodprdy    enepl   tfn  t   aIxa    bot                                          attlaio   aeIe             y-c     aa   eie.adfel-Fraxacee
e-nndard      d ar IortaI  hu    f7  fn  o   oa   rti fod fddowa_tfl_ciot  ge-se Bc."cre oftxpplto,ea  ta   irted
Thid tddfun  Suet; 161tI,197  ed 110laI.toof di-ponDeco  ttD - -bOiot                                                     oatoudr1 --andt  n tenth
Percrit rroeioo        byrtr I.tlel-d   phyisa- ,- _o,ioolntcdteoaieorc
deolnd hfro  enhe-e ed pttitg freed parday; l_i-bi, 197  end 197
dt.v  id_cottert cII..l7..Iob-f ot1,                                                                                                             ftrton      _"
CIl Iae d-lDo  tte(a  haedI-Analdoh   e   huodI                                             I  ondeu   rlaoluoxIbt  ncs   o dd      eenlb  ihs
orifTo                                                                            pansoyn d    .dID    -    r -ot otuc
fl~aecaoyt itlyeal-oearreaotoraolleraitt                                               Ilfoi-blticaeetterrcearadonfp   rtinl                                       a
at bItc; 1900,tOO an  P901 deo dhcidh  nefroaat  (u   raienut
Infunfcraleytac  (arthoaadt-P he.ca  rtsc  if.toIn  n                                 elae  ptc.e...trIoe  cul(i   e cet)-ohe   a   ae
fec  tog   ertotof  Ir  tch;  90,ifOad  91  ae.oenoo   OOry   oseIuc   t  ht  rtee  eelblu  ttr  aetla
Occese of JSafn    - mate ( o _t of poultIn  -f _oa.1p-pbati and  23otal-                      tcfotnly  dqaede  pleseatlaf to-rad  reure                            tent
-foabr'I fxop-lr toe,obct  n   uslncraoeisoeecor                                               fodt
nceratclfliolodsetaucedaffareethara1d orotrpeat.d bctttatdseternrcucee,e(iwoat1ahuee
nhers of th  hodehit do otfen tobl    196. Mnd  a detruridnte  ar o
rurl-   ahr o  y  lyt .total  urbn,     b- fel  seined Ifyoton--e   J
andtiolt  ncaltttne                                                                                                                        ny   d8



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
HtNIgRAS - ECONIIC INDICAIOS
Population:     3.8 (mid-1981. sillions)
GNP per Capita: US$ 600 (1981)
Indicator                  (million US$              Share of CDP at Market Prices (X)                  Average Annual Increase (X)
at current prices)                (at current prices) (a)                         (at constant prices)
1982          1960    1970    1980    1981    1982    1983   1960-70   1970-75    1975-80   1980-83
ND.TIONAL ACCOUNTS
.rosa domestic product (a)        2,802          100.0       100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0      4.7       2.3       7.3      -0.4
Agriculture                       691           33.S    29.4    25.3    24.9    24.6    24.4          4.6      -0.9        6.7      1.5
Industry                          656          17.1    20.2    23.4    23.6    23.4    26.1           5.0       3.9       8.2      -0.8
Services                        1,168          39.5    40.8    40.3    41.0    41.6    39.6           4.7       3.8        6.5     -0.6
Cmstnption                         2,351          87.7    85.7    81.2    86.1    87.7    87.2           5.1       2.7        7.4     -2.2
Gross Investment                     508           13.9    20.9    26.2    21.2    14.5    15.1          8.5       0.8       12.5    -20.4
Exports of GNFS                      767          21.4     V.3      3/.9     32.9    26.7    26.0        8.9      -0.3        9.2     -1.5
Imports of GNFS                     824           23.0    33.9    45.3    40.2    28.9    28.3          11.0       1.2      11.7    -16.1
Gross National Savings               278          14.8    11.5    13.5        9.8     6.2      8.6       0.4     -1.2        3.3
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983 (p)
PRICES
GDP deflator                                     100.0    10.8   125.7   134.9   145.9   156.8    165.1  177.8   188.9
Exchange Rate                                      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0       2.0    2.0       2.0
Export price index                                100.0   117.4   152.8   148.0   148.9   167.3    159.5  152.3   149.2
Import price index                               100.0   107.9   119.4   128.9   150.4   176.5    173.0  179.4   191.8
Terms of trade index                              100.0   108.8   128.0   114.7    99.0    94.8         92.2   84.9    7/.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade-(2)                        Average Annual Increase (i)
(at current prices) (a)                                 (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1981    1982               1960-70   1970-75    1975-80   1980-85
Erports                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  12.5     -0.5       11.6       1.0
Primary                                94.6    71.1    72.7    72.3    73.7    79.3                   8.6     -1.1       11.3       2.8
Manufactures and others                 5.4    28.9    27.3    27.7    26.3    20.7                  34.2       1.9       12.4     -5.0
Imports                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  16.2     -3.1        8.5      -5.1
Food                                   21.9     6.4    11.0       8.2      8.0      8.1              -9.0       8.5       6.9      -7.2
Petroleui                               8.2     6.6    16.7    16.5    16.7    23.1                  31.5    -11.4       -0.9       0.7
Capital Goods                             19.6    30.0    27.0    25.2    22.4    17.7                  19.2       0.6      10.5    -11.9
Others                                    50.3    57.0    45.3    50.1    52.9    51.1                  16.5     -2.6       10.3      -3.0
As X of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983 (p)
PUSLIC FINAHCES (b)
Current revenues                       10.9    13.1    13.7    14.6    15.2    14.0    13.5          13.1
Current expenditures                   9.5    10.9    12.9    12.0    14.6    15.3    14.7           16.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)              1.4     2.2      0.7      2.4      0.6    -1.2    -1.2       -2.9
CaLpital expenditures                   2.5     4.5      6.1      6.2      5.7      3.6     4.5       6.6 (c)
Foreign financing (net)                 1.1      0.9     3.9      3.3      5.0      4.8     5.2       4.7
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-83(p)
OTER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                     4.7     3.1      5.9    -0.3
GPP per capita growth rate (X)          1.5    -0.1      2.5    -3.7
Electricity consuption growtb rate (%)   14.9-    13.8    11.7    11.8
IRDl                                      3.6      9.9      3.8
Imp)rt elsticity                          2.3      1.6      1.4    -0.6
(a) At market prices; copnents are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
(b) Central Governent only.
(c) Includes loas to CONADI for interest payments an its external debt arrears.
(p) Prelimina-
April 1984



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
HONDURAS - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions of US$ at current prices)
Population:       3.8 (mid-1981, millions)
GNP per Capita:  US$ 600 (1981)
Indicator                                                               Actual 
1970   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983(p)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services            199    351    463    594    706    859    967    903    768    795
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           178    310    412    530    626    756    850    784    673    690
Imports of goods and services            269    481    581    737    881  1,071  1,306  1,233  1,014  1,024
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           203    372    432    550    654    /83    954    899    681    687
Net transfers                              6      17      13      14     18      20      22      28     26      28
Current Account Balance                  -64   -113   -105   -129   -157   -192   -317   -302   -220   -201
Private direct investment                  8       7       5      9      13      28       6     -4      -3       2
MLT loans (net)                           26      93      80    114    138    166    241    208    159    172
Official                                27     88      57      /1    109    106    131    1/5    139    179
Private                                -1        5     23      43      29      60    110      33      20      -7
Other capital                             21      67      50     26      16    -19       16      26    -42      -8
Change in reserves (- increases)           9    -54    -30    -20    -10         17      54      72    106      35
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                       29    112    103    144    1/9    238    216    276    223
Official grants                          -      13      10     10      13      14      14     19      22
Concessional loans                      17      17     21      34      6/      58     62      /3    101
IDAC                                 7      12      10      10      17     15      18      33      58
OPEC Special Fund                    -       -       5       -      -       -       -       -       -
IDA                                  2       2       2       3      8       6      18      13       3
Other                                8       3       4      21     42      37      26      29      40
Non-concessional loans                  12      82     72    100       99    166    200    184    100
Official exports credits             -      22      13      16     21      20      12      40      13
IBRD                                10      13      13      22     25      26      24      30      47
Other multilateral                    2     39      19      14      13      9      53      2/      10
Private                              -       8      27      48     40    111    111        87      30
r           External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          90    264    344    458    595    763    991  1,234  1,385
Official                            86    244    301    372    481    580    713    863  1,003
Private                              4      20      43      86    114    183    2/8    3/1    382
Undisbursed debt                        54    185    246    352    315    506    /25    722    660
Debt service
Total service payments                   6      1/     29      42      60    108      98    121    140
Interest                             3      10      15      22     31      46      59      77     97
Payments as % exports                    2.8    4.7    6.2    7.0    8.4   12.7   10.8   13.8   18.2
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (%) 4.1    5.9    5.7    4.2    7.7    7.8    7.0   10.4    6.9
Average Maturity of New Loans (yrs)   29.6   19.4   22.6   28.8   16.0   20.7   23.8   19.7   22.7
(p) Preliminary.
March 1984



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS a,   (Net of cancellations)
(As of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit   Year         Borrower              Purpose             Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
No.                                                                    (US$ millions)
Fifteen loans and eleven credits fully disbursed.               130.0    80.0                                       4
(1341    1976   Government             ) Seventh                28.0      -            1.3
(1342    1976   Government             )   Highway               7.0      -            0.3
(1395    1977   Government             ) Third Port (Puerto    5.0        -            0.2
(1396    1977   Empresa Nac.Port.    )    Castilla)              7.0      -            0.3
( 696*   1977   Government             )                         -        5.0*         -
777    1978   Government                Second Education        -       5.0          1.1
1576    1978   Government                Regional              10.5      -            1.5
Development
(1629    1978   Emp. Nacional de    )  Nispero                  30.5      -            0.5
Energia Electrica )      Power
1659    1979   Government                Lndustrial Credit    15.0        -           0.9
1673    1979   Government                Tourism               19.5       -         11.1
(1805    1980   Emp.Nacional de       )  Eighth Power          105.0      -           38.4
(                  Energia Electrica )      (El Cajon)
989*   1980   Government            )                          -       20.0*         -
(1833    1980   Government            )   Second Agricul-       20.0      -            4.5
(1005*   1980   Government            )     tural Credit         -        5.0*         -
1861    1980   Government                Petroleum              3.0      -            1.9
Exploration
Promot ion
1901    1980   Government                Eighth Highway        28.0      -           13.1
2075    1981   Government                Second Industrial    30.0       -           25.5
Credit
2284    1983   Government                Third Agricultural   45.0       -           44.9
Credit
Total                                                 483.5    85.0
of which has been repaid                             54.6     2.7
Amount sold                      4.5
of which has been repaid      4.5                      -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA a/                     428.9    82.3
Total undisbursed                                     144.4      1.1       145.5
Total now outstanding                                 284.5    81.2
a/ Lncluding exchange adjustnment.
* Fully disbursed credits which were part of loan packages still under execution are
itemized for clarity.  However, they are included in the eleven fully disbursed
credits totalling US$80.0 million.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Loan   Equity   Total
Year                  Obligor                 Type of Business           (US$ millions)
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos Centro-             Tannery               0.30    0.08    0.38
americana S.A. (ECCASA)
1969/70    Cia. Pina Celulosa de                Pulp and Paper         -      0.08    0.08
Centroamerica (COPINO)
1978       Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A.            Textiles & Fibers    9.00    1.00   10.00
de C.V.
Total gross commitments                                   9.30    1.16   10.46
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                               6.90    0.16    7.06
Total now held by IFC                                     2.40    1.00    3.40
Total undisbursed



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:         2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                              DIMA with assistance
from consultants;
SANAA in consulta-
tion with the Bank
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                   February 1981
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:                   May 16, 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                       March 12, 1984
(f)  Date planned for loan effectiveness:              September 1984
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) As a condition of effectiveness, the MC would formulate a financing
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for its operations excluding DIMA
(paragraph 56);
(b) The MC would assure implementation of measures for strengthening of
DIMA's operations and management (paragraph 47);
(c) By no later than September 30, 1984, SANAA would appoint a project
manager whose experience, qualifications, and terms and conditions
of employment are satisfactory to the Bank, and together with the
Ministries of Health, Finance and Public Credit, Natural Resources,
and Government and Justice, would establish a steering committee
(paragraph 49);
(d) The Bank would disburse for retroactive financing of contracts
valued at about US$400,000, to cover costs incurred since May 1983
related to beginning construction of three wells and related
consulting services (paragraph 55);



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The MC would prepare, for review with the Bank, semi-annual
financial forecasts, and would take all necessary action to ensure
that its revenues would cover its total obligations (paragraph 56);
(f) The MC would assure that DIMA would implement all agreed actions to
strengthen its financial position (paragraphs 60-61);
(g) The MC would assure that a study would be completed and submitted
to the Bank no later than December 31, 1987, which would evaluate
the health hazards associated with the continued use of polluted
Rio Sauce water for sugarcane irrigation, and that DIMA would
implement actions as agreed with the Bank to alleviate the problems
no later than June 30, 1988 (paragraph 65);






lARD 17457
A-o Dooe ,S0 /noke                                  r         '9E                                  NOVEMBER 983
XTS                   ~~~\    1BEJI2T
HON DU RAS                                                                                                           /ATEMA A
WATER  SUPPLY  AND  DRAINAGE   PROJECT                                                                                                                            Re [ros Smoke                                                                               / EL4 T'g gAo     -
San  Pedro Sula Metropolitan Area                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALVADO  / NICARAGUA
So SATTOO -lao                                                       -10~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~    ~       ,COSTA                           TO'
)!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TeSp                                                                                                Reeoo                                 :-                                                -    ~-       r      -i:Top...; :  | .. 
'    ''''   0  ,  -  X '' -< '-'s,.s,,O ,'. '<                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0m          c
Water    Moins   < 12  and  l=rnerl                                                         ;               ,  f        '                        i            '    ,eo                           . o <;00'        85
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~- ____    Wel -olco                                                                                                                                                           ___________.                                     __.
C KA'M    L E                                                                             )        L                                                 - N
W.,., V.-  12" --d'                                                         -       'FrI                                                                      -       
-                                                                                                            r                                                                           I~~.- (0     -
.. . .        - .        W . . .e . M to,,, te (12e c                                            o r   --d    l                                     Sv ee  y   esetl0- 
Wet.  MO       M.lO,dtr- ,
*           0         8eevos
O           0         Well,                                                                                                                                                                
t5          t         Prr,pr,rg Set,orren
rffi1       [E1        Ch ooToTrTT   STOTrOTS                                            KIIOMFTERS                                     Fe t-
-  .-      SRICUIR    B --,          -
Uoo Cpo:esoerl    U-er   A or'tee V,r,,Eorour,,e,,s, r sor ro,,,r SS..  L4b{
- - -    reeAr eoR r,o rr B Udotye               Cenel  MrRm OeTor, sodo ,U ,T -rooor-rrrnie',O,F#r n   JAsTT ra,o  RUOATo o,rr,,                                                                                                                ,,
_~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  U,,,rp o r __.    ,o,o,o- _   _._                    .  .rr   __.                                                              __-,,,-e-d ,



