DOCUME NTS           LOAN NUMBER 2421 HO
SANAA Project Agreement
(Water Supply and Drainage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SERVICIO AUTONOMO NACIONAL DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS
Dated                                ,1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2421 HO
SANA  PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Net       7 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after  called  the  Bank) and    SERVICIO  AUTONOMO  NACIONAL  DE
ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS (hereinafter called SANAA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between  the  Republic   of  Honduras  (hereinafter  called  the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million six hundred thousand dollars ($19,600,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, .but
only on condition that SANAA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SANAA, a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan, as provided for under the Loan Agreement, will be made
available to SANAA on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS SANAA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section  2.01.   SANAA  declares  its   commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set forth in paragraph (c) of the
Preamble to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end


﻿- 2 -
shall carry out Part H of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SANAA in carrying out Part
H (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, SANAA shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be  selected   in  accordance  with   principles  and   procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency', published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. SANAA shall cause all services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the purposes of Part H (1), (2) and (3)
of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SANAA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, reports, contract documents and work
schedules for Part H of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such derail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) SANAA   shall:  (i)  maintain   records  and  procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part H of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to he derived from
it), to identify the services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and to disclose their use in such Part of the Project; (ii)
enable  the   Bank's  representatives  to  visit  the  facilities
included in such Part of the Project and to examine any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning such Part of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by SANAA of any contract for services to
be financed olt of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish
a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part H of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or


﻿- 3 -
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SANAA
and the Bank, SANAA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
such Part of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by SANAA and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the SANAA Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) SANAA shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SANAA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. SANAA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SANAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, SANAA shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the SANAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) SANAA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
H of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the SANAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) SANAA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part H of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by SANAA of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the SANAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. SANAA shall, not later than February 28, 1985,
employ a project manager whose qualifications and experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.08. SANAA shall, not later than February 28, 1985,
establish a Steering Committee under the coordination of the
General Manager of SANAA and consisting of one representative
each of the Borrower's Ministry of Health, Ministry of Government
and Justice, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Natural Resources


﻿through its Water Resources Division, and the Consejo Superior de
Planificacio'n Economica, such Committee to provide interministe-
rial coordination and policy guidance for carrying out Part H of
the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SANAA
Section 3.01. SANAA    shall carry   on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SANAA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SANAA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) SANAA shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. SANAA shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statoments of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate


﻿-5-
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SANAA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify SANAA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SANAA:
Servicio Autonomo Nacional
de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
Apartado Postal 437
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable Address:
SANAA
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of SANAA may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of SANAA or such other person or persons as the
General Manager of SANAA shall designate in writing, and the
General Manager of SANAA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence  of   the  authority  and   the  authenticated  specimen
signature of each such person.


﻿- 7 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                .
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SERVICIO AUTONOMO NACIONAL DE ACUEDUCTOS
Y ALCANTARILLADOS
ByizedRepresentative
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day ofj4 98-f.
FOR SECRETARY


