OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 2421 HO
DOCUMENTS
Municipality Project Agreement
(Water Supply and Drainage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALIDAD DE SAN PEDRO SULA
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2421 HO
MUNICIPALI   PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     7        , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and MUNICIPALIDAD DE SAN PEDRO SULA
(hereinafter called the Municipality).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between   the  Republic  of   Honduras  (hereinafter  called   the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million six hundred thousand dollars ($19,600,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Municipality agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Municipality, a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan, as provided for under the Loan Agreement,
will be made available to the Municipality on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to- this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Municipality declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of the Preamble to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to


﻿- 2 -
this end shall carry out, through DIMA, DIMA's Sub-project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices, and in
accordance with the provisions of the Acuerdo Municipal.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist the Municipality in
carrying out DIMA's Sub-project, the Municipality shall, through
DIMA, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981. The services of consultants employed
pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be assigned to
DIMA.
(b) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) above,
the Municipality shall, through DIMA, not later than February 28,
1985, employ: (i) a consultant responsible for DIMA's finance and
accounting; and (ii) a consultant responsible for DIMA's engi-
neering and operations, all of whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(c) The Municipality shall take all measures necessary to
facilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their
services under DIMA's Sub-project and shall make available to
them all such information as shall be necessary for the success-
ful execution of DIMA's Sub-project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for DIMA's
Sub-project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Municipality undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Municipality to replace or repair
such goods.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The Municipality shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of DIMA's
Sub-project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Municipality shall, through DIMA,
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for DIMA's Sub-project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Municipality shall: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of DIMA's
Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in DIMA's Sub-
project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in DIMA's Sub-project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank, through DIMA, at regular intervals, not less frequent than
semi-annually, all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning DIMA's Sub-project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Municipality of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of DIMA's Sub-project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Municipality and the Bank, the Municipality shall, through DIMA,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of DIMA's Sub-project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by the Municipality and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Municipality Project Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-4-
(e) The Municipality shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of the Municipality, including
any asset assigned to DIMA in accordance with the provisions of
the Acuerdo Municipal, and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. The Municipality shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Municipality Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
including those of making available to DIMA, for the purposes
of the Project, the proceeds of the Loan relent to the Munici-
pality thereunder. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Municipality shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Municipality Susidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Municipality shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the pro-
gress of DIMA's Sub-project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Municipality Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) The Municipality shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Municipality of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Municipality Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Municipality shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to: (a) acquire as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities under DIMA's Sub-
project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
DIMA's Sub-project; and (b) acquire, maintain and renew licenses,
consents, franchises and other rights as may be necessary for
carrying out DIMA's water supply, sewerage and drainage services.
Section 2.09. The Municipality shall not, without the prior
approval of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its properties or assets required for the efficient
operation of DIMA, and shall not, without the prior approval of


﻿- 5 -
the Bank, transfer, or assign, other than to DIMA, any of the
Municipality's rights related to the provision of water supply,
sewerage and drainage services in the San Pedro Sula Metropolitan
Area.
Section  2.10. The   Municipality   shall, not   later  than
June 30, 1985, take all such measures as shall be necessary or
advisable to ensure that: (a) DIMA's records of private wells for
water consumption are updated; and (b) DIMA's registration and
fee collection procedures for such wells are strengthened, all in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.11. The Municipality shall, through DIMA: (a) not
later than February 28, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its review and comments a cost recovery mechanism to generate
revenues necessary to cover operating, maintenance and invest-
ment costs of DIMA's drainage services; and (b) not later than
November 30, 1985, after having taken into account comments of
the Bank thereon, put into effect such mechanism.
Section 2.12. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Municipality shall, through DIMA, from time to time take all
measures as shall be necessary or advisable to ensure that, at
the applicable fiscal year's end, the proportion between DIMA's
accounts receivable and month-sales for fiscal year 1985 and each
fiscal year thereafter, shall not exceed the coefficient stipu-
lated below in respect of each respective fiscal year:
1985                4.0
1986                3.3
1987 and            3.0
thereafter
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
amount billed by DIMA on account of services shall be divided by
12, and the quotient so obtained shall be divided into the value
of accounts receivable for the year in question.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section, the
term "services" means water, sewerage and drainage services
provided by DIMA in the year in question.
Section 2.13. The Municipality shall, through DIMA: (a) not
later than February 28, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its review and comments a water charge policy for unmetered


﻿- 6 -
water consumption; and (b) not later than June 30, 1985 carry out
such policy taking into account comments of the Bank thereon.
Section 2.14. The Municipality shall, through DIMA: (a) not
later than December 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its review and comments the study referred to in Part G of the
Project; (b) based on the recommendation of such study and taking
into account comments of the Bank thereon, agree, not later than
June 30, 1988, on a plan of action to alleviate health hazards
referred to in Part G of the Project; and (c) carry out such plan
of action in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.15. The Municipality shall, through DIMA: (a) not
later than December 31, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its review and comments a plan of action for the billing of and
collection from DIMA's customers to cover expenses related to the
civil works and goods referred to in Part C of the Project; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1986 carry out such plan of action
taking into account comments of the Bank thereon.
Section 2.16. The Municipality shall, through DIMA: (a) not
later than June 30, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for
its review and comments, a study on policies for recruitment,
classification, salary levels, performance evaluation and career
development of DIMA staff; (b) put into effect, not later than
December 31, 1985, recommendations of the study referred to under
(a) above, taking into account comments of the Bank thereon; (c)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1985,
for its review and comments, a study on DIMA's manpower require-
me-nts and trainin; needs; (d) put into effect, not later than
September 30, 1985, recoMmendations of the study referred to
under (c) above, taking into account comments of the Bank there-
on; (e) employ, not later than March-31, 1985, data processing
staff for DIMA whose number, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
and  (f) employ, not later     than February 28, 1985 a human
resoirces manager for DIMA whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Section 2.17. The Municipality shall: (a) not later than
February 28, 1985, take all such measures as shall be necessary
or advisable to ensure that DIMA is organized in accordance with
the provisions of the Acuerdo Municipal; and


﻿- 7 -
(b) furnish to the Bank promptly thereafter: (i) informa-
tion on DIMA's organizational structure; and (ii) DIMA's balance
sheet as of the date of DIMA's establishment, all satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 2.18. The Municipality shall: (a) not later than
February 28, 1985, furnish to the Bank a plan of action for the
settlement of its outstanding bills for water supply, sewerage
and drainage services owed to DIMA; (b) not later than June 30,
1985 carry out such plan of action taking into account comments
of the Bank thereon; (c) pay its current bills for water supply,
sewerage and drainage services owed to DIMA promptly when due;
and (d) take all such measures as shall be necessary or advisable
to ensure that DIMA, not later than March 31, 1985, completes
installation of meters to measure water consumption by the
Municipality.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DIMA
Section 3.01. (a) The Municipality shall take all such steps
as shall be necessary or advisable to enable DIMA to carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Acuerdo Municipal and with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Municipality shall enable DIMA to cause the
position of the General Manager to be filled at all times with a
person whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Municipality shall take all such steps as
shall be necessary or advisable to ensure that DIMA at all times
operates and maintains its plants, installations, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
Section 3.03. The Municipality shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory


﻿- 8 -
to the Bank, for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Municipality shall maintain records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, DIMA's
operations and financial condition, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statement of expenditures.
(b) The Municipality shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statement of expenditures, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Municipality shall:
(a) have the separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01
of this Agreement and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) related
to DIMA's operations, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided;


﻿- 9 -
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request; and
(d) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year
such information, satisfactory to the Bank, as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
of the Municipality for such year.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a)
the Municipality shall from time to time take, or allow DIMA to
take, as the case may be, all such measures in accordance with
the provisions of the Acuerdo Municipal (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the tariff structure or rate levels
for charges DIMA applies for its water supply, sewerage and
drainage services) as shall be required to produce an annual
return on current net value of DIMA's fixed assets of not less
than 4 percent in the fiscal years ending December 31, 1985 and
December 31, 1986, and 7 percent in the fiscal year ending
December 31, 1987 and thereafter.
(b) Not later than September 30, 1985, and not later than
September 30 of each year thereafter, the Municipality shall, on
the basis of forecasts prepared by DIMA, satisfactory to the
Bank, review the adequacy of the tariff structure and rates
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section to enable DIMA to
earn the annual returns referred to in such paragraph and shall
furnish to the Bank the results of such review promptly upon its
completion.
(c) If any review referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section shall show that DIMA would not earn the annual return
referred to under paragraph (a) of this Section in the course of
the fiscal year covered by such review, the Municipality shall
promptly take or cause to be taken all the measures necessary to
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
DIMA's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one-half of the sum of the current net
value of DIMA's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.


﻿- 10 -
(ii) The   term  "net   operating  income" means gross
revenues from all sources related to DIMA's water,
drainage and sewerage services less expenses
related to DIMA's water, drainage and sewerage
operations, including all operating, maintenance
and administrative expenses of DIMA and taxes (or
payments in lieu of taxes), and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of
not less than 3 percent per annum of the average
current gross value of DIMA's fixed assets in
operation. Payments of principal of, and interest
and other charges on, DIMA's Debt shall not be
considered expenses.
(iii) The term "current net value of DIMA's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of DIMA's
fixed assets in operation, less the amount of
accumulated depreciation as stipulated in sub-
paragraph (ii) above, as valued and revalued from
time to time in accordance with sound and consis-
tently maintained methods of valuation and reval-
uation acceptable to the Bank.
(iv) The term "DIMA's fixed assets" means any asset
assigned to DIMA in accordance with the provisions
of the Acuerdo Municipal.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)  the Municipality shall produce for each of its fiscal
years, after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1984, total
revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total
expenses; (ii) debt-service requirements; and (iii) capital
expenditures other than those for DIMA's Sub-project, to the
extent that such expenditures are not financed by borrowings with
an original maturity of more than one year;
(b) before June 30 and December 31 in each of its fiscal
years, after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1984, the
Municipality shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Municipality and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section in respect of such year and the next five fiscal years,
and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review promptly
upon its completion;


﻿- 11 -
(c) if any such review shows that the Municipality would
not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Municipality   shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments to the rates
of the Municipality's taxes and fees) in order to meet such
requirements; and
(d) for the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "total revenues" means the sum of all
taxes, fees, and other sources of revenue.
(ii) The term    "total expenses" means all expenses,
including administration and adequate maintenance
of its services and properties, but excluding
depreciation and other non-cash charges.
(iii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed assets, includ-
ing interest charged to construction.
(iv) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund repayments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges, on debt.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Municipality shall not incur any DIMA's Debt unless the net reve-
nues of DIMA for the twelve consecutive months immediately pre-
ceding such incurrence shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
maximum of DIMA's Debt service requirements for any succeeding
twelve-month period following such incurrence on all DIMA's Debt,
including DIMA's Debt proposed to be incurred.


﻿- 12 -
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) DIMA's Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date
of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into, but only to the extent that the
guaranteed DIMA's Debt shall be outstanding.
(b) The term "net revenues of DIMA" means gross revenues
from all sources related to DIMA's water, sewerage and drainage
operations, adjusted to take account of DIMA's rate levels for
such water, sewerage and drainage operations, in effect at the
time of the incurrence of DIMA's Debt even though they were not
in effect during the twelve consecutive months to which such
revenues relate, less all operating expenses of DIMA, including
expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or
payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation
of assets and interest and other charges on DIMA's Debt.
(c) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on, DIMA's Debt.
(d) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
DIMA's Debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing DIMA's Debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
able to the Bank.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and
until the Closing Date, the Municipality shall not, in respect
of DIMA's operations, undertake, or permit the undertaking of,
capital expenditures accountable to any of its fiscal years which
shall exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000) equivalent, other
than expenditures for the purposes of the Project, unless the
investment plan shall have been approved by the Bank.
For the purposes of this Section, the term "capital expendi-
tures" means all expenditures incurred on account of fixed
assets, including interest charged to construction related to
DIMA's water supply, sewerage and drainage operations.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.07. The Municipality shall, starting with the
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1985, revalue annually DIMA's
net fixed assets to such extent as shall be necessary or advis-
able to reflect adequately, at the time of each such revaluation,
the current value thereof in accordance with a sound and consis-
tently applied method of valuation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.08. The Municipality shall, through DIMA: (a) not
later than December 31, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comment, an evaluation of DIMA's insurance
requirements; and (b) not later than June 30, 1986, put into
effect an insurance program for DIMA taking into account the
Bank's comments on such evaluation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Municipality thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Municipality
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 14 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Municipality:
Municipalidad de San Pedro Sula
Apartado Postal 663
San Pedro Sula
Honduras
Cable Address:
MUNICIPALIDAD DE SAN PEDRO SULA
San Pedro Sula
Honduras
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of the Municipality, may be taken or executed
by the Chairman of the Board of DIMA or such other person or
persons as the Chairman of the Board of DIMA shall designate in
writing, and the Chairman of the Board of DIMA shall furnish to
the   Bank  sufficient   evidence  of   the  authority   and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByB                       /2   4/La
B      Regional Vice President
LatinAmerica and the Caribbean
MUNICIPALIDAD DE SAN PEDRO SULA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
THE SCREDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
under Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Municipality shall, through
DIMA, prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Municipality shall,
through DIMA, provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent each, but in the
aggregate not to exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000) equiva-
lent, and contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials and
vehicles, estimated to cost less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) equivalent each, but in the aggregate not to exceed
five hundred   thousand dollars   ($500,000) equivalent, may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more,
and all contracts for equipment, materials and vehicles estimated
to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
or more:
(a) Before   bids  are   invited, the   Municipality  shall,
through DIMA, furnish to the Bank, for comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Municipality shall, through DIMA, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Municipality and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 18 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure), the Municipality shall, through DIMA, furnish to
the  Bank, promptly after    its  execution  and  prior  to  the
submission  to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not con-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Municipality and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Municipality shall,
through DIMA, inform the Bank of the proposed modification,
waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The
Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Municipality and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day o         198
FOR SECRETARY


