C  W'   C L A T   LOAN  NUMBER  2421  O
C"UMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Water Supply and Drainage Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated    %                         ,1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2421 10
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    CC     4         , 1984, between REPUBLIC
OF HONDURAS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of Parts A, C, D, E, F, G and H (1), (2) and (3) of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to borrow from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (hereinafter called CDC), an amount of
eleven million dollars ($11,000,000) equivalent (hereinafter
called the CDC Loan) to finance Part B of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement between the Bor-
rower and CDC;
(C) the Borrower also intends to receive from the Republic
of France through its Direction des Relations Economiques
Exterieures du Ministere des Finances (hereinafter referred to as
the Ministry) a grant in an amount of three million eight hundred
thousand French Fr;ncs (FF 3,800,000) to assist in the financing
of Parts H (4), (5) and (6) of the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement between the Borrower and the
Ministry.
(D) Parts A through G of the Project and Part H of the
Project will be carried out by the Municipalidad de San Pedro
Sula (hereinafter called the Municipality) and the Servicio
Auto'nomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (hereinafter
called SANAA), respectively, with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Municipality and SANAA the proceeds of the Loan as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Munici-
pality and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and SANAA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Coaditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agrc. ment accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Appli, able to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated Octobur 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Municipality Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and the Municipality of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Municipality Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Municipality Project Agreement.
(b)  "SANAA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and SANAA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the SANAA Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the SANAA Project Agreement.
(c)  "Project Agreements" means the Municipality Project
Agreement and the SANAA Project Agreement.
(d) "Municipality   Subsidiary Loan   Agreement" means   the
agreeme-t to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Municipality pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to ti;ae, and such term includes
all schedules to the Municipality Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)  "SANAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SANAA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreem-nt, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
SANAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f)  "Municipality Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided
for under the Municipality Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "SANAA


﻿-3-
Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under the SANAA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the Municipality
Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  and  the   SANAA  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement.
(h) "San Pedro Sula Urban Area" means the geographical area
which includes the city of San Pedro Sula.
(i) "DIMA" means Division Municipal de Aguas of the Munici-
pality, as it has been organized by the Acuerdo Municipal.
(j) "Lempiras" means the currency of the Borrower.
(k) "SANAA Statutes" means Ley Constitutiva del Servicio
Autonomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados, as approved by
the Borrower's Decreto No. 91, dated April 26, 1961, published in
La Gaceta No. 17382, dated May 23, 1961.
(1) "Acuerdo Municipal" means Acuerdo Municipal para la
Administracion de la Divisi6n Municipal de Aguas (DIMA), as
approved by   the Consejo Departamental de Municipalidades de
Cortes, dated April 10, 1984, published in La Gaceta No. 24302,
dated April 30, 1984, as corrected in La Gaceta No. 24468, dated
November 14, 1984.
(m) "Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in
Section 2.08 of the SANAA Project Agreement.
(n) "DIMA's Sub-project" means Parts A through G of the
Project to be carried out by the Municipality.
(o) "Municipality   Public   Services  Decree"  means   the
Borrower's Decree No. 202-83, dated November 17, 1983, published
in La Gaceta No. 24191, dated December 17, 1983, as amended by
the Borrower's Decree No. 15-84, dated February 16, 1984,
published in La Gaceta No. 24280, dated March 30, 1984.
(p) "Low-Income Neighborhood" means any neighborhood in the
San Pedro Sula Urban Area in which at least 50 percent of DIMA's
customers qualify for category C of DIMA tariff structure in
effect as of the date of this Agreement.
(q) "DIMA's Debt" means all debt incurred by Municipality
for DIMA's water supply, sewerage and drainage services which the
Municipality intends to repay or will have repaid out of revenues
earned by DIMA, and which is maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date of its incurrence.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million six hundred thousand dollars ($19,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required to pay, on such dat, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Municipality
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to forty-eight thousand eight hundred seventy-eight
dollars ($48,878).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.


﻿- 5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the prit.zipal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreemei. is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)   "Qualified  Borrowings"   means:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.10. The following are designated as representa-
tives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:
(a) the Municipality with respect to Categories (1), (2)
and (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(b) SANAA with respect to Category (4) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, th'
Borrower shall cause the Municipality and SANAA to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreements all the
respective obligations of the Municipality and SANAA therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Municipality and SANAA to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan from
time to time allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to
the Municipality under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Municipality, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, providing,
inter alia, that: (i) the principal amount of the Municipality
Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by the Municipality over a period
of 20 years, including therein a grace period of 5 years, in line
with the Amortization Schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;   (ii)  the  principal   amount  of   the  Municipality
Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in dollars and repayable in
Lempiras; (iii) any foreign exchange risk on the Municipality
Subsidiary Loan shall be borne by the Municipality; (iv) the
interest rate on the outstanding balance of the Municipality


﻿- 7 -
Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at a rate per annum equivalent
to the rate payable by the Borrower under Section 2.07 of this
Agreement, together with the corresponding fee and commitment
charge payable under Sections 2.05 and 2.06 of this Agreement,
respectively; and (v) the proceeds of the Municipality Subsidiary
Loan shall be used by the Municipality exclusively in carrying
out DIMA's Sub-project.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Muni-
cipality Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Municipality Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan from
time to time allocated to Category (4) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to SANAA under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and SANAA, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, providing, inter alia, that: (i) the
principal amount of the SANAA Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by
SANAA over a period of 20 years, including therein a grace period
of 5 years, in line with the Amortization Schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (ii) the principal amount of the
SANAA Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in dollars and
repayable in Lempiras; (iii) any foreign exchange risk on the
SANAA Subsidiary Loan shall be borne by SANAA; (iv) the interest
rate on the outstanding balance of the SANAA Subsidiary Loan
shall be payable at a rate per annum equivalent to the rate
payable by the Borrower under Section 2.07 of this Agreement,
together with the corresponding fee and commitment charge payable
under Sections 2.05 and 2.06 of this Agreement, respectively; and
(v) the proceeds of the SANAA Subsidiary Loan shall be used by
SANAA exclusively in the carrying out of Part H (1), (2) and (3)
of the Project.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SANAA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SANAA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, promptly as required, take
all action necessary on its part to enable the Municipality to:
(a) set and maintain a tariff structure and rate levels as
required to enable DIMA to fulfill its obligations under Section
4.03 of the Project Agreement; (b) put into effect, not later
than December 31, 1985, the recommendations of the study referred
to in Section 2.16 (a) of the Project Agreement; and (c) set and
maintain the Municipality's taxes and fees at levels sufficient
at all times to fulfill the Municipality's obligations under
Section 4.04 of the Municipality Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over Its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any -,t its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) iny
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.


﻿- 9 -
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Municipality shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Municipality Project Agreement;
(b) SANAA   shall  have  failed  to  perform   any  of  its
obligations under the SANAA Project Agreement;
(c) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Municipality will
be able to perform its obligations under the Municipality Project
Agreement;
(d) as a result of events which have occured after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that SANAA will be able to
perform its obligations under the SANAA Project Agreement;
(e) a change shall have been made in SANAA Statutes which
would materially and adversely affect the organization, the
operation or the financial condition of SANAA;
(f) a change shall have been made in the Acuerdo Municipal
which would materially and adversely affect the organization, the
operation or the financial condition of DIMA;
(g) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Municipality or for the suspension of its operations;


﻿- 10 -
(h) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SANAA or for the suspension of its operations;
(i) the Municipality Public Services Decree shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived in such a way as to, in
the Bank's opinion, materially and adversely affect the ability
of the Municipality to carry out the Project as set forth in the
Municipality Project Agreement; and
(j) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or the Municipality
or SANAA to withdraw the proceeds of any
loan, grant or credit made to the Borrower or
the Municipality or SANAA for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant  to   the  terms  of  the agreement
providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or the Municipality or
SANAA to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower or the Municipality
or  SANAA   from  other   sources  on   terms  and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower or the Municipality or SANAA under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified     in paragraphs   (a) and   (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower, the Municipality and SANAA;


﻿- 11 -
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) or (f) or
(g) or (h) or (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (j) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Municipality Project
Agreement on behalf of the Municipality has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the SANAA Project Agree-
ment on behalf of SANAA has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)- the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Municipality and SANAA, respec-
tively;
(d) the Bank has been notified by CDC that all conditions
precedent to the first disbursement of the CDC Loan, except for
the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(e)  the Bank has been notified by the Ministry that all
conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the grant to
the Borrower except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled; and
(f) the Municipality has, for the purposes of Section 4.04
of the Municipality Project Agreement, submitted to the Bank a
financial plan satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Municipality Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Municipality, and is legally
binding upon the Municipality in accordance with its terms;


﻿- 12 -
(b) that the SANAA Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by SANAA and is legally oinding upon SANAA in
accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Municipality Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Municipality and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Municipality in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that the SANAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SANAA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SANAA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date J6t9A,      -7  ( 1 q9      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de
Hacienda y Cr_dito Publico of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado en el
Despacho de Hacienda y Credito Piblico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:                       Telex:
HACIENDA                          1308-HACIENDA HO
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 14 -
SCREDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                 2,852,000         100% of foreign
spare parts,                                expenditures and
materials and                               90% of local
vehicles under                              expenditures
Parts A, C, D, E
and F of the
Project
(2) Civil works under          2,507,000         100% of foreign
Parts A, C and                              expenditures and
D of the Project                            25% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'               4,242,000         100% of foreign
services under                              expenditures and
the Project                                 70% of local
except Part H of                            expenditures
the Project
(4) Consultants'                 404,000         100% of foreign
services under                              expenditures and
Part H (1), (2)                             70% of local
and (3) of the                              expenditures
Project
(5) Interest and               6,110,000        Amount due under
other charges                               Section 2.02 (b)
on the Loan                                of this Agreement
accrued on
or before
September 30,
1990


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Fee                           48,878         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                3,436,122
TOTAL                19,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of four hundred
thousand dollars ($400,000), may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2) and (3) on account of expenditures made before that date
but after May 31, 1983.


﻿- 16 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the San
Pedro Sula Urban Area water supply, sewerage and drainage systems
by: (i) eliminating water shortages; (ii) expanding water supply
and distribution systems; and (iii) reducing flooding; (b)
strengthen the institutional and operational capability of DIMA;
and (c) strengthen the institutional and operational capability
of SANAA.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Water Supply Improvements
(1) Construction of about 18 wells and about 3 chlorination
stations and rehabilitation of about 7 wells.
(2) Provision of technical assistance to evaluate aquifer
capacity and to design deep wells.
Part B:   Water Transmission, Distribution and Storage Improve-
ments
(1) Rehabilitation of 2 water intakes and respective water
transmission mains.
(2) Construction of about 46 kilometers of primary water
distribution mains and 2 booster-pump stations.
(3) Construction of 2 distribution storage reservoirs with
a combined capacity of about 30,000 cubic meters.
Part C:   Secondary Water and Sewerage Networks and Service
Connections
(1) Construction of about 15 kilometers of secondary water
distribution mains and about 10 kilometers of secondary
sewerage collectors in the Low-Income Neighborhoods of
the San Pedro Sula Urban Area.
(2) Repair or replacement of defective secondary water
distribution mains.
(3) Installation of about 25 standpipes, about 5,000 water
service connections and about 4,000 sewerage service


﻿- 18 -
connections in the Low-Income Neighborhoods of the San
Pedro Sula Urban Area.
(4) Installation of about 24,000 water meters and about 6
water master meters.
Part D:   Stormwater Drainage Improvements
Construction of about 3 kilometers of a stormwater
drainage interceptor.
Part E:   Leak Detection and Mapping of Water Distribution System
(1) Acquisition and utilization     of  equipment for   leak
detection.
(2) Provision of technical assistance to prepare water dis-
tribution system maps, to set up a leak detection
program and to train DIMA staff in leak detection.
Part F:   Institutional and Operational Improvement of DIMA
(1) Institutional improvement of DIMA through the provision
of technical assistance thereto.
(2) Acquisition and utilization by DIMA of operation and
maintenance equipment for water supply, sewerage and
drainage, including spare parts, materials, vehicles
and a micro-computer.
Part G:   Sugarcane Irrigation Study
Preparation of a study on health hazards associated with the
continued use of Rio Sauce polluted waters for sugarcane irriga-
tion and of a plan of action to alleviate such health hazards
through the provision of technical assistance thereto.
Part H:   Strengthening of SANAA
(1) Strengthening of SANAA by developing a plan of action
to improve its management, operating, accounting and
commercial   procedures   through   the   provision   of
technical assistance thereto.


﻿(2) Formulation by SANAA of financial policies for the
national water supply and sewerage sector through
provision of technical assistance thereto.
(3) Assessment by SANAA of the national water supply and
sewerage sector investment needs and priorities through
the provision of technical assistance thereto.
(4) Evaluation   and   implementation  of  SANAA's  training
program through the provision of technical assistance
thereto.
(5) Preparation and implementation of a program to reduce
water losses in Tegucigalpa, Distrito Central through
the provision of technical assistance thereto.
(6) Preparation of a specific investment project designed
to address the needs and priorities identified in the
assessment included under Part H (3) of the Project.
The Projdct is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1989
through   October 1, 2003                     655,000
On April 1, 2004                                    605,000


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of     A c6198y.
FOR SECRETARY


