Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7896-BA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Public Expenditure Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 3, 2010 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7896-BA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 3, 2010, entered into between BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions 
which the Borrower, through the Entities, has already taken under the Program and which 
are described in Section I  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the 
Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of  thirty one million three hundred 
thousand Euros (EUR 31,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04.  
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
Page  3
2
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE III - PARTICULAR COVENANTS 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower shall: (a) relend an amount of eighteen million seven hundred 
eighty thousand Euros (EUR 18,780,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
Federation under the Federation Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (b) relend an 
amount of twelve million five hundred twenty thousand Euros (EUR 12,520,000) 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to Republika Srpska under the RS Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3.02. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Program, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
ARTICLE IV - PROGRAM  
 
4.01. 
The Borrower, through the Entities, declares its commitment to the Program and 
its implementation.  To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall and shall cause the Entities to promptly 
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the 
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
Page  5
4
5.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in the preceding Section 5.01 occurs and is continuing for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
6.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower and the 
Entities in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework; 
 
(b) 
the Federation Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
the RS Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
6.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
the Federation Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Federation 
in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
the RS Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and RS in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
6.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VII - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
Page  6
5
7.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina. 
Page  7
6
7.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
Trg BiH 1 
71000 Sarajevo 
 Bosnia 
and 
Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(387-33) 202-930 
 
7.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  8
7
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Dragan Vrankic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower, through the Entities, under the Program 
include the following:
 
1. 
The Parliament of RS has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Bank, on targeting of 
cash benefits mandating the targeting to needs. 
 
2. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with a view to: (a) targeting cash benefits by way of mandating targeting to 
needs; (b) introducing a coefficient mechanism for all rights-based benefit 
schemes; and (c) introducing the indexation of all rights-based benefits to 
inflation instead of wage growth. 
 
3. 
The Parliament of RS has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Bank, amending the 
RS Law on the Rights of War Veterans and Families of Deceased Soldiers 
(Official Gazette No. 55/07) with a view to introducing, as of January 1, 2011, 
the targeting to means for the following benefits: (a) disabled war veterans with 
disability level 20% to and including 50%; and (b) all family benefits with the 
exception of children under age 27 who receive full time education. 
 
4. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Bank, 
amending the Federation Law on Rights of Defenders and their Families (Official 
Gazette No. 33/04, as amended) with a view to introducing: (a) as of January 1, 
2011, the targeting to means for the following benefits: (i) disabled war veterans 
with disability level 20% to and including 50%; and (ii) all family benefits with 
the exception of children under age 27 who receive full time education; (b) a 
coefficient mechanism for rights-based benefit schemes under said Law; and (c) 
indexation of rights-based benefits under said Law to inflation instead of wage 
growth. 
 
5. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Bank, 
amending Federation Law on Special Rights of the Holders of Military 
Decorations (Official Gazette No. 70/05) with a view to introducing: (a) income 
means testing as of May 1, 2010; (b) a coefficient mechanism for rights-based 
benefit schemes under said Law; and (c) indexation of rights-based benefits 
under said Law to inflation instead of wage growth. 
 
6. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Bank, 
repealing the Federation Law on Rights of Demobilized Soldiers and their 
Page  10
9
Families (Official Gazette No. 61/06) and providing that benefits extended to 
current beneficiaries pursuant to said Law will cease on April 30, 2010. 
 
7. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Bank, 
mandating the carrying out of eligibility audits for right-
based veterans’ benefits 
and including a detailed plan providing for the implementation of said law based 
on a clear set of priorities for the carrying out of said audits, including, but not 
limited to, a targeted review of all disabled veterans in the disability category of 
60%-80%. 
 
8. 
The Government of RS has adopted an action plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, to improve the carrying out of audits of the current 
status and rights of disabled war veterans, including all disabled war veterans in 
disability categories 1 to 10 and the families of deceased soldiers. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the 
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euros) 
 
(1) Single 
Withdrawal 
Tranche 
 
31,221,750 
(2) Front-end 
Fee 
 
78,250 
 
(3) 
Premium for Caps and Collars  
 
(Amount due pursuant to Section  
 
2.07(c) of this Agreement) 
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
31,300,000 
 
Page  11
10
 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower and the 
Entities; and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank for on-lending by 
the Borrower to the Entities pursuant to Article III of this Agreement; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon deposit of an amount of the Loan into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes and shall cause the Entities 
to undertake that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded 
Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was 
used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Page  12
11
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
P
ayment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15, 
 
Beginning September 15, 2020, to and 
 
including September 15, 2034 
 
3.33 % 
 
On March 15, 2035 
3.43 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
Page  13
12
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  14
13
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Entity” means either the Federation or RS, as the case may be, and “Entities” 
means the Federation and RS, collectively. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Page  15
14
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“Federation” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a constitutive 
part of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
4. 
“Federation Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and the Federation, pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time with the 
Bank’s prior approval, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the 
Federation Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as 
such agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Financing Agreement” 
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
Page  16
15
 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i) 
increase social assistance to the poor, while reducing the fiscal deficit and 
creating fiscal space for poverty-reducing growth; (ii) improve the structure and 
efficiency of public expenditures; and (iii) reduce social contribution rates and 
pressures on private sector wages from faster wage growth in the public sector, 
thereby enhancing private sector competitiveness, set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated March 2, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the 
Borrower’s and the Entities’ commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
8. 
“Republika Srpska” or “RS” means Republika Srpska, a constitutive part of the 
Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
9. 
“RS Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and RS, pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same 
agreement may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval, 
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the RS Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means either the Federation Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval, and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the Federation Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the RS Subsidiary Loan Agreement, collectively. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
Page  17
16
 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Page  18
17
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  
 
(e) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (d) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
