Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4729-BA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Public Expenditure Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 3, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4729-BA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 3, 2010, entered into between BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient, 
through the Entities, has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
forty two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
42,200,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07.  
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
 
ARTICLE III - PARTICULAR COVENANTS 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient shall: (a) relend an amount in Euro equivalent to twenty five 
million three hundred twenty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
25,320,000) out of the proceeds of the Financing to the Federation under the 
Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and (b) relend an amount in Euro 
equivalent to sixteen million eight hundred eighty thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 16,880,000) out of the proceeds of the Financing to Republika 
Srpska under the RS Subsidiary Financing Agreement, all on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3.02.  The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Program, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or 
any provision thereof. 
 
ARTICLE IV - PROGRAM 
 
4.01 
The Recipient, through the Entities, declares its commitment to the Program and 
its implementation.  To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall and shall cause the Entities to promptly 
inform the Association of any situation that would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken 
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in the preceding Section 5.01 occurs and is continuing for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE VI - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
6.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient 
and the Entities in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework; 
 
(b) 
the Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed with 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(c) 
the RS Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(d) 
the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) 
have been fulfilled. 
 
6.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
the Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the 
Federation in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
the RS Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Recipient and RS in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
6.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE VII - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
7.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina. 
 
7.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
Trg BiH 1 
71000 Sarajevo 
 Bosnia 
and 
Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(387-33) 202-930 
 
7.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Dragan Vrankic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient, through the Entities, under the Program 
include the following:
 
1. 
The Parliament of RS has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Association, on 
targeting of cash benefits mandating the targeting to needs. 
 
2. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the 
Association, with a view to: (a) targeting cash benefits by way of mandating 
targeting to needs; (b) introducing a coefficient mechanism for all rights-based 
benefit schemes; and (c) introducing the indexation of all rights-based benefits to 
inflation instead of wage growth. 
 
3. 
The Parliament of RS has enacted a law, satisfactory to the Association, 
amending the RS Law on the Rights of War Veterans and Families of Deceased 
Soldiers (Official Gazette No. 55/07) with a view to introducing, as of January 1, 
2011, the targeting to means for the following benefits: (a) disabled war veterans 
with disability level 20% to and including 50%; and (b) all family benefits with 
the exception of children under age 27 who receive full time education. 
 
4. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the 
Association, amending the Federation Law on Rights of Defenders and their 
Families (Official Gazette No. 33/04, as amended) with a view to introducing: (a) 
as of January 1, 2011, the targeting to means for the following benefits: (i) 
disabled war veterans with disability level 20% to and including 50%; and (ii) all 
family benefits with the exception of children under age 27 who receive full time 
education; (b) a coefficient mechanism for rights-based benefit schemes under 
said Law; and (c) indexation of rights-based benefits under said Law to inflation 
instead of wage growth. 
 
5. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the 
Association, amending Federation Law on Special Rights of the Holders of 
Military Decorations (Official Gazette No. 70/05) with a view to introducing: (a) 
income means testing as of May 1, 2010; (b) a coefficient mechanism for rights-
based benefit schemes under said Law; and (c) indexation of rights-based 
benefits under said Law to inflation instead of wage growth. 
 
6. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the 
Association, repealing the Federation Law on Rights of Demobilized Soldiers 
and their Families (Official Gazette No. 61/06) and providing that benefits 
Page  8
7
extended to current beneficiaries pursuant to said Law will cease on April 30, 
2010. 
 
7. 
The Parliament of the Federation has enacted a law, satisfactory to the 
Association, mandating the carrying out of eligibility audits for right-based 
veterans’ benefits and including a detailed plan providing for the implementation 
of said law based on a clear set of priorities for the carrying out of said audits, 
including, but not limited to, a targeted review of all disabled veterans in the 
disability category of 60%-80%. 
 
8. 
The Government of RS has adopted an action plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, to improve the carrying out of audits of the current 
status and rights of disabled war veterans, including all disabled war veterans in 
disability categories 1 to 10 and the families of deceased soldiers. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The 
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
42,200,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
42,200,000 
 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient 
and the Entities; and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree: 
 
Page  9
8
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association for on-lending by the Recipient to the Entities pursuant to Article III 
of this Agreement; and 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon deposit of an amount of the Financing into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes and shall cause the Entities 
to undertake that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance 
Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount 
of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
commencing September 15, 2020 
 
to and including March 15, 2030 
 
5%
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
10 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Entity” means either the Federation or RS, as the case may be, and “Entities” 
means the Federation and RS, collectively. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
Page  12
11 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
3. 
“Federation” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a constitutive 
part of the Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
4. 
“Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement entered into 
between the Recipient and the Federation, pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time with the 
Association’s prior approval, and such term includes all schedules supplemental 
to the Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and the Bank in 
support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement 
Page  13
12 
 
may be amended from time to time.  “Loan Agreement” includes all appendices, 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i) 
increase social assistance to the poor, while reducing the fiscal deficit and 
creating fiscal space for poverty-reducing growth; (ii) improve the structure and 
efficiency of public expenditures; and (iii) reduce social contribution rates and 
pressures on private sector wages from faster wage growth in the public sector, 
thereby enhancing private sector competitiveness, set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated March 2, 2010 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s and the Entities’ commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
8. 
“Republika Srpska” or “RS” means Republika Srpska, a constitutive part of the 
Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
9. 
“RS Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement entered into 
between the Recipient and RS, pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, as 
the same agreement may be amended from time to time with the Association’s 
prior approval, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the RS 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means either the Federation Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Financing Agreement, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time with the Association’s prior 
approval, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement, and “Subsidiary Financing Agreements” means the 
Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement and the RS Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement, collectively. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  14
13 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
Page  15
14 
 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
 The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
”
