                                                                                                              92415
Fighting the Economic Crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                        July 8, 2005
Given the rapidly changing economic environment in the wake of the global economic crisis, the BH authorities asked the World Bank for
an urgent reprogramming of the lending program to help mitigate the impact of the economic crisis in BH. It was agreed that the following
set of objectives should be pursued:


        Maintain macroeconomic stability and protect the vulnerable through improved targeting of social benefits
        Mitigate the impact of the crisis on the real economy, and Small and Medium-Size Enterprises (SMEs) in particular
        Accelerate implementation of already approved investment projects



 Macroeconomic Stability and the Protection of the Most Vulnerable Categories

The World Bank lending program for 2009-1010 envisages support for the country’s budgets under stress by the drop of revenues caused
by the global economic slow-down, through a Development Policy Loan (DPL) Program approved on April 8, 2010 by the World Bank
Board of Executive Dsirectors – (US$ 111 million in 2010, the first phase of the program that is expected to be continued in 2011-12). The
DPL program would complement the recently approved IMF stand-by arrangement. The main objective of this first phase is to strengthen
the support to the most vulnerable segments of the population by improving the targeting of the various public programs of cash transfers
to individuals (such as child support, civilian invalids, and veteran benefit programs) on the poorest and those most in need. In addition to
budget support, a separate investment project – Social Safety Net and Employment Support Project approved on February 25, 2010 (US$
15 million) will strengthen institutional capacity for the DPL-supported reforms and provide employment services for active job-seekers
among vulnerable categories. Should the BH authorities confirm their commitment to the proposed reform program, these two operations
will be presented to the World Bank Board for approval in early 2010.

                                                                                                                Q&A about the DPL program

 Mitigate the Impact of the Crisis on the Real Economy

A US$70 million line of credit for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) was approved by the World Bank Board in December 2009. The
proposed project aims to support SME’s access to finance, thus preserving and strengthening their market position in the context of the
global crisis, and increasing economic opportunities.

                                                                                                                 Q&A about the SME project

 Acceleration of Implementation of Projects Already Approved

Accelerating implementation of earlier approved projects financed by the World Bank and other development partners is of paramount
importance in time of crisis. These projects are financed either by grants or under highly concessional terms. In addition, it is necessary to
expedite processing of legal documents and reduce the amount of time it takes from approval to effectiveness of development projects.

                                                                                   List of active projects supported by the World Bank in BH
