                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34536

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-71650)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$101.02 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

                                                FOR THE


                              PUBLIC SERVICES AND SOCIAL SECTORS
                            SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                            February 23, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and AUruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 28, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Peso Uruguayo
                                      US$ 1.0 = 24.18

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 - December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANEP     Administración Nacional de la Educación Pública
ASSE     Administración de los Servicios de Salud del Estado
BCU      Banco Central de Uruguay
BPS      Banco Previsión Social
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEP      Consejo de Educación Primaria
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CODICEN  Consejo Directivo Central
FNR      Fondo Nacional de Recursos
GOU      Gobierno de Uruguay
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IAMC     Instituciones de Asistencia Médica Colectiva
IMAE     Institutos de Medicina Altamente Especializada
INE      Instituto Nacional de Estadística
LDP      Letter of Development Policy
MECAEP   Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación Primaria
MIDES    Ministerio de Desarrollo Social
MEF      Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
MSP      Ministerio de Salud Pública
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
OPP      Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto de la Presidencia
PAC      Programa de Actividades Comunitarias
PAE      Programa de Alimentación Escolar
PANES    Plan de Asistencia Nacional a la Emergencia Social
SAL      Structural Adjustment Loan
SSAL     Special Structural Adjustment Loan
SPDPL    Social Program Development Policy Loan
UNDP     United Nations Development Program

                               Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                            Country Director      Axel Van Trotsenburg
                     Sector Manager/Director      Makhtar Diop / Evangeline Javier
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Carlos E. Velez

                                          URUGUAY
                   PUBLIC SERVICES AND SOCIAL SECTORS SSAL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P081495                                                  Project Name: Uruguay Public Services and Social
                                                                     Sectors SSAL
Team Leader: Carlos E. Velez                                         TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 23, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Uruguay Public Services and Social Sectors               L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71650
                            SSAL
   Country/Department: URUGUAY                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (50%); General education sector (50%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Education for the knowledge economy (P); Public expenditure,
                            financial management and procurement (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/12/2002                                     Effective: 04/22/2003
     Appraisal: 11/07/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 04/08/2003                                      Closing: 05/04/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF
                                           URUGUAY/OFFICE OF PLANNING AND BUDGET (OOP)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:        Makhtar Diop                                   Evangeline Javier
Team Leader at ICR:             Carlos E. Velez                                Carlos E. Velez
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Cristina Flood


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

Introduction

The Public Services and Social Sectors Special Structural Loan (SSAL II) was requested by the
Government of Uruguay as part of its strategy to protect its economy and population from the effects of a
severe external shock. This operation supported the Government program to maintain and improve
efficiency and equity of social services, in a context of shrinking public resources and increasing
unemployment and poverty. The loan was part of a wider initiative from international agencies, including
the World Bank, the IMF and the IADB, to help the Uruguay authorities to overcome the negative effects
of the crisis.

The loan was approved on April 8th, 2003, and became effective on April 22nd. The operation totaled
US$101.02 million, to be disbursed in three tranches of US$26.02 million, US$25 million and US$50
million. Being a Special SAL, financial conditions were structured differently than in other loans, with
higher interest rates and shorter maturity terms.

The SSAL II was prepared and approved together with a standard structural adjustment operation (the
Public Services and Social Sectors Structural Loan ­ SAL II, for US$ 151.52 million), which focused on
Public Services reforms. Both loans were linked, as compliance with conditions of SAL II was included as
a condition to release tranches II and III of SSAL II and vice-versa. While progress on social sector
reforms advances as expected, implementation of policies on infrastructure supported by SAL II was
slower, impeding disbursement of tranches II and III of both loans. Meanwhile, the overall economic
situation of Uruguay improved and new and more advantageous financial options became available. In that
context, the Government of Uruguay decided in early 2005, to request the cancellation of the second and
third tranches of SSAL II, for a combined amount of US$75 million.

Nevertheless, and as shown in this ICR, the originally envisaged reforms in the education and health sectors
under SSAL II, were fully implemented. These reforms contributed to maintaining ­ and in part improving
­ public service levels in the aftermath of the economic crisis of 2002. Further, the Bank provided
continued support for these reforms (in addition to others in social protection) through a new Social
Program Development Policy Loan, approved in June 2005. This operation, together with the Country
Assistance Strategy prepared in 2005 outlined the framework for the Bank's support of reforms in social
policies.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the SSAL II was to support improvements in the social sectors in Uruguay, in the wake of
the strong external shocks that hit the economy and public finances in 2001-2002. The two areas where the
program focused its support were:
    (i) Improvement of efficiency and equity in the educational sector - Improvement of efficiency in
    the operation and coordination of educational institutions, and protection of budget allocation for
    educational programs focused on the lower-income population.
    (ii) Improvement of efficiency and equity of public spending in the health sector - Improving the
    quality of services delivered, eliminating regressive subsidies in public hospitals and reforming the
    Fondo Nacional de Recursos (FNR) to assure its governance and its financial sustainability.

Coverage and quality of education and health in Uruguay were already high in terms of regional standards,
and significant reforms had been made in these sectors. In view of the severity of the economic crisis, there
was great need to: (i) increase the impact of dwindling fiscal resources allocated to these sectors, and (ii)



                                                      - 2 -

consolidate the reforms, mitigating the possible negative impact of the crisis on them.

These objectives were expressed in a clear and realistic manner in the program, as they aimed at
maintaining the existing high level of human capital and avoiding a negative impact on the reforms
mentioned as a result of dwindling fiscal resources. They were designed considering the ability of the
country to implement them, and were highly responsive to the country's circumstances and development
priorities.

An additional objective of the SSAL II was to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the SAL I,
namely, the improvement of competition, efficiency and institutional development in the provision of public
services and the infrastructure sector. This contribution was structured by linking both operations. The
assumption was that full compliance with the conditionality of one loan would provide significant
additional incentives to comply with the conditions of the other loan in order to be able to disburse both
operations.

Box 1. Context
The Uruguayan economy had been hit by a series of external and domestic shocks since 1998. As a result, the economy fell into
a prolonged slowdown which ended in a financial crisis and deep recession in the second half of 2002. The country faced a
sharp (about 90%) devaluation of its currency, and the lack of financing placed the economy on the verge of default on its
sovereign debt.
Several external factors contributed to explain Uruguay's recession: (i) poor growth performance of Brazil and Argentina; (ii)
sharp devaluations in Brazil (1999) and in Argentina (2002); (iii) deterioration of the terms of trade (higher oil prices and
lower prices of agricultural commodities); (iv) worsening financial conditions in international capital markets. On the domestic
front, persistently high fiscal deficits (around 4% of GDP), an appreciated real exchange rate, weak financial supervision and
an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease during 2001 contributed to the recession and financial difficulties.
The long recession had a negative impact on poverty levels and income distribution. In particular, poverty grew from 16.7% in
1999 to 23.6% in 2002 and 32.1% in 2004. Despite an improvement in the early 1990s, income inequality worsened during
the 1990s, as the Gini coefficient increases from 0.416 in 1990 to 0.445 in 2001. This was accompanied by a process of social
exclusion, a relatively new phenomenon in Uruguay, which had traditionally been characterized as the most homogeneous
society in Latin America. The unemployment rate grew from 10.1% in 1999 to 17% in 2002.
In this context, in early August 2002, the IFIs provided an unprecedented financial package to support the Uruguayan economy
and help curb the run on banks, insulate the economy from regional contagion, and provide the basis for sustained economic
recovery. The total package (in commitments) between June 2002 and February 2005 were US$ 4087 million, composed by
US$ 2831 million from IMF, US$ 700 million from IADB and US$ 556 million from the World Bank.
The World Bank disbursed US$ 381 million, or almost 70% of the committed amount. In June 2005, after canceling the second
and third tranches of SSAL II, the Bank approved the Social Program Development Policy Loan, a one-tranche operation for
US$ 75 million. This loan supported past and ongoing structural and administrative reforms in education, health and social
protection.



Box 2. Bank Assistance
The 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (June, 2000; Report No 20355-UR) planned for a progressive reduction in Bank
support and a transition to graduation. In view of the adverse circumstances that affected the country, the Bank drafted the
2002 CAS Progress Report (Report No. R2002-0147) as the economic situation deteriorated rapidly. This Report determined
that Uruguay needed additional support to weather the crisis and to introduce reforms ranging from fiscal measures to
increasing revenues and curtailing spending, for bank restructuring, maintaining investment in human capital and strengthening
measures to protect vulnerable groups. The 2002 Progress Report was supplemented with an Update (August, 2002; Document
No. R2002-0147/1). Both proposed adjustment lending as the preferred instrument for increased Bank support to Uruguay
during the crisis. In this context, the Bank provided structural loans, including the Structural Adjustment and the Special
Structural Adjustment Loans approved by the Board in 2002 (SAL I and SSAL I) and the Public Services and Social Sectors
Structural Adjustment and Special Structural Adjustment Loans (SAL II and SSAL II) in 2003. These operations were part of a
concerted multilateral effort (with the IMF and the IADB), to help Uruguay withstand the impact of the strong external shocks
that affected its economy between 1999 and 2002, set the stage for medium and longer term fiscal sustainability, create
conditions for sustainable growth and mitigate the social costs of the crisis.




                                                              - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
The SSAL II policy matrix included the standard provision with regards to macroeconomic stability,
specific measures to support health and educational reforms and a cross-condition linking the second and
third tranches release with advances in SAL II. The specific components for the social sectors are detailed
below:

Component 1: Consolidate and reinforce equity within education programs
As a response to fiscal difficulties, the GOU focused on making adjustments in its general budget, with
some impact on the budgets allocated to social sectors. Consequently, the SSAL II sought to protect the key
education programs from these budgetary cutbacks, where a drop in resources would have had a negative
impact on the population worst hit by the crisis. The programs protected were: (i) "basic school supplies",
which provides materials for classroom activities, (ii) "bilingual education", which teaches English as a
second language in full-time schools; and (iii) "textbooks", which provides textbooks to elementary school
children. The protection implied that neither the quality nor the quantity provided under the programs
referred to could be reduced. Tranche release conditions for this component included amounts budgeted and
executed for each of the three protected programs.

Component 2: Improvement of educational sector efficiency
SSAL II supported the Government's Action Plan destined to improve sector management in order to make
the education sector more responsive to the new fiscal context. The priority areas were: (i) Functional and
administrative organization of the ANEP; (ii) Human Resources Management; and (iii) Integrated Financial
and Accounting Management System. The actions were oriented toward the strengthening of the
information systems, creating systems for administrative files and formal resolutions archival and retrieval,
streamlining administrative processes in Human Resources, and implementing an Integrated Management
and Accounting System. Finally, a new Internal Audit Unit, in charge of control and monitoring systems
was to be created, to reduce irregularities and inefficiencies. Tranche release conditions for this component
included the design and implementation of the proposed reforms and the creation, staffing, and auditing
processes design in the Internal Audit Unit.

Box 3. The Education Sector
Education has been a critical factor in Uruguay's equity tradition. Compared to other countries in Latin America, the education
system produces good results. By 2003, 95% of children were enrolled in preschool at age five, and 90% remained in school to
complete the full primary cycle comprising six grades. Enrollment in secondary and tertiary education has been growing.
Expenditures per student in primary and secondary schools are low compared with other medium income countries in Latin
America. Overall, increased investment in education could yield better results in terms of quality of and equity in education.
The Administration of public education is run by an autonomous institution, the Administración Nacional de Educación Pública
(ANEP), which comprises three quasi- independent councils (for primary, secondary, and technical education). They are
presided by a four-member Central Board (Consejo Directivo Central, CODICEN) appointed by legislative vote, requiring a
2/3 majority. The President of CODICEN (National Director of Public Education) approves the administrative and budgetary
decisions made by each of the councils. As ANEP controls all administrative aspects of the education system in Uruguay,
increases in investment efficiency requires improvements in ANEP's performance. As part of this, SSAL II supported programs
for the modernization of the ANEP and CODICEN.


Component 3: Improvement of public spending efficiency in the health sector
The GOU undertook to respond to the fiscal crisis by increasing the overall efficiency of the health sector
while maintaining, or even improving, the quality and equity of its services. The SSAL II supported the
efforts carried out by the Public Health Ministry, (MPS), to review public spending in the health sector. To



                                                              - 4 -

increase efficiency in and reduce public hospital expenditures, outsourcing of ancillary services for public
hospitals was supported. Tranche release conditions for this component included the definition,
implementation, and evaluation of a framework for contracting out ancillary services in public hospitals.

Component 4: Improvement of efficiency and equity of public hospital expenditures
To reduce subsidies from the public health system to private insurers, the Government advanced with the
implementation of the Single Registry for Formal Assistance Coverage system (Registro Unico de
Cobertura Formal de Asistencia, RUCAF), which was to enable the identification of insured citizens that
demand services from the public health network and the subsequent billing of these services to the
corresponding insurer. The RUCAF was complemented by a public health network user's identification and
information system that classified uninsured patients according to their social conditions and ability to pay,
providing the possibility of charging differential co-payments for ambulatory services and of introducing a
streamlining element for the service demand (ASSE Database beneficiary). This allowed the budgeting
framework for public hospitals to be reformed in order to introduce positive incentives for cost recovery.
Tranche release conditions for this component included the implementation of RUCAF, its use in the design
and implementation of public hospitals budget allocation formulas, and implementation of billing system
for insured patients receiving services at public hospitals.

Component 5: Improvement of the efficiency and sustainability of public expenditures in
high-complexity medical care
High complexity procedures in Uruguay are covered by a special public agency, called "National
Resources Fund" (Fondo Nacional de Recursos), that provides universal coverage for a defined basket of
services. For social security contributors, the FNR is financed by a compulsory monthly capitation
contribution paid by formal sector workers and their employers, while non-contributing individuals covered
by the public ASSE program are financed by fee-for-service payments made by the Ministry of Economy.
The FNR is often referred to as constituting a type of re-insurance mechanism for IAMCs. This is
inaccurate. The IAMC do not assume any risk in the financing or provision of the care managed by the
FNR. Persons with IAMC coverage purchased through the BPS/DISSE pay a separate premium for FNR
coverage (in addition to the contribution they make to their IAMC premium). The BPS simply administers
the monthly FNR contributions, passing them through to the FNR. The services are purchased by the
Fund, using a fee-for-service payment mechanism, and provided by certified medical centers called IMAEs
(Institutos de Medicina Altamente Especializada).. Most of the approximately 50 IMAE are private and
those that account for the largest proportion of FNR services and expenditures are owned by IAMCs.
Three-quarters of FNR expenditures correspond to IAMC affiliates services, while the remaining 25
percent finances services for ASSE beneficiaries. Practices financed by FNR expanded over time, resulting
in an indirect subsidy from the fund to the private insurers and an important financial debt. The SSAL II
(together with operations financed by IADB) supported the deepening of reforms so that the FNR would
achieve financial and operative equilibrium. To this effect, the FNR: (i) was to redefine the procedures for
which it will provide funding to eliminate those that are not high-complexity; (ii) establish new fees for the
procedures to be funded by it; (iii) define utilization rates to control the volume of procedures funded; and
(iv) implement a validation system for service requests with the beneficiary database (RUCAF and ASSE
Database beneficiary). Tranche release conditions included the continued strong financial performance by
FNR, completition of review of eligible procedures to by financed by FNR, and use of validation
mechanism with RUCAF to authorize services.




                                                       - 5 -

Box 4. The Health Sector
 Uruguay has good health indicators, and access to health care (public and private) is almost universal. The Ministry of Health
(Ministerio de Salud Pública, MSP) provides primary health care coverage to 43% of the population. An autonomous
institution, the State-Run Health Care Administration or Administración de los Servicios de Salud del Estado (ASSE), runs the
MSP´s vast network of hospitals, health centers, and clinics providing heath care ­ typically without charge ­ to most of the
poor sector of the population. The National Resources Fund (Fondo de Recursos Nacionales, FNR) provides coverage for all
Uruguayans for a defined set of 16 specific, high-cost medical services. There is a host of other, smaller health care delivery
systems, including those for the armed forces, the police and a number of other state and other public agencies.
Compulsory health coverage for formal workers is provided by specialized agencies called "IAMCs". IAMCs are generally
doctor-owned, doctor-managed organizations that provide an extensive package of health services for a regulated flat fee. In
addition to formal workers, nearly 37% of IAMC´s affiliates are individuals who voluntarily join the system (mostly immediate
family members of formal workers).
The IAMCs system has long been, and continues to be, a major source of health care in Uruguay. Over the past decade,
however, the importance of the IAMCs has diminished and their performance has slipped, as measured by virtually any
membership or service-related indicator. At the same time, their financial position has slowly deteriorated, a trend that existed
for more than a decade, but was accelerated by the economic crisis.
The Uruguayan health care system is costly. In 2003, public and private expenditures in health care were close to 11 % of
GDP, one of the highest ratios in the world. The increasing cost of health services is driven by (i) an aging population; (ii)
fragmentation of the system; (iii) neglect of primary and secondary health prevention within the health care system; and (iv) a
mismatch between the health care services provided by the system and the actual needs of the population. The Government is
designing a major reform proposal to address these problems, through three mains pillars: (i) focus the care model in the
country's epidemiological profile and necessities; (ii) harmonize of programs to solve risk pool fragmentation and reduce costs;
and (iii) ensure financial sustainability of the system. The core proposal is the creation of an Integrated National Health System
(INHS) which would complement public and private health suppliers to guarantee access to the same quality of comprehensive
health services for the whole population. The World Bank will support this reform effort through an investment and technical
assistance loan, currently in preparation


Component 6: Linkage of SSAL II tranches release to performance in SAL II.
The loan agreement also included a cross-linkage with SAL II. The second and third tranches of SSAL II
could only be released once conditions for the same tranches in SAL II had been satisfied. These conditions
included reforms in the infrastructure sector, including specific actions in energy, telecommunications,
postal services, water and sanitation, and transport.

Linkage of component design to objectives
SSAL II was to also set the stage for further reforms to improve the efficiency and equity in social sectors
in the longer run. The social sector management reforms were to generate increased efficiency and
effectiveness in expenditures management, enabling improved tracking and a more efficient allocation of
poverty­related expenditures, thus contributing to the government's goals in terms of poverty reduction.
The components of the SSAL II were reasonably focused to help achieve the objectives of the program
described in section 4.1. They were presented in a simple and concrete manner and they took into account
the capacity of public institutions to implement them.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated as "satisfactory" based on (i) the consistency of the project with Bank and
government priorities, and with the ongoing IMF program; (ii) quality of the design, with a clear focus on
mitigating actions and selection of appropriate instruments; and (iii) the strengthening of financial public
accountability in the education and health sectors.

Quality of the Design



                                                               - 6 -

The quality of the project design was satisfactory. An adjustment operation was suitably selected as the
mechanism for addressing the mitigating action by the Uruguayan government to reduce the impact of the
crisis on the poor sector of the population and maintain the high levels of human resources which currently
characterize the Uruguayan social sectors.

The overall objectives of the SSAL II Program were agreed with the government, which stated its
commitment to the implementation of the macroeconomic and fiscal and social protection objectives, as
reflected in the Letter of Development Policy.

At the time the SSAL II Program was prepared, the World Bank staff made an accurate diagnosis of the
social situation. In particular, it identified the principal risks to which the most vulnerable sectors of the
population were exposed. In addition, the staff had an adequate understanding of the impact that the
macroeconomic and fiscal variables could have on the population with limited resources. On this basis, the
staff designed the SSAL II Program to provide protection to the most vulnerable sectors of the population,
and to improve the efficiency of the important health and education programs to improve and extend their
services without incurring additional expenditures.

The Program was targeted at key areas in the education and health sectors, and had the virtue of mobilizing
the debate on basic structural matters in a complex situation. For example, in the education sector, priority
areas were identified for improvement in the efficiency in the management of the ANEP, establishing the
coordination and functional organization and the setting up of an internal audit unit, setting the basis for
deeper reforms in the future, and demonstrating the potential it offers to the system as a whole.

To help resolve the chronic deficit of the FNR, the SSAL2 supported structural reforms, such as: (i)
changes in the governance structure, increasing the role of government representatives; (ii) review of
eligible procedures list; (iii) implementation of an information system; and (iv) use of the new beneficiaries
registry to validate service requests, limiting fraud and abuse. Also, the program supported actions to allow
ASSE's hospitals to manage the revenues from their own cost recovery efforts, creating incentives for
public hospitals to increase their billing to health insurance providers.

The SSAL II Program made a relevant contribution to Uruguay's return to stability, and triggered
important changes in areas that were traditionally considered structural constraints. In the context of a
rapid deterioration of macroeconomic and social conditions, the program's objectives and conditionality
were well defined and would have been beneficial under any long-term strategy that the government could
implement in the future. Both the general and specific objectives were well targeted to deal with the social
emergency. The social programs selected to be protected from budget cuts were well targeted to mitigate
the social impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable segments of the population.

SSAL II was prepared together with SAL II, a structural adjustment loan that supported reforms in the
infrastructure sector. Aiming at increasing support for both operations, a cross-conditionality was added to
each loan agreement. Thus, all conditions set as triggers for both loans had to be satisfied before tranches
could be released in either of them. This design feature proved critical for SSAL II, as delays in
infrastructure reforms blocked disbursements from both SAL II and SSAL II.

Assessment of Risks
The assessment of risks and their mitigation under the SSAL II Program is rated as adequate. The
following three types of risks were considered: (i) macroeconomic risks; (ii) risk of weakening of Reform
Consensus; and (iii) institutional weakness risk.




                                                         - 7 -

Macroeconomic Risk. The further deterioration of the economic situation in Argentina, and the risk of
further complications in the Brazilian economy could have undermined measures taken to stabilize the
Uruguayan economy by thwarting efforts to curb the run on the banks and exacerbating fiscal problems.
The overall macro and debt sustainability risks were high, and if any of these risks had materialized, the
objectives of the Program would not have been achieved. The macroeconomic performance was closely
monitored by the IMF, facilitating the supervision of SSAL II.

Risk of Weakening of Reform Consensus. Since its return to democracy, Uruguay's political process has
been dominated by a careful, consensus-building approach. The consensus­based approach was given legal
status in 1989, when Law 17244 regulated the procedure to repeal approved laws through referendums.
The Government, through Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto, (OPP), Ministerio de Economía y
Finanzas, (MEF) and other ministries, supported the reforms proposed in SAL II and SSAL II, but the
deep economic crisis increased political opposition to the implementation of public services and
infrastructure related reforms. In this case, the risk became a reality and compliance with the terms of the
second and third tranche of SAL II were delayed, as a referendum and a Constitutional amendment made
some of the proposed reforms unfeasible. This had a direct influence on SSAL2 given the
cross-conditionality for subsequent tranche releases as described above.

Risk of Institutional Weakness. This risk was based on the fact that several institutions (ANEP,
CODICEN, ASSE, FNR, MSP) were involved in the execution of the SSAL II Program, together with the
implementing agency (OPP), which had overall responsibility for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of
the program. The function of OPP was central to the success of the reform program but complicated by the
fact that OPP did not have line authority over the implementing departments with the health and education
administrations.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome rating for SSAL II is "satisfactory" since all planned reforms were implemented in
full and it achieved all its key objectives of maintaining and improving social service delivery in the
aftermath of the economic crisis, despite the fact that the Loan was finally cancelled at the request of the
GOU. The incorporation of the cross-conditionality with SAL II prevented disbursements under the second
and third tranches, despite the fact that the social conditions had been accomplished in full. The Bank did,
eventually, continue its support for the structural reforms in the education and health sectors through the
Social Program Development Policy Loan.
The overall evaluation of the social objectives is rated as satisfactory because: (i) Uruguay took advantage
of the opportunity provided by the crisis to make progress in the structural reform program, particularly in
macroeconomic actions and public finances; and (ii) the education and health reforms were strengthened
through better management, increased efficiency and the effective protection of socially-critical budget
allocations. Social service delivery indicators were maintained or improved during the lifetime of the
operation, in spite of the macroeconomic and fiscal problems and the growth in poverty and unemployment
during the period.




                                                       - 8 -

                             Table 1. Selected Social Indicators, 1998-2004


                                                 1999       2000           2001         2002        2003       2004


       Poverty Incidence %                           16.7         17.8         18.8          23.6        30.9    31.2

       Unemployment rate (INE), %                    10.1         13.6         15.3          17.0        16.9    13.1

       School Enrollment (pre-school
                                                  733,811     758,865       772,451      793,806      802,960  807,802
       through secondary)

       Health sector coverage %                      95.2         95.6         97.1          97.2        97.2      na

       Infant Mortality Rate                         14.4         14.1         13.9          13.6        15.0    13.9

       Family allowances beneficiaries            359,281     416,116       370,299      391,424      393,518  503,283


Source: Bank staff calculations based on urban household survey (ECH) data.

The country's human capital was preserved through the crisis, in part thanks to actions supported by the
SSAL II. Budgeted amounts for critical programs in education were maintained or increased, and
institutional reforms in the education administration system were implemented, including the information
systems and internal auditing system supported by the operation. As a result, school enrolment and student
performance were not affected by the crisis and continued at very high levels for primary and secondary
schools.

Health sector outcomes were slightly affected by the crisis, as the improving trends in infant mortality rate
slowed down since 2001 (although, at 14 per thousand, continues to be one of the lowest in the region).
Contributory health coverage was affected during the crisis, but the decline was compensated by an
expansion of coverage by the public sector. As a result, coverage in 2003/2004 was over 97 percent.

Specific social programs were well targeted and effective in helping the most vulnerable segments of the
population (see below). Such achievements are noteworthy in a context where overall social spending in
2002 had fallen with regard to the previous year by 9.1% in real terms.
The satisfactory impact of SSAL II for the most vulnerable sector of the population was evidenced by the
fact that, despite the worsening of the crisis, the impact was mitigated as revealed in education and health
reports. Additionally, during the peak of the crisis, no significant social conflicts, such as education or
health strikes, were registered, and social peace prevailed.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Consolidate and reinforce equity under education programs
This action's output is rated as satisfactory because in 2003-2004 the budget for the key education
programs was protected from adjustments. The Program objectives were achieved and substantially
surpassed. The total amounts assigned to the three critical programs for 2005 was 130 percent over the
SSAL II targets.




                                                       - 9 -

             Table 2. Protected Education programs. Target and actual budgets-2004


                          Program               Target for 2003-       Budget for 2005 (in
                                                  2004 (in US$)               US$)

                   Basic School Supplies            900,000                 2,670,092

                    Bilingual Education             250,000                  343,023

                    Books and Teaching
                          Materials                 300,000                  713,165

                           TOTAL                   1,450,000                3,726,280

 Source: OPP.



Component (II): Improvement of efficiency in the educational sector
This action's output is rated as satisfactory because programs were implemented to modernize the
administration of the education system, such as those involving the strengthening and implementation of
new dossier follow-up systems, the implementation of a human resources data base, and the design of the
Internal Audit Unit, which is now fully operational. These efforts need to be continued and strengthened.
This need has been recognized by the new administration and included in the Social Program Development
Policy Loan, (SPDPL).

Component (III): Improvement of efficiency of public spending in the health sector
This action's output is rated as satisfactory because public hospital budgets achieved higher efficiency,
enabling improved quality of services provided to the poor sector of the population. This increased
efficiency was achieved through the outsourcing of certain services, with the ensuing cost savings, while
services for which outsourcing was not recommended were improved in terms of productivity.

Component (IV): Improvement of efficiency and equity of public hospital expenditure
This action's output is rated as satisfactory because cross-subsidies were reduced and cost recovery was
increased at public hospitals. The ASSE beneficiary database was completed and an Action Plan was
defined for its periodical updating. Additionally, 30% of the hospital budget was allocated according to a
per-capita criterion, achieving a substantial improvement over the older process, when allocation was based
on historical criteria. Billing regulations to recover costs of services provided to private health insurers
beneficiaries were studied and prepared. The status of this system has been revised and included under the
SPDPL as one of its objectives.




                                                      - 10 -

                                Table 3. MSP Expenditures, 1999-2003

                                       (In US$ of December 2003)
                                              1999       2000       2001      2002      2003
     Personnel                                85,192     85,912     81,941    76,985    65,948
     Non-Personnel Recurrent Costs            82,024     85,330     76,206    72,983    71,361
     Total Recurrent Costs                    167,216    171,242 158,147 149,968 137,309
     Investment                               3,482      4,044      4,055     4,870     1,505
     Total Expenditures                       170,698    175,286 162,202 154,838 138,814
     Per Capita Total Expenditures            51.7       52.8       48.5      46.1      41.1
 Source: World Bank Staff calculations based on Pérez, 2004, over MSP data.



Component (V): Improvement of efficiency and sustainability of public expenditures in
high-complexity medical care
This action's output is rated as highly satisfactory because the financial, management and governance
reform implemented in the FNR enabled the balancing of accounts as well as the achievement of a surplus
in 2005. FNR went from a deficit of 16.4 percent of revenues in 2000 to a surplus of 5 percent in 2003,
thanks to a revision of authorization validations procedures and fees, to reduce fraud and abuse.


                           Figure 1. Financial results of FNR, 1981-2003




Source: Ricardo Meerhoff ­ Análisis del Financiamiento y de la equidad del sector salud.
Background paper UY Health ESW, WB, 2004.


The general macroeconomic performance was highly satisfactory, as macro policies implemented during
and after the crisis resulted in a rapid recovery. Uruguay implemented a solid and successful strategy (with
support from the IMF, IADB and the WB) to minimize damage to its economy from the shocks originating




                                                     - 11 -

in Brazil and Argentina. Finally, the cross-conditionality with SAL II was not satisfied, as infrastructure
reforms were delayed (the new government that took office in March 2005 indicated its interest in
advancing with SAL II, and the Bank's team has been working with the Government to develop an action
plan to implement the program).

To conclude, the assessment of the Outputs by conditions is deemed satisfactory. Two of the five
conditions linked to the social sectors, as well as the macroeconomic condition, are rated as highly
satisfactory and the remaining three as satisfactory, while the cross conditionality with SAL II was not met
at the time of the loan cancellation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not appplicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
SSAL II had a substantial institutional development impact in the areas (education and health) involved in
the program. In education, progress with administrative reform and the audit systems in ANEP have paved
the way to efficiency, setting the foundations for significant institutional transformation. In the health
sector, the improvements in FNR administration have been the basis for a small-scale modernization that
represents a significant cultural change in high-complexity treatment. In addition, the development of a
database of ASSE members has been a significant step towards the design of subsequent actions with an
institutional impact.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The results of the December 2003 Referendum and the Constitutional reform prevented advances in SAL
II. Consequently, as the conditions for this program had been incorporated to the SSAL II, tranches II and
III were not disbursed.

The Referendum annulled the Law passed in January of the previous year, which eliminated the monopoly
exercised by the ANCAP in the importation, exports and refining of crude oil, and allowed the strategic
partnership of the ANCAP with an international operator. The Constitutional reform, approved by
referendum, placed the provision of water supply and sanitation services exclusively under State rule,
prohibiting private sector involvement in the delivery of these services, either through the sale of assets,
concessions, partnerships with private companies, cooperatives or permissions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Uruguay's authorities showed a high commitment in the program's implementation. The relationship
between the MEF, OPP, and sector authorities was fluent.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
OPP with the support of the Ministry of Economy and Finances, worked efficiently to implement the
program and no setbacks on the social sector were evidenced during its development.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The SSAL II was approved by the Board of Directors on April 8, 2003. The first tranche of US$



                                                      - 12 -

26,020,000 was released on April 22, 2003 and the two subsequent disbursements of US$ 25,000,000 and
US$ 50,000,000, respectively, never materialized. The SSAL II was cancelled on 4 May 2005.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Program is deemed likely, because several of the most important reforms supported by
the loan implied changes that would be difficult to reverse, given the increased transparency and efficiency
that resulted from them. Administrative reforms at ANEP, allowing for a more transparent human
resources system and the creation of an independent internal auditing unit are major improvements in the
system. In the health sector, the reforms to reduce cross subsidies and improve efficiency have been
implemented continuously for several years.

The new administration (that took office in March 2005) has indicated its support for the reforms
implemented under SSAL II, and its interest in deepening them, both in education and health. The
Government considers the educational policy as the core of social integration. To this end, it will focus on
expanding coverage and efficiency of the education at all levels, with particular attention to pre-school and
secondary levels. In health, one of the main policy proposals of the new administration is to develop a
National Health System that would eliminate current fragmentation and inefficiencies, such as the
cross-subsidies that used to affect the FNR and public hospitals.

Sustainability of the program is also supported by a recent Bank operation. The Social Program
Development Policy Loan (SPDPL) approved by the Board on June 9, 2005, is the first of several
operations that provide support to Uruguay's social sector programs under the new FY05-FY10 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The SPDPL supports past and ongoing structural and administrative reforms
in the education and health sectors, including those originally proposed for the second and third tranches of
SSAL II.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending performance is rated as satisfactory. As noted, loan identification and design was consistent
with the CAS, built directly on previous adjustment operations (SAL and SSAL), and was consistent with
the government's development strategy.

The Bank worked closely with the IMF, the IDB and other donors on the design of the loan. Policy actions
in the social sectors supported by the SSAL II program were well designed, with an expected positive
impact on social outcomes. The focus on policies that would protect basic services in health and education
on the wake of the economic crisis was appropriate, considering the social and economic emergency in the
country at the time.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervisory performance is rated as satisfactory. SSAL II was monitored through three full
supervision missions including both infrastructure and human development specialists in November 2003,



                                                    - 13 -

May 2004 and April 2005, and partial supervision missions carried out periodically by education and
health specialists as by products of their sector specific missions. The partial supervision missions followed
up progress on implementing agreed monitoring indicators and discussed results with OPP and health and
education ministries and staff.

The supervision of this Loan helped ensure continued dialogue with the various authorities of the previous
government, as well as building a bridge to the current administration, which benefited from an efficient
design of the SPDPL and its immediate disbursement.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall assessment of the Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower role in loan preparation was rated as satisfactory. The borrower participated actively in the
preparation and implementation of the SSAL II. This included the preparation of interviews, information,
research, surveys, contacts, meetings and discussions. The borrower acted quickly, establishing the
conditions that made it possible to protect the most vulnerable sections of the population from the effects of
the crisis.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The loan implementation has been ranked satisfactory. Note should be taken of the active involvement of
officials and their commitment to the implementation of the program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
1.       The role of the Implementing Agency was rated as highly satisfactory. The agents participating in
the Program had different interests, and therefore performed different roles. As a result, the OPP
encouraged social ministries to comply with the program, monitoring the work, becoming a very positive
factor for obtaining results. In the health sector, the role performed by the OPP was especially beneficial
because thanks to its actions it was possible to maintain the continuity of the Program, as it could have
failed as a result of the various changes in ministers.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory


8. Lessons Learned

The experience of SSAL II provides important lessons for future operations, as it was a well design
program, with necessary and feasible policy actions, but it had to be cancelled due to implementation
restrictions in other areas, not expected during preparation.

(1) When cross-linking conditionalities between different development policy loans, it is important to
evaluate the financial leveraging impact but also the potential problems that might arise if reforms
move at different speeds. While cross-conditioning may operate as a good incentive to fulfill
commitments, it may also slow down or impede implementation of necessary programs.. The experience
with SAL II and SSAL II shows that in some cases, linking two or more operations that have no substantial
policy connections may have a negative effect on the overall Country support strategy, as the area that is
progressing as expected or even better does not receive the expected support because of delays in other
unrelated policy initiatives.



                                                       - 14 -

(2) Solid prior understanding of the sectors involved in the operation facilitates the preparation and
achievements of the Program. Continuous dialogue with official counterparts and independent analysts
simplified the team's work during preparation, as the main sectors and policies to be supported were clearly
identified The topics and areas chosen for the SSAL II Program played key roles in modifying deep-rooted
problems in those sectors, and in paving the way for structural reforms in the near future: and their intrinsic
value allowed for their implementation even if the financial support from the Bank was blocked.

(3) Close and frequent supervision increases sustainability of programs even in period of crisis or
government changes. Despite the difficult economic and social situation in Uruguay and the frequent
changes in ministers and staff, the proactive supervision and sustained dialogue with MEF and sector
authorities facilitated the support of the program by all counterparts, and its implementation even after the
government change in March 2005, that probably represented the most significant political change under
democracy in Uruguay in the last 150 years. Fluid dialogue with the previous authorities meant that bridges
were built to the current administration, which benefited from a program that had been virtually completed.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Antecedentes
Luego de la crisis de 2002, el gobierno uruguayo de la época solicitó un Préstamo Estructural Especial a
los efectos de mitigar los efectos de la crisis sobre la población. El préstamo fue aprobado en abril de 2003.
Con el cambio de las condiciones económicas y el cambio de gobierno, se optó por la cancelación del
mismo en abril de 2005. El Programa tenía como objetivos el incremento de la eficiencia y equidad en los
sectores de la Salud y la Educación.

Comentarios sobre el proceso de negociación
No obstante el cambio de gobierno no permite profundizar sobre las características de la negociación del
Préstamo en su etapa inicial, es de destacar la flexibilidad, eficiencia y rapidez de los funcionarios del
Banco para encaminar soluciones (incluida la cancelación del Préstamo) ante cambios del entorno y del
gobierno.

Comentarios sobre el diseño
Tal y como lo señala el Banco, existe una razonable relación entre las prioridades y los contenidos de los
componentes y los objetivos del Programa lo que permitió amortiguar los efectos perversos de la crisis en
las áreas de educación y salud con efectividad. No obstante a los efectos de mejorar el seguimiento y
monitoreo de este tipo de Programas hacia el futuro se considera necesario avanzar es sistemas de
indicadores de éxito que reflejen el impacto de las actividades de los componentes y de las
condicionalidades con el cumplimiento de los objetivos.

Se comparte la apreciación del Banco respecto de que las condicionalidades cruzadas con otros Programas
presentan ciertas desventajas que será necesario revisar.

Comentarios sobre la institucionalidad
Se comparte el comentario del Banco respecto al papel principal que tuvo la OPP en el cumplimiento de los
objetivos del Programa a través del seguimiento de las actividades y del control de cumplimiento de las
condicionalidades.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                      - 15 -

There were no-co financiers

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                             - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



     Reform Areas/ Objectives                            Actions taken and status by 2005
Maintain macroeconomic               Macroeconomic stability has been mantained since 2003. GDP grew
performance                          by 2.2%, 12.3% and 6% in 2003-2005. Inflation was almost 20% in
                                     2002 to then decline to 5% in 2005. Fiscal primary surplus is around
                                     3.5% of GDP

Consolidate and reinforce equity     Programs budgets were protected, and overall funds by 2005
within education programs,           were more than twice the 2004 targets, Basic School Supplies
protecting critical programs         budget is US$ 2.7 million (target was US$ 0.9 million), Bilingual
budgets                              education is US$ 343 thousand (target US$ 400 thousand), and
                                     Books and Materials US$713 thousand (target was US$ 800
                                     thousand).
Improve the educational sector       Reforms were implemented and Internal Audit Unit is fully operational.
efficiency, introducing
administrative reforms and auditing
unit in ANEP
Improve the efficiency of public     Ancillary services in public hospitals are contracted out
spending in the health sector
Improve the efficiency and equity of ASSE beneficiaries and RUCAF data base has been completed and
public hospital expenditure,         maintained and public hospitals are using it to identified beneficiaries
eliminating regressive subsidies     and to bill services
Improve the efficiency and           The list of eligible procedures to be financed by FNR was revised;
sustainability of public             charge for services are revised periodically and modified according
expenditures in high complexity      cost, to eliminate unnecessary expenditures. This resulted in a sharp
medical care, eliminating subsidies  improvement of FNR financial status, that went from a deficit of 16% in
of less complex procedures           2000 to a surplus of 7% in 2003




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable

Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable




                                      - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation*
              September -              22     Team Leader (1)
              November 2002                   Institutional Specialists (2)
                                              Sector Leaders (2)
                                              Education Specialists (2)
                                              Health Specialists (2)
                                              Macroeconomic Specialists (2)
                                              Infrastructure Specialists (3)
                                              Public Services Specialists (5)
                                              Consultants (2)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              *                          8    Team Leader (1)
              November 2002 -                 Education Specialists (2)
              April 2003                      Health Specialist (1)
                                              Lawyer (1)
                                              Macroeconomic Specialist (1)
                                              Public Services Specialists (2)




 Supervision
              **
              11/21/2003                 7    Team Leader (2)                      S               S
                                               Macroeconomist (1)
                                              Education Specialists (2)
                                              Health Specialists (2)
              05/13/2004                 4    Task Manager (1)                     S               S
                                              Health Specialist (1)
                                              Education Economist (1)
                                              Education Consultant (1)
              April 2005                 7    Task Manager (1)                     S               S
                                              Education Specialists (2)
                                              Health Specialist (1)
                                              Macroeconomic Specialist (1)
                                              Public Services Specialists (2)


 ICR
              October -                  3     Team Leader (1)
              December 2005                    Economist (1)
                                               Social Sector Specialist (1)

*Include both SSAL II and SAL II.



                                               - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation*                                             *362,936
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                             **85,310
  ICR                                                                      26,524
  Total                                                                    474,770
* Includes both SSAL II and SAL II
** Includes fix costs included in SAL II




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

ANEP (2005) El sistema educativo en cifras. 1995-2005. Montevideo, Uruguay.

ANEP ­ MECAEP (2001) Estudio de la Evaluación del impacto de la Educación Inicial en el Uruguay.
Montevideo, Uruguay

ANEP ­ PISA (2003 ­ 2004) Programa de Evaluación de Aprendizajes, Montevideo, Uruguay.

Banco Central Uruguay (2003-2005) Informe Trimestral Monetario, Montevideo, Uruguay.

Banco Central Uruguay (2002-2005) Informe Trimestral Superintendencia de Intermediación financiera,
Montevideo, Uruguay.

Consejo de Educación Primaria (2001) Estudio de Evaluación de los Programas de Capacitación en
Servicio para maestros y directores de las Escuelas de Tiempo Completo , Montevideo, Uruguay.

Instituto Nacional de Estadistica (2004-2005) Estimaciones de Pobreza por el metodo de ingresos.
Montevideo, Uruguay

Instituto Nacional de Estadistica (2004) Encuesta de Usuarios de Programas de Alimentación y
Comedores Escolares. Montevideo. Uruguay

World Bank (2005) Uruguay: Sources of growth ­ Policies for the development of human capital,
integration, competition and innovation. Report 31737. Washington D.C.

World Bank (2005) Uruguay: Country Assistance Strategy. Report 32289. Washington D.C.

World Bank (2005) Uruguay: Social Program Development Policy Loan Project. Report 32289.
Washington D.C.

World Bank (2003) Poverty Update. Report 23223. Washington. D.C.

World Bank (2004) Consultation with the Civil Society around social programs in adjustment loans.
Newsletter. Report 311120. Washington. D.C.




                                                  - 24 -

- 25 -

