Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7165-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Special Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7165-UR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 2003, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated March 
7, 2003 (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;  
 
(B)   
the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program and the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance 
in an amount equal to one hundred one million twenty thousand Dollars ($101,020,000); 
and  
 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 22, is modified to read: 
“‘Fixed Spread’ means four hundred (400) basis points; provided that, 
upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the unwithdrawn 
principal amount of the Loan, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the 
Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”; 
(c) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(d) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(e) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(f) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(g) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“ASSE” means 
Administración de Servicios de Salud del Estado
,
the 
Borrower’s executing unit within the MSP in charge of health services; 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c) “FNR” 
means 
Fondo Nacional de Recursos
,
a
non-state public entity 
(
persona pública no estatal
)
that provides financial assistance to the Borrower’s 
population for the provision of highly specialized medical procedures, established 
pursuant to Law No. 16.343 of December 24, 1992, or any successor thereto; 
(d) “MSP” 
means 
Ministerio de Salud Pública
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Public Health; 
(e) 
“Second Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Bank sends 
the Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 
2.02 (d) of this Agreement have been met; and 
(f) 
“Third Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Bank sends 
the Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 
2.02 (e) of this Agreement have been met. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred  one 
million twenty thousand Dollars ($101,020,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $100,009,800 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
amount of $26,020,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii), and (iii) above, as 
the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
amount of $51,020,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have 
been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii), and (iii) above, as 
the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
Page  7
-
6
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be c
onsidered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to materially 
reverse any action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of 
the Bank, adversely affect the achievements of the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to materially 
reverse any action listed in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement. 
(d) A
 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date July 14, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
 
Colonia No. 1089 
 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable address:   
Telex: 
 
MINECON 
 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Facsimile:  (598) 2 900-0186 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Carlos Sténeri 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Redwood 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
718                          
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
      728.43 
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1.  
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning April 15, 2006 
 
through October 15, 2007 
25% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
Education Sector 
1. 
For the period from January 1, 2003 to the to the date falling two months prior to 
the Second Tranche Release Date, the Borrower has timely executed its budget at least at 
levels of expenditure  specified in its monthly budget execution schedules and 
satisfactory to the Bank (including without limitation the monthly levels of expenditure 
for 2003 included in the Borrower’s integrated financial information system (
Sistema 
Integrado de Información Financiera –SIIF-)
)
for each of the following programs:  (a)  
basic school supplies and maintenance program; (b)  the bilingual education program; 
and (c) the textbook program for primary schools. 
Health Sector 
2. (a) 
ASSE’s beneficiary database identifies at least 40% of the uninsured 
population of the Borrower; and  
(b) 
the MSP, through ASSE, has completed initial simulations of new budget 
allocation formulas based on the database referred to in (a) above. 
3. 
(a) 
The FNR has been in financial equilibrium (regular revenues, not 
including any amounts attributable to the increase in contribution rates mandated by a 
decree of the Executive, have been equal to or greater than regular expenditures –any 
extraordinary, not operationally-related revenues and expenditures excluded) for the 12 
month period immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, 
)
;
and 
 
(b) 
the FNR has determined unitary costs and utilization rates for medical 
procedures that account for no less than 60% of its expenditures. 
4. 
The Borrower has fulfilled all of the conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to the 
Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement of even date herewith (Loan 7164-UR). 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement 
Education Sector 
1. 
For the period from January 1, 2003 to the date falling two months prior to the 
Third Tranche Release Date, the Borrower has timely executed its budget at least at 
levels of expenditure  specified in its monthly budget execution schedules and 
satisfactory to the Bank (including without limitation the monthly levels of expenditure 
for 2003 included in the Borrower’s integrated financial information system (
Sistema 
Integrado de Información Financiera –SIIF-
)) for each of the following programs:  (a)  
basic school supplies and maintenance program; (b)  the bilingual education program; 
and (c) the textbook program for primary schools. 
2. 
The Borrower has included in its 2004 budget agreed minimum levels of 
expenditures for each of the following programs:  (a)  basic school supplies and 
maintenance program; (b)  the bilingual education program; and (c) the textbook program 
for primary schools. 
Health Sector 
3. 
(a) 
ASSE has completed its beneficiary database; 
 (b) 
at least 30% of ASSE’s 2004 hospital budget is allocated based on per 
capita criteria; and 
 
(c) 
during the quarter immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release 
Date, seven public hospitals of the Borrower have billed at least 20% of in-patients 
(patients who need to stay overnight at the hospitals), provided, however, that bills issued 
to uninsured patients may be for information purposes only. 
4. 
The FNR has been in financial equilibrium (regular revenues, not including any 
amounts attributable to the increase in contribution rates mandated by a decree of the 
Executive, have been equal to or greater than regular expenditures –any extraordinary, 
not operationally-related revenues and expenditures excluded) for the 12 month period 
immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date. 
5. 
(a) 
The menu of eligible procedures to be financed by FNR has been 
redefined to eliminate the procedures that do not involve high costs or are not highly 
complex; and  
Page  17
-
16
-
(b) 
new tariffs have been put into effect for the procedures financed by FNR, 
and utilization rates are being used to control the volume of procedures being financed by 
FNR. 
6. 
The Borrower has fulfilled all of the conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement of even date herewith (Loan 7164-UR). 
 
