                                                                                         38211


                                        URUGUAY
            Public Services and Social Sectors Structural Adjustment Loan
                                  (Loan No. 71640-UR)

  Proposed Amendment to the Loan Agreement Concerning Release of the Second
                    Tranche and Cancellation of the Third Tranche
                                       Project Paper


1.      This document seeks approval by the Executive Directors for a proposed
amendment to the loan agreement for a Public Services and Social Sectors Structural
Adjustment Loan ­ SAL (Loan 71640-UR). The loan, in an amount of US$151,520,000,
was approved on April 8, 2003 at a time when Uruguay was still recovering from a major
economic crisis that was precipitated when neighboring Argentina defaulted on its public
debt in 2002 and devalued its currency. The loan's original objective was to support
public service sector reforms that would foster economic growth, improve
competitiveness of the Uruguayan economy, and enhance efficiency in the provision of
public services. In parallel to the SAL, a Special SAL was also approved in support of
measures that would protect priority social programs at a time of exceptional fiscal
constraints and to enhance the efficiency of those programs through better targeting,
monitoring, and evaluation. The loan agreements for both loans incorporated cross-
linkages so that disbursement of the second and third tranches of either loan was
contingent upon satisfactory progress with the other.

2.      The Uruguayan economy has performed well, as it continued to recover from the
2002 financial crisis and deep economic recession. There has been good progress with
several of the public sector-specific reforms supported by the SAL (as detailed in Part II).
However, in a few critical areas, targeted reforms have been forestalled by external
events beyond the control of the government and by domestic political developments that
have changed the environment for reform. With respect to external events, region-wide
constraints have emerged in the supply of natural gas and electric power such that the
establishment of a regional energy market as envisaged by the SAL is no longer a
practical proposition, at least in the near-term. On the domestic front, there were two
constitutionally sanctioned referenda that changed the public policy framework for public
service reform, namely, a constitutional amendment effectively prohibiting private
participation in water supply and sanitation and the repeal of legislation opening the
market for petroleum products to private enterprise. In the general election of 2005, a
new government coalition was elected to office with a clear mandate to maintain public
sector management of public services and infrastructure, while improving efficiency.

3.      The proposed amendment to the loan agreement allows the loan to be brought to a
prompt closure, taking stock of the substantial progress already made towards the original
loan objectives. Conditions for release of the second tranche would be restructured to
reflect achievements in many of the original second and third tranche conditions. The
third tranche would be cancelled in line with the government's request. The result of the
due diligence on all loan conditions is presented in Part II. Consistent with progress

achieved under the program and the present financial needs of Uruguay, it has been
agreed with the Uruguayan authorities to reduce the second tranche of the SAL from
US$50 million to US$40 million and cancel the remaining balance. This would bring
total disbursements under the loan to US$90 million out of the US$150 million originally
committed.

4.      The proposed amendments to the SAL do not introduce fundamental changes in
the objectives of the program with respect to sound macroeconomic management, the
need for a competitive economy or the need to enhance efficiency in the provision of
public infrastructure and services. The amendments place those objectives within a new
external and domestic environment in which the current government has to address public
services and infrastructure investment requirements, particularly, legislative restrictions
on private sector participation and a strong consensus of public opinion in favor of a
greater role for the public sector. As a consequence, program objectives could take
longer to achieve than was originally envisaged.            A longer time horizon and new
operational modalities may, in turn, increase program risks. The government's proposal
is to manage those risks by shifting the Bank's financial support for the development of
public infrastructure and services from policy-based to investment lending instruments.
This is consistent with the CAS for FY05-10 that was discussed by the Board on June 9,
2005.1

5.      The Uruguay Public Services and Social Sectors Special SAL (Loan No. 71650)
that was approved at the same time as the SAL was brought to closure in May 2005. An
implementation completion report concluded that the achievement of all objectives was
satisfactory. All second and third tranche loan conditions of the Special SAL had been
met, except for the mentioned cross-linkages with the SAL.                   In May 2005, the
government requested that the outstanding tranches be cancelled because it no longer
required financial support on special terms. The Board approved a single tranche DPL
(Loan No. 73020) in June 2005 to continue financing ongoing sector requirements on
regular Bank terms. In view of the early closure of the Special SAL and the cancellation
of the second and third tranches thereof, the cross-conditionality incorporated into the
loan documents of both the SAL and the Special SAL has been effectively superseded.


                                Part I - Country Context

A. Recent Economic Developments

6.      In 2005, the Uruguayan economy performed well, as it continued to recover
from the financial crisis and deep recession of 2002.                External conditions were
generally favorable (high growth in the region and the world, high export prices,
relatively low interest rates, but high and rising oil prices), and macroeconomic
management was prudent. Economic growth was 6.6 percent in 2005, compared to a
projected 6.0 percent, while consumer prices rose by 4.9 percent (January to December),

1Report No. 31804-UY Country Assistance Strategy for the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for the period
FY05-FY10 May 10, 2005.


                                               2

below the BCU inflation target of 5.5-7.5 percent fixed for that year. After reaching
levels close to 20 percent during the crisis, the average unemployment rate continued
declining to 12.2 percent in 2005, while real wages rose by 4.6 percent ­ the largest
increase since 1993. On the fiscal side, revenues increased substantially faster than
expenditures, and the primary surplus for the year was 3.9 percent of GDP, above the
target agreed with the IMF of 3.5 percent of GDP. In the first nine months of 2005, the
exchange rate appreciated by 11.0 percent, but strong intervention by the Central Bank in
the fourth quarter reversed partially this trend. Exports surged to record levels in 2005,
but imports grew even faster. While the external account deteriorated slightly, it remained
balanced.

7.      Economic activity continued to expand in 2006. Preliminary data indicates
that GDP grew by 8.4 percent the first half of the year, compared to the same period
the year before.      The rate of unemployment dropped below 11 percent in July.
Following lower energy prices, the Consumer Price Index dropped by 0.2 percent in
October, resulting in a cumulative increase of 5.9 percent since the beginning of the year.
In the last 12 months since November 2005, the CPI rose by 6.2 percent, compared to the
annual inflation target of 4.5-6.5 percent (extended to March 2008). The peso appreciated
by 1.2 percent since December 2005. Real wages rose by about 2 percent since January,
but they are still about 17 percent below their peak levels prior to the crisis. GDP growth
for 2006 is estimated to reach 6.5 percent.

8.      The country has outperformed the original growth and fiscal targets set out
in the IMF program. On June 8, 2005, a three-year Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) was
approved for US$1.13 billion under the exceptional access procedures (250 percent of
quota). It aimed at supporting the country's economic stabilization through mid-2008.
Prior to the current arrangement, the Fund extended financing in response to the 2002
crisis, augmenting twice its existing program, making it the largest Fund arrangement as
a share of a country's GDP. Total drawings under the two SBAs were equivalent to
about US$3.35 billion. In November 2006, the government announced its intention to
pre-pay the IMF and cancel the SBA upon completion of the combined fifth and sixth
review, which is scheduled to be presented to the IMF's Board of Directors shortly. The
pre-payment of US$1.1 billion was made on November 30, 2006.

        Fiscal policies

9.      In the 12 months through October 2006, the primary surplus reached 3.7
percent of GDP, compared to a target of 3.7 percent of GDP for the year. The overall
deficit was about 0.5 percent of GDP in the same period. The financial performance of
public enterprises weakened substantially, following higher energy prices in the first half
of the year and the impact of a severe drought. However, revenues continued to increase
rapidly, partly as result of economic activity, and partly as result of a major overall of the
tax authority, which is still ongoing.

10.     In October, the lower house of Parliament approved a comprehensive tax
reform. Final approval by the Senate is expected before the end of the year. The



                                              3

reform includes a new income tax, which would replace the current tax on salaries, a
reduction of VAT rates, a reduction in the company tax, unification of social security
contributions among sectors, and the elimination of various exemptions as well as of 15
nuisance taxes. Since numerous regulations would have to be issued and administrative
mechanisms modified, implementation of the new tax system is likely be postponed from
January 1, 2007, as originally planned, to mid-2007.

        Debt Management

11.     Uruguay was very successful in raising capital in international financial
markets and in executing a debt exchange to improve its debt profile. Taking
advantage of favorable conditions in international financial markets, it made several
sovereign bond issues for over US$3 billion in the past 18 months, including one bond
issue in domestic currency which was later expanded. Further, in October 2006, the
Uruguayan authorities exchanged US$1.14 billion in bonds due mostly in 2011 and 2015
for others with maturities in 2022 and 2036 (participation reached, on average, 52 percent
of the total US$2.14 billion).

12.     In addition, in 2006 Uruguay prepaid substantial amounts to multilateral
creditors, including all its outstanding debt with the IMF. First, it repaid US$419
million to the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) of
emergency loans taken during the 2002 crisis. Then, in three payments totaling US$2.6
billion, it cancelled all its outstanding debt with the IMF. Total public debt stands now at
US$12.3 billion. Thanks to economic growth, the stock of public debt is now equivalent
to 64 percent of GDP, down from over 100 percent of GDP right after the crisis. In the
third quarter of 2006, S&P improved its rating of Uruguayan debt from B to B+ with a
stable perspective. In early November, the sovereign country risk premium came down
to about 210 bps.

        The Financial Sector

13.     The banking system has strengthened in the past three years and it is
recovering public confidence. In 2005, total deposits in the banking system grew by
US$550 million to US$8,954 million, and further by 6.6 percent to US$9.54 billion
million in August 2006. The bulk of those deposits are in US dollars, although their
share dropped from 90 to 84 percent, while deposits in domestic currency went up from
10 to 16 percent of the total. That suggests that de-dollarization of the system is
advancing, but there is still a long way to go. Over the past 18 months, there have been
improvements in the BROU, the dominant bank in the sector and the authorities have
started to implement an action plan to continue reform the mortgage bank BHU. Earlier
this year, the IMF and the Bank completed a FSAP, which identified key issues and
challenges in the financial sector, and provides recommendations on ways to address
them. The authorities have taken action to tighten prudential norms, strengthen the
supervisory framework and introduce a deposit insurance scheme. In addition, the Nuevo
Banco Comercial (NBC) was privatized in June 2006.




                                               4

       Balance of Payments

14.    Both exports and imports surged to record levels in 2005, and continued to
grow strongly in 2006. About one half of merchandise exports were agricultural goods,
led by meat products (nearly one quarter of the total). NAFTA replaced the Mercosur as
the main destination of exports. Over 1.9 million tourists visited Uruguay in 2005. Of
imports, nearly 70 percent were intermediate goods, including US$900 million of oil.
These, together with imports of capital goods, which increased by about 50 percent to
US$500 million, are associated with the fast pace of economic activity. Meanwhile,
imports of consumer goods increased by 30 percent to US$700 million, particularly
vehicles and electric appliances. Over 40 percent of imports came from the Mercosur.
Foreign Direct investment more than doubled to US$715 million in 2005, and is
projected to grow by over 60 percent this year.

       Structural Reforms

15.    The new government embarked on an ambitious structural reform agenda
both in terms of coverage and timing. Apart from the tax reform discussed above, the
Internal Revenue Service (DGI) is already implementing major reforms in tax collection
and administration, and a similar plan is being designed for customs. In the financial
sector, the government sent to Parliament a proposal to revise the Central Bank of
Uruguay (CBU) Charter, granting more independence to the Central Bank and
consolidating supervision of banks, insurance, pensions and capital markets into a
stronger and operationally autonomous unit. The new competition and bankruptcy laws
submitted to Parliament are aimed at improving the business environment and attracting
new investment. In addition, the government has adopted performance targets in various
public sector entities to improve the operations of the public sector, and it is working on a
comprehensive reform of public administration, including introducing e-government.

16.    The structural reform program of the administration has been subject to
delay as further time has been required to put together the necessary political and
social consensus for the reforms, in particular the tax reform. The passing of the tax
reform through Parliament has taken longer than expected to develop the necessary
degree of consensus. As a result, the timetable for subsequent items in the government's
structural reform agenda has been adjusted, including the revising of the CBU charter and
pension funds reform. A reform of the Police pension fund has been submitted to
Parliament, and reforms of the Military fund and the banks' pension fund are expected to
be next in line. Further restructuring of the housing bank (BHU) is also pending.

B. Risk Assessment

17.    Economic and financial risks remain, due to the high level of government
debt and guarantees and the still-high dollarization in the economy. Public sector
debt has been reduced from 104 percent of GDP at end-2003 to an estimated 64 percent
of GDP at end-2006. Nevertheless, high public sector debt levels represent a significant
fiscal risk, with the government's servicing ability dependent on continued fiscal



                                              5

discipline, moderate world interest rates, low sovereign risk premiums, sustained
economic growth, and active debt management. Much of the public sector debt is subject
to exchange rate risk, with foreign currency portion public debt estimated at 57.3 percent
of GDP at end-2006. A substantial currency mismatch still remains in the financial
sector, despite some diminishment in underlying vulnerabilities. Dollar deposits still
comprised 84 percent of deposits and dollar credits 71 percent of credit at end-2005.

18.     The Bank's overall assessment is that Uruguay's performance and outlook is
positive, and that the macroeconomic framework is satisfactory. The economy has
performed better than expected in the last two years and is likely to continue in that
course. The government has succeeded in flattening substantially the debt amortization
schedule, lowering the financing requirements of the country in the medium term.
Further, the recent debt issue in domestic currency is another step in the process of
reducing dollarization of the economy.                  Most importantly, the authorities are very
conscious of the importance of fiscal discipline, and are committed to staying the course
and thus providing a proper framework for economic and social development.


          Table 1: Selected Social and Macroeconomic Indicators: 2000-2006
                                                                                           est.
                                                        2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
            GDP Growth %                                 -1.4 -3.4 -11.0   2.2 11.8    6.6  6.5
            CPI Inflation % (eop)                         5.1  3.6 25.6    10.2  7.6   4.9  6.0
            Public Debt to GDP % 1/                      38.5 46.0 95.5 104.5 92.5 69.3 63.6
            Primary balance to GDP %                     -1.5 -1.2   0.0    2.7  3.8   3.9  3.7
            Poverty Incidence %                          17.8 18.8 23.6    30.9 32.1 29.8     ..
            Extreme Poverty Incidence %                   1.5  1.3   1.9    2.8  4.0   3.5    ..
            Unemployment Rate (INE)%                     13.6 15.3 17.0    16.9 13.1 12.2     ..
            Life Expectancy at Birth, years                75   75   75     75   75      ..   ..
            Infant Mortality Rate, per 1,000 live births   14    ..    ..     .. 15      ..   ..
            Gross Enrollment Rates
               3 to 5 years-old                             ..   ..    ..     ..   .. 73.1    ..
               6 to 12 years-old                            ..   ..    ..     ..   .. 98.6    ..
               13 to 17 years-old                           ..   ..    ..     ..   .. 84.8    ..
               18 to 23 years-old                           ..   ..    ..     ..   .. 45.8    ..

            1/ Net of free reserves and monetary policy instruments.

        Source: Ministry of Economy and Finance, Central Bank of Uruguay, INE, IMF and World Bank staff
        estimates.



C. The Social Situation

19.     The Special SAL played an important role in mitigating the social impact of the
economic crisis in Uruguay. It enhanced the equity and efficiency of public expenditures
in health and education by improving management and by giving budgetary protection to
priority programs. Reforms in education and health supported by that Program cushioned
Uruguay's population from the effects of the severe external shock by maintaining ­ and
in part improving ­ public service levels in the aftermath of the economic crisis. For



                                                        6

example, total school enrolment (pre-school through secondary education) continuously
rose from 758,000 in 2000 to 807,000 in 2004. Contributory health coverage declined
during the crisis but the decline was more than compensated by an expansion of coverage
by the public sector. As a result, health coverage after the crisis (2003-2004) was over 97
percent. The infant mortality rate ­ which had increased from 13.9 (2001) to 15.0 per
1,000 live birth (2003) ­ fell back to its pre-crisis level by 2004.

20.     Together with the new administration that took office in March 2005, the Bank
redefined the scope and terms of its support to the social sectors. Under the new CAS,
the government requested a Social Program Development Policy Loan (SPDPL) to reflect
the social reforms and measures that had been undertaken in a comprehensive manner as
well as new actions in the social area to improve quality, efficiency and equity in social
service provision. A number of significant reforms had been introduced by the previous
government in the aftermath of the crisis to improve the coverage, equity and efficiency
of social spending. These included an expansion of the family allowance system to
households whose sole source of income was from informal sector employment, the
protection of budgets for critical educational programs, and efforts to improve efficiency
in the health sector, among others. The new administration has committed to continue
these reforms and expand them to make social programs more efficient, equitable and
sustainable. The SPDPL supported such actions. It was a one-tranche operation and
fully disbursed in July 2005.

21.     In the education sector ­ one of the two areas where the SPDPL recognized the
original policy measures and reforms which had been originally supported by the SSAL ­
budgets for three critical programs (basic school supplies, bilingual education, and books
and teaching materials) were protected since 2003, ensuring availability of resources for
schools during and after the economic crisis. The total amount assigned to the three
critical programs for 2005 was 130 percent over the SSAL targets. These programs were
essential for maintaining a basic level of education quality, especially in schools serving
poor populations.

22.     Four new information management systems at the central level were designed and
implemented. The Central Directive Council (CODICEN)'s file management system and
a resolution filing system were created and implemented. Also, the Secretarías Escolares
for primary schools and Secretarías Liceales for secondary schools were implemented,
which will result in a more efficient management of resources and results monitoring.
Finally, the National Administration of Public Education (ANEP)'s human resource
database was incorporated into the central database of public servants of the Planning and
Budgeting Office. These systems will enable ANEP and CODICEN to track student,
teacher, and school characteristics and performance throughout the education system,
thus fostering improvements in efficiency and quality.

23.     In the health sector ­ the second area where the SPDPL recognized the original
policy measures and reforms originally supported by the SSAL ­ there have been three
important developments: (i) Public spending efficiency improved through the outsourcing
of certain services, with the ensuing cost savings, while the productivity of other services



                                               7

improved. (ii) Efficiency and equity of public hospital expenditure improved through a
reduction of cross-subsidies and an increase in cost recovery at public hospitals. In
particular, the beneficiary database was completed and an action plan was defined for its
periodical updating; 30 percent of the hospital budget was allocated according to a per-
capita criterion; and billing regulations to recover costs of services provided to private
health insurers beneficiaries were studied and prepared. (iii) Efficiency and sustainability
of public expenditures in high-complexity medical care improved through the
implementation of financial, management and governance reform in the Fondo Nacional
de Recursos. These results have been balanced accounts and in 2003 a surplus of 5
percent of revenues was achieved (compared to a deficit of 16.4 percent in 2000).




                                             8

         Part II - Implementation of the Program and Proposed Restructuring

24.      The proposed amendment to the second tranche of the SAL takes account of the
substantial progress made in implementing the Program, as well as the changes in the
domestic and external environments.               The original conditions of the loan, grouped
according to the objective they support and the sector they belong to are shown in the
Revised Policy Matrix (Attachment of Annex 1), together with their current status. The
proposed conditions for the amended second tranche are presented in Box 1 and in the
Policy Matrix. All of the proposed amended second tranche conditions have been met.

              Box 1: Proposed Conditions for the Amended Second Tranche

Regulatory Reform
1.  (a) URSEA has completed the technical work needed for the implementation of regulatory accounting
    in the power sector; (b) URSEC has begun executing the technical work needed for the implementation
    of regulatory accounting in the telecommunications sector; and (c) URSEA has begun: (i) updating the
    technical work needed for implementation of regulatory accounting in the WSS sector; and (ii)
    executing the technical work needed for implementation of regulatory accounting in the natural gas
    sector.
2.  (a) URSEA and URSEC have selected the sets of performance indicators that will be reported to them
    by operators of electricity, potable water and sanitation services (in the case of URSEA) and
    telecommunications services (in the case of URSEC); and (b) Parliament has approved and the
    Executive has promulgated laws authorizing URSEA and URSEC to request information from the
    public and private operators of electricity, natural gas, potable water and sanitation services (in the
    case of URSEA), and telecommunications services (in the case of URSEC).
3.  MIEM has issued a decree establishing the regulatory framework for the commercialization of
    petroleum products.
4.  Parliament has approved and the Executive has promulgated a law that includes: (a) the definition of
    universal postal coverage; and (b) the establishment of a postal services fee and a fund that will
    administer such resources.
Efficiency and Competition
5.  ANCAP has issued a resolution establishing a logistic unit with separate accounts and management
    and with responsibility for the imports, storage, transport and delivery of its petroleum products.
6.  The Borrower has brought to the point of concession the management of the Carrasco International
    Airport, as evidenced by the issuance of invitations to bid for the award of the concession.
7.  The Borrower has closed the gap between the ex-refinery and the estimated import parity prices of
    gasoline, gasoil and fuel oil within a range of plus or minus 25 percent, calculated based on a quarterly
    moving basis.
8.  The Borrower has reduced relative distortions in fuel pricing to the extent necessary to be within a
    range of plus or minus 20 percent of Brazil and Chile.
9.  URSEC has (a) set up an independent telephone numbering management system; (b) adopted a
    customer database administrator; and (c) defined precise rules for signaling (i.e. identifying the origin
    and destination of a telephone call).
10. (a) The Borrower has brought to the point of concession the management of the Montevideo port
    multipurpose terminal ("puerto polivalente"), as evidenced by the issuance of invitations to bid for the
    award of concession; and (b) Parliament has approved and the Executive has promulgated a law
    authorizing the formation of a public limited company jointly owned by AFE and the Borrower's
    National Corporation for Development ("Corporación Nacional para el Desarrollo"), a corporation
    established by the Borrower's Law No. 15785 of December 4, 1985, for the operation of railways in
    Uruguay.
Institutional Development
11. The Borrower, through MIEM, has published guidelines for the definition of a national energy strategy
    to improve energy security in Uruguay at affordable cost.



                                                      9

25.     The government's Revised Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1) dated
November 29, 2006 shows that the proposed amendment remains firmly grounded in the
original objectives of the loan. Specifically, the government has a continuing
commitment to (i) strengthen and consolidate the multisector regulatory agencies, Unidad
Reguladora de los Servicios de Energía y Agua (URSEA) and Unidad Reguladora de
Servicios de Comunicaciones (URSEC); (ii) establish, update and consolidate legal and
regulatory frameworks for public services; (iii) improve accountability by consolidating
and strengthening the public information system of utility performance; (iv) improve
access of private operators to the telecommunications sector and foster competition in the
sector; (v) rationalize the role of the public sector; and (vi) bring coherence to reforms in
the energy sector through the development of a national energy policy.

A. Regulatory Reform

        Cross-sectoral Regulation

26.     Establishing, strengthening and consolidation of multisector regulation. A
condition of third tranche release (Action 1(a) of Schedule 4) was that "Private and
public utilities under URSEA's and URSEC's jurisdiction have implemented regulatory
accounting, as certified by independent auditors". Significant progress has been made
towards this objective. The government has successfully established and consolidated
two multisector regulatory agencies: URSEA for energy and water supply and sanitation,
and URSEC for telecommunications and postal services. It appointed their Directors,
staffed them, defined their operational procedures and began operations. The introduction
of regulatory accounting has, however, progressed at different paces in power, water
supply and sanitation, telecommunications, and natural gas. In the power and water
supply sectors, URSEA has completed the technical work needed for the implementation
of regulatory accounting, and public utilities are preparing to implement it. In the
telecommunication and natural gas sectors, consultant firms are completing the technical
work.

27.     Hence, significant progress has been made towards the establishment,
strengthening and consolidation of multisector regulation. Current expectations are that
the implementation of regulatory accounting will have been completed within 2007.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should
state "(a) URSEA has completed the technical work needed for the implementation of
regulatory accounting in the power sector; (b) URSEC has begun executing the technical
work needed for the implementation of regulatory accounting in the telecommunications
sector; and (c) URSEA has begun: (i) updating the technical work needed for
implementation of regulatory accounting in the WSS sector; and (ii) executing the
technical work needed for implementation of regulatory accounting in the natural gas
sector."

28.     A condition of third tranche release (Action 1(b) of Schedule 4) was that "Private
and public utilities under URSEA's and URSEC's jurisdiction have published
performance indicators for the fourth quarter of 2003". The publication of performance



                                              10

indicators has progressed significantly. In the WSS sector, the water utility regularly
publishes data concerning quality of water, quality of service and complementary
performance indicators both in the national press and on its web-page since February 21,
2003, and URSEA has published water quality indicators in its web-page since May 10,
2005. In the power sector URSEA stipulated in December 24, 2003 which indicators
should be published and the way to publish them. These indicators were collected for the
first time by URSEA and the electric power utility following these procedures for the
period January ­ June 2006. Indicators on commercial quality of service have already
been computed and those on the technical quality of service have been collected and are
being computed. In telecommunications, initial sets of performance indicators for the
industry's fixed and mobile operators have been selected and published regularly in an
aggregated mode in URSEC's web page since October 2006. The intention is, in the
medium term, to publish these indicators operator by operator. In the natural gas sector
URSEA is currently reviewing the indicators included in the concession to decide which
one to formally request. In summary there has been good progress overall.

29.     Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche
release should state "(a) URSEA and URSEC have selected the sets of performance
indicators that will be reported to them by operators of electricity, potable water and
sanitation services (in the case of URSEA) and telecommunications services (in the case
of URSEC); and (b) Parliament has approved and the Executive has promulgated laws
authorizing URSEA and URSEC to request information from the public and private
operators of electricity, natural gas, potable water and sanitation services (in the case of
URSEA), and telecommunications services (in the case of URSEC)."

        Energy

30.     Electricity tariffs. A condition of second tranche release (Action 1 of Schedule
3) was that "MIEM has issued a decree announcing the target tariff for electricity
distribution and establishing a convergence path towards the target tariff (consistent with
URSEA's recommendation and the benchmarking studies carried out by URSEA)". This
objective has not been met at the present juncture. In 2003, URSEA completed a value
added study on power distribution and submitted it with a recommendation to the
government. However, the former administration left the approval of a target tariff for
power distribution to the incoming government. After consulting with URSEA and UTE
and considering the changes that have taken place in the energy market, particularly in
the regional power and natural gas markets, the government decided not to issue the
decree at this stage. MIEM considers that there are other policies that have higher
priority at this moment, particularly the introduction of transmission tolls.       Clearly
defined tolls are a basic tool for raising the interest of private participants in power
generation because they facilitate wholesale transactions. Issuing a decree to define a
target tariff for electricity distribution would be accomplished in the medium-term and
this would enable the government to benefit from a better understanding of the market.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should
not include actions on the target tariff for electricity.




                                               11

31.     Regulatory framework for downstream petroleum products. A condition of
second tranche release (Action 2 of Schedule 3) was that "MIEM has issued a decree
establishing   the    regulatory  framework       for  the  importation,    production    and
commercialization of petroleum products". This objective has been partially met. The
referendum of December 8, 2003 revoked the 2002 law ending ANCAP's monopoly over
the import, export and refining of crude oil as well as the export of petroleum derivatives.
(The risk that this law might be revoked was noted in the Project Document for the SAL.)
Following the referendum, MIEM issued a decree establishing rules for non-
discriminatory access to all stages of the commercialization of combustibles, including
wholesale and retail distribution, as well as transport and distribution services. The
decree introduced limited competition in these areas by removing ANCAP's authority
over new distributors and service stations. Furthermore, in February 2004, URSEA
issued two new regulations on LPG, which have contributed to an increase in the number
of bids (from 2 to 4) from operators interested in the distribution of 13 Kg LPG cylinders.
Notwithstanding the revocation, however, ANCAP no longer has a monopoly on the
domestic distribution and sale of petroleum products. Accordingly it is proposed that the
amended conditions for second tranche release should state "MIEM has issued a decree
establishing the regulatory framework for the commercialization of petroleum products".

32.     Approval of a natural gas law. A condition of second tranche release (Action 5
of Schedule 3) was that "The Borrower has complied with a new natural gas law, which
includes provisions to: (a) eliminate legal ambiguities, including with respect to the
attributions of the public and private sector; (b) established a tariff regime; and (c)
define right of way issues". No natural gas law has been approved at the present time. A
draft law presented to Parliament by the former administration was withdrawn by the
current government which was concerned that the draft law did not address the needs of
the gas sector and did not reflect its sector policy. The government believes that public
and private sector responsibilities, the tariff system and the user rights are already defined
in current sector concession contracts and decrees. Furthermore, the law that created
URSEA established regulatory principles for all services for which URSEA is
accountable, including natural gas.         Today URSEA enforces the application of
concession contracts, including tariff, service quality and security provisions.

33.     Nonetheless, the government wants to improve the legal and regulatory
framework currently in effect for the natural gas sector and MIEM will lead the task.
Options under consideration include the consolidation of all natural gas regulations in a
single text (Texto Ordenado) and the enactment of a law. The objective of the original
loan condition was to create a stable legal and regulatory framework for the sector to
foster the introduction of natural gas in the domestic and industrial market and to take
advantage of the potential regional natural gas market, when it becomes effective.
Issuing the Texto Ordenado would be a significant step towards this objective. The
government is concerned that new legislation might be perceived by private operators as
a change in the rules of the game that may require contracts to be renegotiated. Such a
perception may be negatively received by the market. The government is still debating
the need for a specific sector law.        Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended




                                               12

conditions for second tranche release should not include actions relating to new
legislation with respect to natural gas.

        Postal Services

34.     Postal services legal and regulatory framework. A condition of second tranche
release (Action 3 of Schedule 3) was that "The Executive has issued a decree
establishing the regulatory framework for the Borrower's postal services sub-sector".
Significant progress has been made towards the broader objective of this condition.
Although a decree establishing a regulatory framework for the postal sector has not been
issued, most of the more important issues were incorporated into Articles 77-79 of the
2005-2009 Budget Law. These Articles define universal postal coverage and establish the
postal services fee as well as the fund that will administer the resources. They are a
significant step toward building URSEC's capacity to monitor and regulate the sector.
Moreover, the fact that these matters were made law and not a part of a decree based on
URSEA law, as required by the original condition, underscores the importance attached
to them. The Executive has informed the Bank that the approval of these Articles is the
first step toward a comprehensive regulatory framework for postal services. Meanwhile,
a system for monitoring sector performance including the quality of service, the volume
of mail and the coverage of delivery services has been introduced. Accordingly, it is
proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should state
"Parliament has approved and the Executive has promulgated a law that includes: (a)
the definition of universal postal coverage; and (b) the establishment of a postal services
fee and a fund that will administer such resources."

        Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS)

35.     Establishing a sector regulatory framework for WSS. A condition of second
tranche release (Action 6 of Schedule 3) was that "Parliament has approved and the
Executive has promulgated a law establishing the legal and regulatory framework for the
water supply and sanitation sector, which includes, inter alia, provisions to shift the
authority to carry out feasibility studies and grant concessions from the OSE to the
Executive". The draft law sent to Parliament by the former administration establishing
the regulatory framework was rendered unconstitutional by the October 2004
Constitutional Amendment. As a result of the amendment, article 47, which states that
WSS services will be provided exclusively by state entities, invalidated the overall
concept of the draft law and made irrelevant some of the agreed arrangements ­ for
example, shifting the responsibility for feasibility studies and the granting of concessions
from the utility company to the Executive. The government has begun anew to establish
a legal and regulatory framework for the entire water sector (WSS services and water
resources). The main institutions have now been created, and consultations among them
have begun. Comprehensive legislation to underpin the legal and regulatory framework
for the WSS sector is now a medium-term objective.

36.     Article 327 of the Budget Law 2005-2009 makes the National Directorate of
Water and Sanitation (DINASA), responsible for national policies concerning the



                                            13

provision of WSS services and Water Resources Management. Article 331 of the same
law establishes an Advisory Commission on Water and Sanitation (COASAS) to
incorporate and implement sector policies. The Executive oversees COASAS and on
October 23, 2006 regulated its activities. In January 2006 the Executive appointed a
director for DINASA and placed the entity under the Ministry of Housing, Land
Management and the Environment (MVOTMA). In parallel, a coordinating structure has
been introduced in order to align the new institutional design with the Constitutional
reform. A decree regulating the tasks and composition of COASAS was recently issued
by the Executive as a first step towards opening consultations for the development of the
WSS regulatory framework. In addition, an agreement has been signed between
MVOTMA and the Universidad de la República to assess legal, institutional and
technical alternatives for the development of a WSS regulatory framework. Finally, with
the support from the World Bank financed Public Services Modernization Technical
Assistance Project, work has begun on a proposed bill for the regulation of Article 47 of
the Constitution. Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second
tranche release should not include actions relating to new legislation with respect to water
supply and sanitation.

B. Efficiency and Competition

        Energy

37.     Transparent costs and revenues in the accounting of Administración Nacional
de Combustibles, Alcohol y Portland (ANCAP). A condition of second tranche release
(Action 4 of Schedule 3) was that "The Executive has issued a decree approving two
divisions within ANCAP with separate accounts, management and finances for its
petroleum business and its port and logistics facilities". There has been substantial
progress toward that goal. On February 2005, following the results of the 2003
referendum that revoked the law establishing open access to the oil market, ANCAP
created a logistics unit to make costs and revenues more transparent and to facilitate
collaboration with companies interested in producing refined products. The new logistics
unit is responsible for storage, transport and delivery of ANCAP's petroleum products. It
operates separately from the commercialization unit, and it has a separate management
and accounting system. Hence, there has been significant progress towards fulfilling the
objectives of this condition for tranche release. Accordingly, it is proposed that the
amended conditions for second tranche release should state "ANCAP has issued a
resolution establishing a logistics unit with separate accounts and management and with
responsibility for the imports, storage, transport, and delivery of its petroleum products".

38.     Electric power purchase agreements (PPA). A condition of second tranche
release (Action 7 of Schedule 3) was that "ADME has approved a first set of PPAs and
has requested proposals for three ongoing energy contracts to be replaced by PPAs".
This condition, in conjunction with the Third Tranche condition which related to the spot
market, was to support the effective operation of the competitive Electricity Wholesale
Market (ADME) created by Law 16.832. The 2002 ADME regulation defines the energy
market as consisting of a market for fixed-term contracts and a spot market. This



                                             14

condition aimed at launching the fixed-term contracts market and the condition discussed
in paragraph 42 aimed at the launching a spot market. Compliance with this condition
would require fixed-term contracts to comply with the market's minimum standards, to
be registered with URSEA and to be authorized by ADME.

39.     However, developing a market for new fixed-term contracts with private
generators has not been possible due to the economic crisis which seriously interrupted
the supply of energy from Argentina. There was also a lack of private sector interest in
the development of new electricity generation in the competitive market.                The
dollarization of export contracts and temporary interruption of gas supplies from
Argentina further disrupted earlier agreements between UTE and private agents in
Argentina. There were no offers from private operators in the 2002 public bidding for
developing a 300 MW natural gas combined cycle power plant.

40.     In 2005, measures were taken to broaden energy generation options in Uruguay.
In 2006, UTE signed a power purchase agreement for the installation of 1 MW
aeroderivative gas turbine at the Maldonado Landfill. The government also began to
negotiate the installation of a 10 MW wind power project within the framework of a debt
restructuring agreement with Spain. The government has also issued a decree to facilitate
the contracting by UTE of renewable energy-based generation capacity and UTE has
called for bids for a combination of renewable energy options (wind, biomass, small
hydro) that would generate 60 MW. Near-term government priorities to encourage small
generation projects focus on the security of supply, the design of tolls and access to the
transmission network.

41.     The developments described above have led the government to reconsider the
market structure established in Law 16.832. There is a debate within the public sector as
to whether, given the relatively small size of the domestic market, expectations from a
broader competition framework may be unrealistic. There is also discussion as to whether
the electric power utility should keep a strong vertical structure, in order to compete in a
regional market that is dominated by large companies. It has been suggested that, at least
at this time, the function of economic load dispatching and system operations should not
be transferred to ADME because it may weaken UTE. Nevertheless, the transfer of those
functions to ADME is crucial if new players are to be attracted and if competitiveness in
the power sector is to be enhanced. Hence, the government is carefully analyzing pros
and cons before taking a decision.

42.     In the current situation, it is unlikely that the first fixed-term contracts will be
signed or the first spot transactions will take place any time soon. The government is
considering as a preferred alternative at this stage       to develop and strengthen the
wholesale market through actions including:
    · The definition and effectiveness of transmission charges and the conditions of
        access to the transmission network that will facilitate entry to the market by small
        generators, co-generators and large consumers.
    · The definition and adoption of a complete and well justified transition program
        for the development of the power market. That would include defining the



                                             15

        objectives it aims to reach, the link between the objectives and the model, and the
        time-frame in which they will be executed.
    · The establishment of standards and incentives to foster the efficient development
        of small renewable energy projects.

43.     Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche
release should not include actions relating to electric power purchase agreements.

44.     Establishing a spot market in the power sector. A condition of third tranche
release (Action 4 of Schedule 4) was that "First spot transactions for electricity have
been completed under the framework of the ADME".              There has been no progress
towards that objective. Due to the energy sector difficulties in Argentina and the internal
debate on power market structure (see paragraph 39), the Electric Energy Wholesale
Market Regulation, a necessary requirement to establish the spot market, has not
developed as expected. A prerequisite for the establishment of the spot market, as an
hourly market between the contracted amounts of energy and the energy that is actually
traded in the network, is the establishment of fixed-term contracts. At the present juncture
this will not happen soon. In this context, the government is planning a transition
program to gradually introduce wholesale market regulation and establish standards
necessary to facilitate the development of independent generation projects. Accordingly,
it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should not include
actions relating to the establishment of a spot market for electric power.

45.     Open access to ANCAP port and warehouse facilities. A condition of second
tranche release (Action 8 of Schedule 3) was that "The Executive has approved unit
tariffs and URSEA has approved conditions for open access to ANCAP's port, wholesale
oil import, and storage facilities". As a result of the public referendum that repealed
Law 17.448, the Executive does not have the legal authority to comply with this
condition. ANCAP retains a monopoly position in this sector apart from the
commercialization of petroleum products. Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended
conditions for second tranche release should not include actions relating to open access to
ANCAP facilities.

        Water Supply and Sanitation

46.     Unaccounted-for-Water (UFW) reduction program for Montevideo.                     A
condition of second tranche release (Action 9 of Schedule 3) was that "OSE has offered
to award a performance-based contract to a private operator for the management of the
UFW reduction program in Montevideo, as evidenced by the public offer issued for the
award of the contract". The Constitutional Amendment of 2005 made it unconstitutional
to invite private operators to manage a contract of this type. Consistent with the new
legal order, OSE has announced that its two top priorities are the development and
implementation of new strategies for (i) reducing UFW and increasing water revenues;
and (ii) the company's institutional renewal. The Bank is supporting this endeavor with
an APL. Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche
release should not include actions relating to UFW reduction in Montevideo.



                                              16

47.      Convergence to import parity prices for petroleum derivatives. A condition
of third tranche release (Action 2 of Schedule 4) was that "The Borrower has fully closed
the gap between the ex-refinery and the estimated import parity prices of petroleum
derivatives". Significant progress has been made towards that goal. The gap for the
main derivatives has been reduced during March 2003-July 2006, except for LPG
(supergas) which is used widely by households in Uruguay for heating and cooking. Due
to international price volatility it is very difficult to fully close the price gap for
derivatives and keep it closed. Nevertheless, the gap continued to close even when world
petroleum prices spiked which indicates that higher prices for derivatives, other than
LPG, were fully passed on to the domestic consumer (see Figure 1). Key to this
achievement has been the methodology established by URSEA in August 2004 for
calculating import parity prices for liquid fuels.                                         The import parity prices of fuels
calculated based on this methodology are regularly published in URSEA's web page. For
LPG, in July 2006, the government decreased the consumer price to encourage
substitution away from electricity usage as part of its broader energy policy.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should
state "The Borrower has closed the gap between the ex-refinery and the estimated import
parity prices of gasoline, gasoil and fuel oil within a range of plus or minus 25 percent,
calculated on a quarterly moving basis".


 Figure 1: Ex-refinery and import parity prices for petroleum products in Uruguay


   2.80


   2.60


   2.40

                                   Gasolina premium 95                                       Gasolina regular 87
   2.20

                                   Gasoil                                                    Fuel oil 3%S
   2.00


   1.80


   1.60


   1.40


   1.20


   1.00


   0.80


   0.60

       Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 set-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06


 Source: URSEA.


48.      Eliminate fuel tax distortions. A condition of third tranche release (Action 3 of
Schedule 4) was that "The Borrower has reduced relative price distortions in the
structure of fuel taxation, through the enactment of any necessary amendments to existing


                                                                           17

tax laws, to the extent necessary to reach equilibrium with the major neighboring
countries". Significant progress has been made in that direction.          Relative price
distortions have been reduced through changes in: (i) the way of setting fuel taxes
(making them fixed instead of proportional as before); and (ii) the absolute prices
themselves. In August 2006, for example, tax on a liter of Gasoline Supra 95 (Nafta
Super) was 3.4 times higher than tax on a liter of Diesel (Gas Oil). The difference is
significantly lower than the 5.3 ratio that prevailed in August 2002.        In part as a
consequence of the harmonization of taxes, in August 2006 a liter of Gasoline Supra at
the pump cost 1.5 times more than a liter of Diesel. This gap is 30 percent less than in
August 2002. Consequently, price differentials between Uruguay and neighboring
countries are now smaller (below 20 percent relative to Brazil and Chile). The price
differentials between Uruguay and Argentina are larger due to current Argentine pricing
policies. Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche
release should state "The Borrower has reduced relative distortions in fuel pricing to the
extent necessary to be within a range of plus or minus 20 percent of Brazil and Chile".

        Telecommunications

49.     Improved competition in telecommunications. A condition of third tranche
release (Action 5(a) of Schedule 4) was that "URSEC has: (a) set up an independent
telephone numbering management system".          This condition has been met. Besides
granting additional licenses in both International Long Distance (ILD) and mobile
markets, in 2001 the government issued Decree 442/01 making URSEC responsible for
planning and managing the telephone numbering system and for assigning numbers. In
December 2004, URSEC approved the National Numbering Plan. Accordingly, it is
proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should include this
condition which has been met and which was previously a condition for release of the
third tranche.

50.     A condition for third tranche release (Action 5(b) of Schedule 4) was that
"URSEC has: adopted a customer database administrator". This condition has been
met. Decree 442/01 determined that the customer database administrator would be
URSEC's responsibility and defined the different formats to access ILD providers. A
provisional system of accessing ILD operators was submitted to a process of public
consultation which led to a final system being implemented in September, 2006 through
URSEC's resolution 190/06. The new system is based on dialing and not on pre-
subscribing to the data base of a particular administrator, as was the old system.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should
include this condition which has been met and which was previously a condition for
release of the third tranche.

51.     A condition for third tranche release (Action 5(c) of Schedule 4) was that
"URSEC has defined precise rules for signaling (i.e., identifying the origin and
destination of a telephone call)".     This condition has been met.       Decree 442/01
determined that URSEC is responsible for the signaling plan. The precise rules for
signaling have been laid out in the National Signaling Plan and legally established



                                            18

through Resolution 429/04. Implementation is in progress. Accordingly, it is proposed
that the amended conditions for second tranche release should include this condition
which has been met and which was previously a condition for release of the third tranche.

        Transport

52.     Private operators to manage Montevideo's international airport. A condition
of second tranche release (Action 10 of Schedule 3) was that "The Borrower has brought
to the point of concession the management of the Carrasco International Airport, as
evidenced by the issuance of invitations to bid for the award of the concessions". On
July 8, 2003 a contract for the 20-year concession of the Carrasco International Airport
was signed between the National Ministry of Defense and the public limited company
"Puerta del Sur". The concession covers the administration, operation, maintenance and
management of the airport, including commercial activities such as duty free shops. The
concession payments consist of a "canon" or fixed charge of US$2.5 million (amortized
over the life of the contract) and a fee of US$2.3 per unit of work, which would result in
a total contract price of about US$34 million. This condition has been met.

53.     Private sector participation in the transport sector. A condition for third
tranche release (Action 6(a) of Schedule 4) was that "The Borrower had brought to the
point of concession the management of the Montevideo port multipurpose terminal
(puerto polivalente), as evidenced by the issuance of invitations to bid for the award of
the concession". This condition has been met. In December 2002, Resolution 582/3266
of the National Administration of Ports (ANP) invited bids for the award of the
concession of the multipurpose terminal of the port of Montevideo and set May 9, 2003
as the deadline for submitting and opening bids. This deadline was further reviewed and
updated, to January 30, 2004 when the government approved general specifications to
bid. The bidding process however was halted. As a result, the multipurpose terminal
concession has not been awarded.

54.     The underlying objective of this condition has been met because Uruguay's
economic growth and competitiveness has been boosted by improvements in the ports
sector, including extensive private participation. The private sector now operates a
container terminal in Montevideo and the forest products private logistical terminal of
M'Bopicuá. A deep draft port at La Paloma in Rocha is managed by the Dirección
Nacional de Hidrografía (DNH), and the expansion of the Fray Bentos port is under
execution and expected to be completed early in 2007. As shown in the following table,
investments between 2003 and 2005 amounted to US$48.4 million (24 percent public and
76 percent private), and investments in 2006-2009 are projected to exceed US$500
million (22 percent public and 78 percent private). The construction of the logistics
terminal of M'bopicua attracted US$35 million and the port del Chileno in Punta del Este
is expected to attract US$250 million and will be completed in 2009. As a consequence
the sector has developed substantially. In addition, private initiatives, especially those
linked to the transport of forest related products, have been encouraged and the ports of
Nueva Palmira and M'bopicua are now strong contributors to the export of forest
products.



                                             19

             Table 2: Public and Private Investment in Ports (2003-2009)
         Investment (US$ million)    Public          Private           Total
        Completed                     11.8            36.6              48.4
        Executed                      16.0            20.0              36.0
        Under procurement            101.3            387.0            488.3
        Equipment                      3.0             9.3              12.3
        Total                        132.1            452.9            585.0
       Source: ANP (2006).


55.    Furthermore, a reform initiated in the late 1990's to improve operational
efficiency in the ports has successfully continued during the SAL period. Consequently,
the sector has achieved higher levels of operational efficiency.       Cargo traffic and
productivity has increased. Ship turn-around and docking times have decreased, tariffs
have been reduced, and investment in port infrastructure and service provision has
increased.    Montevideo is again a preferred port of call for mainline services.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second tranche release should
include the condition cited in paragraph 51 above which has been met and which was
previously a condition for release of the third tranche.

56.    Improve railway operations. A condition for third tranche release (Action 6(b)
of Schedule 4) was that "The Borrower has offered to award contracts to private
companies to operate in former AFE rail networks, as evidenced by the public offer
issued for the award of the contracts". This has not been done. Under the previous
government, MTOP open a bidding process to renovate the railways sections between
Montevideo ­ Rivera ­ Sagayo ­ Minas and Toledo ­ Rio Branco but none of the offers
received on March 2004 complied with requested technical and financial specifications
and the bid was cancelled. Subsequently, in January 2006 the current government
reversed the separation of infrastructure management and railways operations and AFE's
resources were reintegrated. Under the new sector policy, a scheme to integrate the
railway transport system with the private sector was launched. Under this scheme,
Parliament authorized the creation of the Corporación Ferroviaria del Uruguay (CFU,
Railway Corporation of Uruguay), as a public limited company, responsible for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of railway infrastructure through contract with AFE. The
CFU is expected to be set up in 2007 and would then call for bids for the rehabilitation of
about 900 km of the rail network with private companies. The bidding is expected to
take place soon after and the rehabilitation in 2007 and 2008. The Comercializadora de
Carga Ferroviaria del Uruguay (CCFU), a parallel mixed (private and public) entity
would then be created and, together with AFE, made responsible for marketing, planning,
coordinating and controlling the rail transportation of freight throughout the country and
the maintenance of rolling-stock. Pre-qualification specifications are under preparation.
The objective is to attract the participation of private companies, which would provide
rolling-stock and railway operational expertise. The private sector is expected to invest
about US$30 million in infrastructure investment and rehabilitation and US$40 million in
capital investment in CCFU. Accordingly, it is proposed that the conditions for second
tranche release should state "Parliament has approved and the Executive has
promulgated a law authorizing the formation of a public limited company jointly owned
by AFE and the Borrower's National Corporation for Development (Corporación


                                             20

Nacional para el Desarrollo), a corporation established by the Borrower's Law No.
15785 of December 4, 1985, for the operation of the railways in Uruguay".

C. Institutional Development

57.     National Energy Policy. A condition for second tranche release (Action 11 of
Schedule 3) was that "The Borrower, through MIEM, has published and complied with a
national energy policy which addresses issues relating to: (a) the relative price of fuels;
(b) the economics of gas and electricity importation from Argentina and Brazil; (c) the
economics and politics of a strategic national reserve of generating capacity; (d) the
environmental impact of changes in the country's energy portfolio; (e) the consistency of
the new electricity, gas and petroleum regulations with the national energy policy; and
(f) the institutional capacity required to implement and monitor a national energy
policy". A number of important steps have been taken towards that objective. On
August 18, 2006 the MIEM issued and published in its web-page the government's
"Guidelines for an Energy Strategy ­ Uruguay 2006", which provides the basic building
blocks of a policy. The guidelines address issues relating to (a) creating a robust and cost
effective electrical energy supply system; (b) improving the supply and access to fossil
fuel resources; (c) defining participation of the natural gas sector in the energy matrix; (d)
incorporating alternative energy sources such as bio-combustion and wind power; (e)
consolidating energy efficiencies policies; (f) updating and improving the regulatory
frameworks; (g) increasing access of the energy sectors for the poor; and (h) supporting
the coordination of energy institutions and actors, including the formulation of policies
and plans and the building of capacity within MIEM, particularly the National
Directorate of Energy and Technology (Dirección Nacional de Energía y Tecnología
Nuclear, DNETN).

58.     The publication of guidelines for an energy strategy is an important step forward,
although it falls short of the original objective which was to introduce a full national
energy policy. There are at least three explanations for this outcome. First, external
developments in the regional energy market necessitated a reassessment of national
energy policies. Second, there was a change of government that brought new ideas to
bear on national energy strategies and third, there was a need for additional time to build
a new national consensus on how the country should adapt to the changing regional
environment. Accordingly, it is proposed that the new conditions for second tranche
release should include: "The Borrower, through MIEM, has published the guidelines for
the definition of a national energy strategy to improve energy security in Uruguay at
affordable cost."




                                              21

D. Cross-Linkage of Tranche Release Conditionality

59.     Apart from the restructuring described above, this Memo proposes to remove the
link originally established between the SAL and the Special SAL. Since the second and
third tranches of the Special SAL were cancelled at the request of the government, the
link is redundant. Accordingly, it is proposed that the amended conditions for second
tranche release should not include any provision for cross-linkage with the Special SAL
which is now closed.




                                           22

                                   Part III - Benefits and Risks

A. Benefits

60.     In broad terms, the amendment will allow the government to continue promoting
economic growth, improving Uruguay's competitiveness and promoting poverty
reduction through further increases in the efficiency of public services and infrastructure
and reductions in their price. Current expectations are that the significant economic and
fiscal benefits obtained in 2002-2005 will be exceeded.              During those years about
US$101.1 million were obtained from private operators that received concessions in
telecommunications (US$54.1 million from cellular bands and about US$2.9 million
from radio links), in the Montevideo airport (US$7.5 million), and in ports (US$36.6
million from the logistical terminal of M'Bopicuá and other minor investments). This
total amount is almost identical to the projected total for 2002-2005 at the time of
preparing the Program (US$105.8 million). Besides these funds obtained from private
operators, total benefits include a reduction of about US$40.7 million in operational
subsidies to AFE and DNV in those years vis-à-vis 2001. Other benefits include transfers
made by ANCAP, ANTEL and UTE to the Treasury, taxes paid by the utilities and
ANCAP in 2002-2005, and the benefits resulting from greater and better access to public
services and infrastructure.

61.     A partial explanation of these impressive results lies in Uruguay's careful
management of policies for fuel prices and for public services tariffs, which allow
periodic increases in order for the tariffs to recover their pre-crisis levels. As shown in
Figures 2 and 3, both average power and water tariffs recovered quickly from the 2002
economic crisis. This is quite impressive considering that there was no social conflict or
protest associated with this development. The crisis had only a temporary impact on the
revenue collection indices of the utilities as illustrated in Figure 4 for the water company,
and did not diminish the high regard that Uruguayans have for their utilities, as illustrated
in surveys about public satisfaction2.          Relative to other Latin American countries,
however, Uruguay's tariffs are high, indicating room for possible further efficiency gains
in the future.




2In 2006, the Regional Electrical Integration Commission (CIER) awarded UTE its 2006 Quality Prize ­
Customer Satisfaction in the bronze category.


                                                 23

                                     Figure 2: Electricity Price (US$/MWh)




200
                                                                                                                                   Brazil -Ceming

180


160


140                                                                                                                                  Peru -Luz del Sur



120                                                                                                                                      Uruguay- UTE



100
                                                                                                                                 Colombia - Codensa


 80

                                                                                                                                    Paraguay - ANDE
 60


 40                                                                                                                               Argentina - Edesur



 20
                                                                                                                                  Venezuela - Cadafe

  0
                  2000                        2001                         2002                          2003                       2004

   Argentina - Edesur      Brazil -Ceming      Colombia - Codensa       Paraguay - ANDE      Peru -Luz del Sur   Uruguay- UTE       Venezuela - Cadafe

Source: UTE.




               Figure 3: Average Revenue - Water only (US$/m3 water sold)




1.20                                                                                                                          1.10
                                                                                                                                   URY: OSE

1.00                 1.05                                                                            1.06                      1.06  BRA: CORSAN

                                                                          0.99
                     0.95                      0.96

0.80                                                                                                 0.88

                                                                          0.78
                                                                                                                                   COL: Average
0.60                                                                                                                           0.64
                                                                                                     0.57

0.40                                           0.49
                                                                                                                                    CHL: Aguas
                                                                          0.41                       0.42
                                                                                                                                    Andinas S.A.
                                                                                                                               0.34
0.20                 0.28                      0.30


                                                                                                                                   ARG: Average
                                                                                                                               0.08
0.00                                                                      0.10                       0.07

                    2000                      2001                       2002                       2003                     2004

                     URY: OSE           BRA: CORSAN           COL: Band Average        CHL: Aguas andinas SA        ARG: National average

Source: OSE.




                                                                        24

                   Figure 4: OSE: Collection Index 2000 ­ 2006 (%)




     93%
     92%
     91%                92%                                               92%
     90%       91%                                              91%
     89%                                               90%
     88%
     87%                          88%
     86%                                     87%
     85%
     84%
               2000     2001      2002      2003      2004      2005     2006 (*)

   Source: OSE.



62.    With respect to rail and road transport there have been additional benefits that
merit attention as indicated in the paragraphs below. AFE improved its efficiency
between 2000 and 2005, and operating subsidies have significantly decreased. As shown
in Figure 5, operating subsidies to AFE (and DNV) decreased by 66 percent from
US$19.6 million in 2000 to US$6.6 million in 2005. During the same period, the number
of employees decreased from 1,677 to 1,128 through a voluntary retirement scheme.
This allowed AFE to improve its operating performance and play a bigger role in 2005
than it did in 2002, when the labor reform took place and railways operation was
separated from infrastructure. Between 2002 and 2005, operating expenses as a ratio of
operating revenues decreased from 4.2 to 2.0. At the same time, freight transportation
increased by 60 percent from 822,700 tons to 1,318,000.




                                          25

                                     Figure 5: Operating Subsidies to AFE

                                             Operating Subsidies to AFE


                        25,000                                                                   14.0


                                19,654                                                           12.0
                        20,000             18,492
                                                                                                 10.0
           )latot(      15,000                                                                   8.0  )eeyolp
                                                        11,546                                               em
                  000                                                                            6.0
                     $SU10,000                                   8,453                                         erp(
                                                                             6,678                                 0
                                                                                        6,637
                                                                                                 4.0                00
                                                                                                                      $
                         5,000                                                                                         US
                                                                                                 2.0

                           -                                                                     -
                                2000        2001         2002    2003        2004       2005


                                Operating Subsidies (000 $US)   Subsidies per employee (US$ 000)

        Source: AFE, World Bank staff calculation.



63.     Although the roads sector was not explicitly included as part of loan conditionality, it
is also worth mentioning that MTOP has fully complied with the Roads maintenance and
rehabilitation plan and the sector allocation budget from 2002 to 2005. The underlying
institutional theme of the reform gradually shifted the focus of government policy away from
the direct administration of the road maintenance agency to private sector maintenance
contracts, micro-enterprises and the decentralization of road asset management. These
reforms had been sustained during the Program period. The number of DNV employees was
reduced from 3,700 in 1995 to 1,800 in 2004, which is an illustration of the shift in
responsibilities of DNV, from carrying out 100 percent of road maintenance to one that
formulates policy and regulates and controls the private and public sector enterprises that
provide the services today. Currently, 42 percent of the road network managed by the DNV
is maintained through contracts with the private sector under different modalities:
performance-based contracts, micro enterprises, Contracts for Rehabilitation and
Maintenance (CREMA); and road concessions. The concession of 1,200 km of the national
roads to a special purpose institution (Corporación Vial del Uruguay) has stood for 25 years
and still continues, allowing private sector financing to be raised for 1,200 km road network.

B. Risks

64.     For the first time in the last seventy years, the elections of 2005 brought to power a
political force other than the two traditional parties. The Frente Amplio has placed renewed
emphasis on the public sector as a leading force in the development process and on
improving the efficiency of state-owned public service providers, while maintaining the
objective of private sector participation in the majority of sectors. This new approach is still
in its early stages. The public sector-oriented approach to the provision of infrastructure and
public services may lead to a more gradual and more limited improvement in efficiency than


                                                             26

the approach that had been envisaged originally under the Program. Although public utilities
in Uruguay are not loss-making, the longer-term financing requirements of the public
investment program under the new approach could also impose an added fiscal burden.

65.     The gradualist, consensus approach that has traditionally characterized the Uruguayan
model poses a risk that the government's program may lose momentum. Maintaining the
pace of the reform process will be challenging given the need for social consensus, including
among unions and the business community, to carry out wide-ranging reforms aimed at
improving the investment climate. Delays in the passage of the tax reform illustrate the
challenge of developing the required consensus. On the other hand, the search for consensus
that characterizes Uruguay has historically helped served to ensure that reforms, once
implemented, are generally sustained.

66.     The domestic risks noted above are mitigated to a certain extent by the clear mandate
the current administration has received from the Uruguayan electorate and the alignment of
the overall objectives of the SAL Program with the government's program. A continued
focus on enhancing social protection will mitigate the risks arising from social exclusion.

67.     A source of external vulnerability to the program arises from possible restrictions in
electric power and natural gas supply that could beset the region. The government is actively
exploring improved electricity interconnection with Brazil to complement an existing one
with Argentina. Regional energy supply constraints could imply that international
cooperative agreements entered into before the crisis will require modification or adaptation.
Those same problems may also be a deterrent to private sector participation. On the other
hand, the perspective of unmet energy demand in the future strengthens incentives for
investment.




                                            27


              Annex 1
Revised Letter of Development Policy




                 28

29

30

31

32

33

34


                            Revised Letter of Development Policy
                                       (English translation)

Mr. Paul Wolfowitz
President
The World Bank Group
Washington, D.C.



Dear Mr. Wolfowitz:

         As you are aware, the World Bank and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay signed a loan
agreement contract for the Structural Adjustment Loan (UR-71640) ­ SAL II ­ on April 22,
2003,with the objective of supporting a series of reforms aimed at promoting economic growth,
increasing economic competitiveness, and improving the population's social welfare. This loan
was negotiated and approved as part of a larger assistance package from international financial
institutions to our country, in response to the severe financial crisis in 2002. It was signed jointly
with the Special Structural Adjustment Loan (UR-71650) ­ SSAL II.

         The SSAL II was signed with the objective of improving the efficiency of public
expenditures in the education and health sectors, while maintaining and improving services in
both sectors. This objective and all of the conditions agreed with the Bank were fully met and in
many cases outcomes exceeded what was required. The SSAL II was canceled on May 4, 2005
when, based on the substantial improvement in the economic and financial environment, we
concluded that the country no longer required this exceptional financing and requested the
cancellation of the total undisbursed amount of the SSAL II loan.

         Support of the objectives of the SAL II was based on the following main themes:

      · Regulatory reform of public sector services through the approval, updating and
          establishment of legal frameworks and of suitable regulations for each of the sectors, the
          consolidation, establishment and strengthening of the regulatory agencies URSEA and
          URSEC; the approval and introduction of regulatory accounting, and the establishment
          of a public information system regarding the performance of the operators.
      · Improve efficiency and enhance competition of each of the public sector services in
          order to facilitate private sector access to the various markets; establish a wholesale
          market in the electricity sector; convergence of domestic fuel prices with import parity
          prices; reduce tax distortions, and promote institutional reforms for the public operators
          most likely to improve their operational, financial and social performance.
      · Support the institutional development of each of the sectors by separating the policy
          definition, regulation and operational functions, and in the case of the energy sector, the
          definition of a national policy that can rationally organize public sector interventions
          and provide greater coherence to the reforms and programs to be undertaken by each of
          the sectors.

         There has been progress in meeting the general objectives of the project and in
implementing the agreed reforms in each of the sectors. However, in the energy and potable
water and sanitation sectors, it has not been possible to implement some of the proposed reforms.
In the case of the energy sector, we informed your predecessor of the situation in our letter of



                                                 35

May 4, 2005, on the occasion of the presentation of Uruguay's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for 2005-2010 to the Bank's Board of Directors. In a December 2003 referendum, 62
percent of the citizenry voted in favor of repealing a January 2002 law, which eliminated the
ANCAP monopoly in petroleum imports, exports and refining, and allowed the strategic
association of ANCAP with an international operator. Furthermore, the crisis in the regional
electricity and natural gas market in recent years and the associated risk to energy supply has
made regional energy integration a medium-term objective.

         In October 2004, a referendum was carried out, in which two-thirds of citizens approved
the amendment of the Constitution to require the provision of potable water and sewerage
services to be carried out solely by the public sector. This constitutional amendment banned not
only private sector participation in the sale of assets and concessions, but also the association of
state companies with private firms for the provision of these services. As in the energy sector, the
Government finds itself obliged to comply with the objectives of its program through measures
that are compatible with the popular will.

         The difficulties in the regional electricity and natural gas market, the new judicial
framework responding to the citizenry's declarations, and the modification of policies and
strategies that resulted in the administration's new political party leadership in 2005, do not
signify that the Government will not continue meeting the objectives of the SAL II that are
compatible with its program. The modernization of the public service and infrastructure sectors,
the improvement in the quality and coverage of each of these, the increased efficiency in the
production, transportation and distribution of said services, and the reduction of prices are
objectives with which our administration agrees. We therefore reiterate the commitment of the
Oriental Republic of Uruguay with regard to these objectives and assure you that we will
continue moving forward with these goals in a manner that is compatible with the other aims of
the Government program through the participation of society and the diligent and enthusiastic
support of all of the country's friends, including the international financial institutions.

         As a result of the above mentioned changes, the Matrix of Conditionality has been
revised and the final text agreed to between the Government and World Bank staff is included as
an Annex to this letter.

         Below we present the general guidelines of economic policy, those elements that cover
strategies in the area of public services and infrastructure, and the specific objectives of the
sectoral policies related to energy, transport, telecommunications, and postal services.

General guidelines of the Development Policy

         A successful economic development strategy requires the articulation of the policy
options that adequately combine economic growth and social inclusion, eliminating the false
opposition between these two principles.           In this sense, the Government has defined a
development strategy based on the following concepts:

    · Investment promotion;
    · Macroeconomic, monetary and exchange stability;
    · International participation in regional, bilateral, and multilateral markets;
    · The deepening of relations with MERCOSUR;
    · Financing new investments through reforms within the financial system;
    · Reducing the public debt to GDP ratio;



                                                   36

    · Tax reform aimed at expanding the collection base and reducing high levels of evasion;
    · Compatibility between the public sector salary policy and expenditure priorities, with
         special attention to those sectors that have been passed over, and the resources available;
    · Reform of the social protection system to contain the deficit with the aim of assuring the
         sustainability of public finances;
    · Reform of the State to increase the performance of fiscal resources available for meeting
         social needs and covering infrastructure deficiencies;
    · Sustainable increase in the level of employment and a progressive improvement of the
         quality of employment;
    · Promotion of micro-enterprises; and
    · Reform and modernization of public sector companies to reduce their operating costs and
         result in greater efficiency as well as in quality improvements of those services they
         provide.

    Strategy within the Public Services and Infrastructure Sector

         The strategy adopted by this Government for the development of the public service and
infrastructure sector continues to be aimed toward improvements in competitiveness, regulation,
cooperative government, social policies and the efficiency of operators. These are the objectives
that the Government feels are key to its effort to permanently improve the country's
competitiveness, guarantee economic growth and improve the well-being of our population. The
reforms through which these objectives are sought are as follows:

    · Promote competition in markets, strengthen and consolidate the regulatory entities and
         the legal regulatory frameworks of the public service and infrastructure sectors, and
         strengthen the Ministries responsible for defining the policies and planning the
         development of the sectors, as well as make clear the different responsibilities of the
         entities in charge of these functions.
    · Improve the efficiency of public expenditure through improved corporate governance,
         greater transparency in the administration of the public operators, greater clarity and
         definition of its obligations and responsibilities, and the reduction of tax distortions.
    · Modernize the public sector operators through the strengthening and optimization of their
         investment, operation and maintenance programs.
    · Revise the tariff structure and the subsidy policies that apply to the provision of public
         services to better compliment the Government's social policy in favor of the low-income
         population, aiming for consistency between the tariff policies and subsidies of the
         different sectors, and with a focus on benefiting the poor.

Specific Objectives of the Sectoral Policy

         The objectives, strategies, and activities for the short and medium-term defined by the
ministries responsible for sectoral policies are as follows:

Energy

         In the energy sector the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining (MIEM) aims to
finalize its vision ­ in a manner that is explicitly and widely participatory ­ for the strengthening,
consolidation and implementation of the legal and regulatory frameworks in the different energy
sectors and of its regulating entity, with the aim of rationalizing tariffs and prices.




                                                   37

        The vision defined for the sector implies that the energy system should aim to assure,
under the direction of the State and with the participation of public and private stakeholders, the
internal supply at the lowest possible cost, with adequate quality and through the best use of
locally, regionally, and internationally available resources.       The MIEM will focus special
attention on energy efficiency and the search for greater diversification of the energy matrix,
incorporating domestic resources, particularly of a renewable nature, with greater labor usage and
impact on production, while paying attention to the preservation of the environment and
energizing regional integration. At the same time, the MIEM will aim to adapt legal instruments
for the development of the energy system, focusing on the specific national characteristics.

        In the framework of this vision, the MIEM has defined the following objectives:

    · Develop a robust electric energy supply system that will seek provision at the lowest
        possible cost;
    · Improve methods of access to and supply of fossil fuel resources, decreasing the impact
        of fuel imports on the national economy;
    · Define the participation of natural gas within the energy matrix;
    · Significantly advance with regards to the incorporation of alternative energy sources
        (specifically bio-fuels, bio-mass and wind-power generation);
    · Consolidate the Energy Efficiency Policy;
    · Adapt the regulatory frameworks of the different sub-sectors;
    · Increase the access of households in extreme poverty to the provision of diverse energy
        services; and
    · Articulate and coordinate the energy stakeholders and institutions around a global vision
        that supports the development of policies and plans.

        In order to meet these objectives, the MIEM has identified the following actions:

    · Establish local support that accepts the use of diverse energy technologies and sources;
    · Find new modalities for international exchange and intensify the interconnection with
        Brazil;
    · Establish the transmission tolls that allow for contracts between authorized power market
        agents;
    · Promote hydrocarbon prospecting within national territory, assess potential local
        reservoirs of natural gas and develop the participation in the production of hydrocarbons
        beyond domestic borders;
    · Establish specific lines of work on the consumption matrix of petroleum products (e.g.
        act upon the asymmetry between the consumption of fuel and diesel);
    · Negotiate and make effective the existing contract with Argentina for the provision of gas
        for electricity generation, with the possibility of introducing new usage alternatives;
    · Assume an active role in the study and negotiation of possible multilateral gas pipelines;
    · Formulate specific regulatory standards that promote new and renewable sources within
        the energy system;
    · Invigorate the actions in the electricity sector that form part of the Energy Efficiency
        Project currently underway, while expanding actions in the hydrocarbon sector;
    · Propose and support efficiency programs in sectors such as transportation and housing,
        and in support of the reduction of losses in the electricity distribution systems;
    · Develop an Energy Efficiency Law that will serve as a general framework for long-term
        actions;



                                                 38

    · Adapt the regulatory framework to the natural gas sector;
    · Establish quality regulation for hydrocarbons and bio-combustibles;
    · Adapt the regulatory framework in the electricity sector, consolidating the roles of
       URSEA and ADME, developing the potential and efficiency of public companies and
       financing the mechanisms for the development of private participation in electricity
       generation, with a strong emphasis on distributed generation, renewables and support;
    · Increase the access of households in extreme poverty to the provision of diverse energy
       services , creating a basic energy basket, in coordination with the rest of the policies; and
    · Develop actions toward the elaboration of a National Energy Plan.

Transport

       In the transport sector, the principal objective of the Ministry of Transport and Public
Works (MTOP) is the generation of a multimodal efficient transport system that will contribute to
the development of the country through the provision of intrinsic services to the sector and
through the execution of infrastructure works. At the same time, the immediate challenge is
consolidating the reforms and the successful advances recently achieved in the different
subsectors:

       The agenda identified by the MTOP includes internal actions such as a strong push
toward regional integration and includes the following actions:

    · Optimize the regulation of road transport;
    · Strengthen the Road Corporation of Uruguay in order to channel public resources and
       private savings by the issuance of negotiable bonds;
    · Regain 1998 public investment levels in highways and roads (the year with the highest
       investment level to date) by 2007;
    · Complete the restructuring of the railway subsector and recover this form of transport
       through the strengthening of the AFE, the creation of the Uruguay Railway Corporation
       and the creation of a new company, which based on private ownership, will be
       responsible for the administration and management of the country's railway system;
    · Develop waterway and maritime transport through the definition of a sectoral
       development policy based on regional cooperation and complementarity with the
       utilization of regional ports;
    · Develop waterway transport on the coast and shipping in the country's rivers;
    · Develop port infrastructure and improved integration and cooperation between the public
       and private port administrations;
    · Study the evolution of heavy freight traffic, paying special attention to the significance it
       will have, particularly that derived from the forestry sector;
    · Prioritize the development of multimodal transport, adapting it to the needs of "door-to-
       door" transport;
    · Increase transport infrastructure investment, incorporating financing mechanisms that
       complement the availability of budgetary funds;
    · Support private participation in infrastructure investment, as well as in the operation and
       participation of the different transport modes; and
    · Support the initiatives and programs driven by multilateral institutions and those
       programs that promote cooperation among countries.




                                                39

Water and Sanitation

       In the potable water and sanitation sector, the prioritized objectives of the Ministry of
Housing, Regional Planning and Environment (MVOTMA) are the preparation of a bill that
defines the legal and regulatory framework of this sector, in conjunction to that of water
resources, and the strengthening of the Ministry's institutional capacity.

       In order to obtain these objectives, the MVOTMA has identified the following actions:

    · Consolidate and strengthen the recently created National Directive on Water and
       Sanitation (DINASA) and Advisory Commission on Water and Sanitation (COASAS), as
       guiding entities in the potable water, water resources and sanitation sectors;
    · With the support of the COASAS, begin an extensive public consultation process that
       supports the DINASA with the preparation of a legal and regulatory framework;
    · With the support of the University of the Republic, evaluate the currently existing legal,
       institutional and technical alternatives for the development of a new water resources
       regulatory framework;
    · Prepare in a participatory manner, a National Plan for Potable Water and Sanitation
       (PNAPS), in which the investment plans of the diverse stakeholders shall be included in a
       coordinated manner, to find methods to meet the country's diverse needs;
    · Define a new strategy for the provision of sanitation services that confers with the
       investment needs of the sector, the degree of efficiency, suitability with the surroundings,
       and satisfaction of the population with the individual and collective small-scale systems
       currently in place in the country;
    · As part of the PNAPS, revise the quality standards, client rights, the management of
       information, the policies regarding personnel capacity building, and the sectoral
       innovation and research;
    · Revise the tariff and subsidy policies taking into consideration needs, demand,
       seasonality, investment and operational costs, financial options, willingness to pay, and
       pay options for the impoverished population; and
    · Collaborate with URSEA in the institutional consolidation and strengthening and with the
       OSE in its operational modernization and optimization.

Telecommunications

       In the telecommunications sector the priority objective of the MIEM is to continue
improving the competitiveness of the sector through increased competition in the cellular
telephone and international long distance markets, optimization of the operation of the landline
market, and institutional capacity improvements of the Ministry.

       In order to obtain these objectives, the MIEM has identified the following actions:

    · Consolidate the legal and regulatory framework of the sector;
    · Strengthen competition within the market and through the market;
    · Complete the implementation of interconnection standards, consolidate the system for
       access to international long distance operators, and complete the implementation of the
       national signaling plan;
    · Improve the transfer system and coordination with the National Administration of
       Telecommunications (ANTEL); and
    · Collaborate with URSEC in its consolidation and institutional strengthening.



                                                40

Postal Services

        In the postal services sector the priority objective for the Government is the preparation
of a bill that defines the legal and regulatory framework of the sector, complementing the work
undertaken at the beginning of this year with the approval of the definition of universal postal
coverage, the establishment of a postal services fee, and the creation of the fund that will
administer these resources.

        In order to obtain these objectives, the Government has identified the following actions:

    · Contribute to the institutional capacity strengthening of URSEC in this sector; and
    · Support URSEC with its task of monitoring and regulating the sector, consolidating the
        periodic publication of information regarding the quality of service, postal delivery
        volumes, delivery coverage and additional performance indicators.

                                          Sincere regards,



                                           Danilo Astori
                                 Ministry of Economy and Finance




                                                 41


                                                                     Attachment to Annex 1
                                                                                 SAL
                                                                     Revised Policy Matrix
                                                              Original and Proposed Conditions

 Objective
 & Sector          Original Condition                               Status of Condition                                   Proposed Second Tranche Condition

                                                                           Regulatory Reform
Across Sectors Condition 1(a) of Schedule 4    Met as amended. The GoU successfully established and                Revised. (a) URSEA has completed the technical work
               (Third Tranche). Private and    consolidated two multisector regulatory agencies: URSEA for         needed for the implementation of regulatory accounting
               public      utilities    under  energy & WSS, and URSEC for telecommunications & postal             in the power sector; (b) URSEC has begun executing the
               URSEA's       and     URSEC's   services. Formulation and implementation of regulatory              technical work needed for the implementation of
               jurisdiction have implemented   accounting have however have progressed differently in power,       regulatory accounting in the telecommunications sector;
               regulatory    accounting,    as WSS, telecom, and natural gas. In the power sector, URSEA has       and (c) URSEA has begun: (i) updating the technical
               certified    by     independent completed the technical work needed for the implementation of       work needed for implementation of regulatory accounting
               auditor.                        regulatory accounting and UTE is preparing to implement it. In      in the WSS sector; and (ii) executing the technical work
                                               the WSS sector a consultant firm is updating the technical work,    needed for implementation of regulatory accounting in
                                               and in the telecommunications and natural gas sectors,              the natural gas sector.
                                               consultant firms are completing the technical work.

Across Sectors Condition 1(b) of Schedule 4    Met as amended. In the WSS sector OSE regularly publishes           Revised. (a) URSEA and URSEC have selected the set of
               (Third tranche). Private and    quality of service and performance indicators in its webpage        performance indicators that will be reported to them by
               public      utilities    under  since February 21, 2003 and URSEA publishes water quality           operators of electricity, potable water and sanitation
               URSEA's;      and     URSEC's   indicators in its webpage since May 10, 2005. In the power          services (in the case of URSEA) and telecommunications
               jurisdiction  have    published sector URSEA approved in December 24,, 2003 quality of              services (in the case of URSEC); and (b) Parliament has
               performance indicators for the  service regulation with specific reference to the set of indicators approved and the Executive has promulgated laws
               fourth quarter of 2003.         to be published and the way to publish them. These indicators       authorizing URSEA and URSEC to request information
                                               were collected for the first time by URSEA and UTE following        from the public and private operators of electricity,
                                               these procedures for the period January ­ June 2006. Indicators     natural gas, potable water and sanitation services (in the
                                               on commercial quality of service have been already calculated       case of URSEA), and telecommunications services (in the
                                               and those on technical quality of service are under processing.     case of URSEC).
                                               In telecommunications initial sets of indicators have been
                                               selected and published regularly in an aggregated mode in
                                               URSEC's web page since October 2006, and following the
                                               approval of Law 18,046 in October 24, 2006 will begin to be
                                               published operator by operator in the immediate future. In the
                                               natural gas sector URSEA is currently reviewing existing
                                               concession contracts to select among those the set of indicators
                                               contemplated there which to publish.



                                                                                   42

 Objective
 & Sector       Original Condition                                  Status of Condition                                  Proposed Second Tranche Condition

Energy     Condition 1 of Schedule 3         Not met. In 2003 URSEA recommended a target tariff and a             Cancelled
           (Second Tranche). MIEM has        convergence path to the government but UTE disagreed with
           issued a decree announcing        some aspects of the study and the former administration thought
           the target tariff for electricity more appropriate to leave this decision to the incoming
           distribution and establishing a   government. The present administration reviewed the arguments
           convergence path towards the      of URSEA and UTE and after considering the changes that have
           target tariff (consistent with    taken place in the energy market, particularly in the regional
           URSEA's       recommendation      power and natural gas markets, decided not to issue the decree
           and the benchmarking studies      at this stage. The MIEM considers that there are other policies
           carried out by URSEA).            that are more attractive at this moment, particularly the
                                             introduction of transmission tolls. Clearly defined tolls are a
                                             basic tool in raising the interest of private participants in the
                                             generation market because of their role as facilitators of
                                             wholesale transactions. Issuing the decree with the target tariff
                                             for electricity distribution would be left for the medium-term to
                                             benefit from a better understanding of the market.
Energy     Condition 2 of Schedule 3         Met as amended. On December 31, 2003 and following the               Revised. MIEM has issued a decree establishing the
           (Second tranche). MIEM has        result of a referendum that on December 8 had revoked the 2002       regulatory framework for the commercialization of
           issued a decree establishing      law intended to end ANCAP's monopoly over the import,                petroleum products.
           the regulatory framework for      export and crude oil refining as well as petroleum derivative
           the importation, production       exporting monopoly, MIEM issued a decree establishing rules
           and    commercialization      of  for   non-discriminatory      access   to   all   stages   of   the
           petroleum products.               commercialization of combustibles, including wholesale and
                                             retail distribution, as well as transport and distribution services.
                                             On February 2004 URSEA complemented the framework by
                                             approving two new regulations on LPG.
Energy     Condition 5 of Schedule 3         Not met. A draft law presented to Parliament by the former           Cancelled
           (Second      tranche).      The   administration was abandoned by the current government. In its
           Borrower has complied with a      consideration, the draft law does not respond to the needs of the
           new natural gas law, which        gas sector and does not reflect its sector policy. The GoU thinks
           includes provisions to: (a)       that public and private sector responsibilities, the tariff system
           eliminate legal ambiguities,      and the usage rights are already defined in current sector
           including with respect to the     concession contracts and decrees. Furthermore, the law that
           attributions of the public and    created URSEA establishes regulation principles for those
           private sector; (b) establish a   services for which URSEA is accountable, including natural
           tariff regime; and (c) define     gas.
           right of way issues.




                                                                                  43

 Objective
 & Sector           Original Condition                                  Status of Condition                                 Proposed Second Tranche Condition

Postal Services Condition 3 of Schedule 3         Met as amended. Articles 77-79 of the 2005-2009 Budgetary         Revised. Parliament has approved and the Executive has
                (Second       tranche).      The  Law defines Universal Postal Coverage and establishes the         promulgated a law that includes: (a) the definition of
                Executive has issued a decree     postal services fee and the fund that will administer the         universal postal coverage; and (b) the establishment of a
                establishing     the  regulatory  resources. Furthering its commitment to establish a regulatory    postal services fee and a fund that will administer such
                framework for the Borrower's      framework for its postal services subsector, the Executive is     resources.
                postal services sub-sector.       preparing a draft law.
Water and       Condition 6 of Schedule 3         Not met. The draft law the former administration sent to          Cancelled
Sanitation      (Second tranche). Parliament      Parliament establishing the regulatory framework was rendered
                has    approved       and     the unconstitutional    by   the    October    2004   Constitutional
                Executive has promulgated a       Amendment. The introduction of Article 47, which states that
                law establishing the legal and    WSS services will be provided exclusively by state entities,
                regulatory framework for the      made invalid the overall conception of that project of law and
                water supply and sanitation       irrelevant some particular agreements ­ for example, shifting the
                sector, which includes, inter     authority to carry out feasibility studies and grant concessions
                alia, provisions to shift the     from OSE to the Executive. The GoU have then begun a new
                authority     to     carry    out process for establishing the framework and, as of present, the
                feasibility studies and grant     main institutions have been created and the consultation process
                concessions from the OSE to       among institutions has begun. The National Directive of Water
                the Executive.                    and Sanitation and the Advising Commission on Water and
                                                  Sanitation were established through Articles of the 2005-2009
                                                  Budgetary Law, and inter- institutional coordination initiated in
                                                  order to best align the new institutional design with the
                                                  principles of the Constitutional amendment.

                                                                         Efficiency and Competition
Energy          Condition 4 of Schedule 3         Met as amended. On February 2005 and following the results of     Revised. ANCAP has issued a resolution establishing a
                (Second       tranche).      The  the 2003 referendum that revoked the law that had established     logistic unit with separate accounts and management and
                Executive has issued a decree     open access to the oil market, ANCAP issued a separate            with responsibility for the importation, storage, and
                approving       two     divisions logistics unit to make more transparent their costs and income    transport and delivery functions of its petroleum
                within ANCAP with separate        and facilitate future associations with companies interested in   products.
                accounts,    management      and  developing refining projects. The new logistic unit is
                finances for its petroleum        responsible of storage, transport and delivery of ANCAP's
                business and its port and         petroleum      division,    functions   separated    from     its
                logistics facilities.             commercialization unit, and works with a separate management
                                                  and accounting system.




                                                                                      44

Objective
& Sector         Original Condition                                 Status of Condition                               Proposed Second Tranche Condition

Energy      Condition 7 of Schedule 3         Not met. Developing the market for new fixed-term contracts       Cancelled
            (Second tranche). ADME has        with private generators in the manner intended has not been
            approved a first set of PPAs and  possible due to the economic crisis in Argentina, which
            has requested proposals for three substantially affected the energy transactions with that country,
            ongoing energy contracts to be    and the lack of private sector engagement in the development
            replaced by PPAs.                 and sale of new electricity generation in the competitive market.
                                              The dollarization of the export contracts and the Argentinean
                                              gas supply difficulties further hampered the conditions of supply
                                              that had been agreed upon by UTE and the private agents in
                                              Argentina since 2000. Furthermore, there were no offers in the
                                              2002 public bidding for developing a 300 MW natural gas
                                              combined cycle power plant. These developments have led the
                                              GoU to reflect on the convenience of developing and migrating,
                                              at this moment, toward the market model structure established
                                              in Law. As a result, the government is now inclined to focus in
                                              the development and strengthening of the wholesale market.
Energy      Condition 4 of Schedule 4 (Third  Not met. Under the current state of development of the power      Cancelled
            Tranche). First spot transactions market, the GoU decided to prepare a transition program that
            for    electricity  have     been will gradually implement the wholesale market regulation,
            completed under the framework     prioritizing the establishment of those standards necessary to
            of the ADME.                      facilitate the development of independent generation projects.
Energy      Condition 8 of Schedule 3         Not met. As a result of the public referendum that repealed Law   Cancelled
            (Second tranche). The Executive   17.448, the executive does not have the legal authority to
            has approved unit tariffs and     comply with this condition. ANCAP retains a monopoly
            URSEA has approved conditions     position in the sector.
            for open access to ANCAP's
            port, wholesale oil import, and
            storage facilities.
Water and   Condition 9 of Schedule 3         Not    met.    The   2004   Constitutional   Amendment      made  Cancelled
Sanitation  (Second    tranche).  OSE     has unconstitutional this type of management contracts.
            offered to award a performance-
            based contract to a private
            operator for the management of
            the UFW reduction program in
            Montevideo, as evidenced by the
            public offer issued for the award
            of the contract.




                                                                                  45

Objective
 & Sector        Original Condition                                 Status of Condition                                     Proposed Second Tranche Condition

Transport  Condition 10 of Schedule 3         Met. On July 8, 2003 a contract for the management concession         Same
           (Second tranche). The Borrower     of the Carrasco International Airport was signed between the
           has brought to the point of        National Ministry of Defense and the public limited company
           concession the management of       "Puerta del Sur".
           the    Carrasco      International
           Airport, as evidenced by the
           issuance of invitations to bid for
           the award of the concessions.
Energy     Condition 2 of Schedule 4 (Third   Met as amended. The gap for the main derivatives except LPG           Revised. The Borrower has closed the gap between the
           Tranche). The Borrower has         has been reduced during March 2003-July 2006. However, due            ex-refinery and the estimated import parity prices of
           fully closed the gap between the   to international price volatility it is very difficult to fully close gasoline, gasoil and fuel oil within a range of plus or
           ex-refinery and the estimated      this gap and keep it closed. Key to this achievement has been         minus 25 percent, calculated based on a quarterly moving
           import parity prices of petroleum  the methodology established by URSEA in August 2004                   basis.
           derivatives.                       URSEA for calculating import parity prices for liquid fuels. The
                                              import parity prices of fuels calculated based on this
                                              methodology are regularly published in URSEA's web page.
Energy     Condition 3 of Schedule 4 (Third   Met as amended. Relative price distortions have been reduced          Revised. The Borrower has reduced relative price
           Tranche). The Borrower has         through changes in (i) the way of setting fuel taxes (making          distortions in fuel pricing to the extent necessary to be
           reduced relative price distortions them fixed instead of proportional as before); and (ii) the           within a range of plus or minus 20 percent with Brazil
           in the structure of fuel taxation, absolute prices themselves. In August 2006 for example a liter        and Chile.
           through the enactment of any       of Gasoline Supra 95 (Nafta Super) paid 3.4 times higher taxes
           necessary     amendments        to than a liter of Diesel (Gas Oil), significantly lower than the 5.3
           existing tax laws, to the extent   times it paid in August 2002. As a partial consequence of this
           necessary to reach equilibrium     homogenization of taxes, in August 2006 a liter of Gasoline
           with   the   major   neighboring   Supra cost in the pump 1.5 times higher than a liter of Diesel,
           countries.                         30percent lower than in August 2002. Consequently, price
                                              differentials between Uruguay and the neighboring countries are
                                              now smaller (below 10percent relative to Brazil and Chile). The
                                              price differentials between Uruguay and Argentina are larger
                                              but due to current Argentinean price policies reduction of these
                                              price distortions is not possible at this moment.
Telecommu  Condition 5 (a) of Schedule 4      Met. In December 2004, URSEC approved the National                    Same
nications  (Third Tranche). URSEC has set     Numbering Plan.
           up an independent telephone
           numbering management system.




                                                                                    46

Objective
 & Sector       Original Condition                                  Status of Condition                                   Proposed Second Tranche Condition

Telecommu- Condition 5 (b) of Schedule 4      Met. A customer database administrator system was adopted            Same
nications  (Third Tranche). URSEC has:        and its implementation completed in September 20, 2006
           adopted a customer database        through URSEC's Resolution 190/06.
           administrator.
Telecommu- Condition 5 (c) of Schedule 3      Met. Precise rules for signaling have been laid out in the           Same
nications  (Second Tranche). URSEC has        National Signaling Plan and legally established through
           defined    precise    rules   for  Resolution 429/04.
           signaling (i.e., identifying the
           origin and destination of a
           telephone call).
Transport  Condition 6 (a) of Schedule 4      Met. In December 2002, the National Administration of Ports          Same
           (Third tranche). Borrower had      (ANP) approved the process of inviting bids for the award of the
           brought   to     the   point    of concession of the port and set May 9, 2003 as the bid
           concession the management of       submission deadline and opening. This deadline was further
           the       Montevideo         port  reviewed and updated, up to January 30, 2004 when the GoU
           multipurpose terminal (puerto      approved general specifications to bid. The bidding process
           polivalente), as evidenced by the  however came to a halt and the multipurpose terminal has not
           issuance of invitations to bid for been awarded since two firms begin proceedings to revoke the
           the award of the concession.       Executive resolutions that call for international bids as well as
                                              the bid specifications and all actions related to these resolutions.
                                              Despite this outcome, the objective of this condition has already
                                              been met as private participation in the development of the ports
                                              sector has been extensive.
Transport  Condition 6 (b) of Schedule 4      Met as amended. In January 2006 the separation of                    Revised. Parliament has approved and the Executive has
           (Third tranche). The Borrower      infrastructure management and railways operations was                promulgated a law authorizing the formation of a public
           has offered to award contracts to  reversed and AFE's resources were reintegrated. Under the new        limited company jointly owned by AFE and the
           private companies to operate in    sector policy, a scheme to integrate the railway transport system    Borrower's National Corporation for Development
           former AFE rail networks, as       with the private sector was launched. Under this scheme,             ("Corporación   Nacional   para   el  Desarrollo"), a
           evidenced by the public offer      Parliament authorized the creation of the Railway Corporation        corporation established by the Borrower's Law No.
           issued for the award of the        of Uruguay (CFU), as a public limited company. The CFU is            15785 of December 4, 1985, for the operation of railways
           contracts.                         expected to be set up by mid March 2007 and would thereafter         in Uruguay.
                                              call for bids to contract with other private companies. A parallel
                                              mixed (private and public) entity would be created that, together
                                              with AFE will be responsible for marketing the rail
                                              transportation    throughout    the   country.    Pre-qualification
                                              specifications are under preparation.




                                                                                   47

 Objective
 & Sector        Original Condition                                  Status of Condition                                  Proposed Second Tranche Condition

                                                                        Institutional Development
Energy     Condition 11 of Schedule 3           Met as amended. On August 18, 2006 MIEM issued and                 Revised. The Borrower, through MIEM, has published
           (Second tranche). The Borrower,      published in its web page the government's "Guidelines for an      the guidelines for the definition of a national energy
           through MIEM, has published          Energy Strategy ­ Uruguay 2006". The Guidelines defines            strategy to improve energy security in Uruguay at
           and complied with a national         public and private participation to optimize the use of available  affordable cost.
           energy policy which addresses        local, regional and international resources. It also mentions the
           issues relating to: (a) the relative relevance it assigns to energy efficiency, the diversification of
           price of fuels; (b) the economics    the energy matrix, the use of native and renewable resources,
           of gas and electricity importation   the positive impact of expanding employment and increasing
           form Argentina and Brazil; (c)       productivity, the preservation of the environment, and the
           the economics and politics of a      promotion of regional integration. It finally outlines the most
           strategic national reserve of        important aspects to be considered under the National Policy.
           generating capacity; (d) the         The Guidelines reflects a wide consensus among the entities
           environmental impact of changes      currently responsible for leading and managing the energy
           in the country's energy portfolio;   sector in the country. They will allow deepening the dialogue
           (e) the consistency of the new       among them and with the rest of interested parties, including the
           electricity, gas and petroleum       Parliament and the civil society.
           regulations with the national
           energy    policy;   and    (f)   the
           institutional capacity required to
           implement      and    monitor      a
           national energy policy.
                                                                                  General
Linkage    Conditions 7 of Schedule 4           Met. The reforms agreed under the SSAL were fully                  Non applicable
with SSAL  (Third Tranche) and 12 of            implemented. However, the second and third tranches of the
(L7165)    Schedule 3 (Second Tranche).         SSAL were not disbursed because they were linked to the
           The Borrower has fulfilled all of    release of tranches II and III of SAL and vice-versa, under the
           the conditions set forth in          assumption that full compliance with the conditionality of one
           Schedules 3 and 4 to the Special     loan would provide significant additional incentives to comply
           Structural    Adjustment      Loan   with the conditions of the other loan. In the interim however, the
           Agreement      of     even     date  overall economic situation of Uruguay improved and new and
           herewith (Loan 7165-UR).             more advantageous financial options became available. In that
                                                context and upon the request of the GoU in early 2005, the
                                                second and third tranches of the SSAL were cancelled. The link
                                                is no longer relevant.




                                                                                    48


                                                    Annex 2
                                  Uruguay Key Economic Indicators


                                                                                                          est.

                                                  2000    2001      2002     2003       2004      2005   2006
Real Sector (% Change)
Real GDP                                           -1.4    -3.4     -11.0      2.2       11.8       6.6   6.5
  Real Consumption                                 -1.4    -2.1     -15.9      1.1       10.5       2.5   5.5
  Real Investment                                 -13.0    -9.1     -34.5     18.0       22.0      10.1  41.0

Contributions to real GDP growth (%)
  Consumption                                      -1.3    -2.2     -15.2      1.0        9.6       2.2   4.8
  Investment                                       -2.0    -1.3      -5.0      1.9        2.7       1.4   5.6
  Net exports                                       1.8     0.0       9.1      -0.7      -0.4       3.0  -3.9

GDP (UR$ bn.)                                      243     249       261       316        379       411   465
GDP (US$ bn.)                                      20.1   18.6      12.3      11.2       13.2      16.8  19.4

Prices and Inflation
CPI inflation (% change, pa)                        4.8     4.4      14.0     19.4        9.2       4.7   6.3
CPI inflation (% change, eop)                       5.1     3.6      25.6     10.2        7.6       4.9   6.0
Nominal exchange rate, pa UR$/US$                  12.1   13.3       21.3     28.2       28.7      24.5  24.1
Nominal exchange rate, eop UR$/US$                 12.5   14.8       27.2     29.3       26.4      24.1  24.1
Real effective exchange rate, 2000=100            100.0   99.0      88.0      69.0       68.0      77.0  83.4

Balance of Payments (in % of GDP)
Exports of Goods & Services                        18.2   17.6      21.9      27.6       32.5      30.3  29.8
Imports of Goods & Services                        20.9   20.1      20.3      24.4       28.6      27.5  29.9
Current Account Balance                            -2.8    -2.7       3.1      -0.5       0.3       0.0  -2.6
Reserves assets (- increase)                        1.1     1.5      19.0    -12.3       -3.4       -5.6  3.6

External Debt/GDP                                  44.3   48.1      87.4      98.2       87.4      67.5  53.7
External Debt, US$ bn.                              8.9     8.9      11.0     11.0       11.6      11.4  10.4

Non-Financial Public Sector (in % of GDP)
Revenue                                            31.4   32.7       32.1     32.0       30.9      31.8  31.7
 Tax revenue                                       20.9   21.8       22.2     22.2       21.9      22.5  22.9
 Social security contributions                      6.1     5.8       6.0      4.7        4.4       5.2   5.4
 Nontax revenue                                     2.4     2.1       2.0      2.0        2.1       2.0   1.9
 Operating surplus of public enterprises            2.0     2.9       2.0      3.2        2.6       2.1   1.5
Primary expenditure                                32.9   34.0      32.1      29.3       27.2      27.9  28.0
Primary balance                                    -1.5    -1.2      0.0       2.7        3.8       3.9   3.7
 Interest payments                                  2.6     2.9       4.7      6.0        6.0       4.6   4.3
Overall balance                                    -4.1    -4.2      -4.6      -3.2      -2.2       -0.7 -0.5
Public Sector Debt 1/                              38.5   46.0      95.5    104.5        92.5      69.3  63.6
  Public Sector External Debt 1/                   30.3   31.4       67.6     85.3       76.9      60.2  47.3
Public Sector Debt, US$ bn. 1/                      7.7     8.5      11.6     11.7       12.3      11.7  12.3
Sources: Ministry of Economy and Finance, Central Bank of Uruguay, IMF and World Bank staff projections.

1/ Net of free reserves and monetary policy instruments.




                                                        49

