Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4695 
Operation Name 
Mali: Poverty Reduction Support Credit 3 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture (10%), general industry and trade (10%) 
Central government administration (50%); General Education 
(15%); General Health (15%). 
Project ID 
P113451 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
The Ministry of Economy Industry and commerce (MEIC) coordinates 
the implementation in close association with the Ministry of Finance and 
several line ministries.
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 24, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 30, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
May 19, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mali has established a strong economic management record over the past decade and a half, in 
the context of a stable democratic political environment and founded on a market-oriented policy 
framework. Mali has also been implementing its second Poverty Reduction Strategy, the Growth 
and Poverty Reduction Framework (GPRSF) covering the period 2007-11.  Notwithstanding 
recent achievements in growth (which have averaged 5 percent a year from 2003-
08), Mali’s 
economic prospects remain vulnerable to various exogenous shocks (global crisis, climatic, 
pests, commodity prices,) and are hampered by deeply rooted obstacles to growth, including a 
poor investment climate and deficient infrastructure.  
 
Given its significant needs for accelerating growth and reducing poverty, Mali will require 
sustained technical and financial support of the donor community, inclusive of the Bank, in a 
coordinated policy framework. The proposed operation, an integral part of the Bank’s Country 
Assistance Strategy for Mali, would contribute to the financing of the Government’s 2009 budget 
aimed at pursuing the objectives of the GPRSF. The operation would provide support for the 
implementation of key economic, social and institutional reforms to strengthen economic growth 
and poverty reduction.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PRSC-3 would support the Government in the pursuit of policy objectives laid out 
its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, of accelerating growth and improving the wellbeing of the 
Malian populations. The reform program presented in the GPRSF has three strategic 
orientations: (i) development of infrastructure and the productive sector, to improve the 
productive environment, ensure better productivity of factors of production and economic 
growth; (ii) pursuance and consolidation of public sector structural reforms, to ensure good 
management of public affairs ; and (iii) strengthening of social sectors to improve the delivery of 
Page  2
key social services, in particular education, health, drinking water and sanitation. The operation 
would focus its support in helping the government 
improve 
the regulatory and institutional 
framework for infrastructure and private investment, strengthen public financial management
 
and improve basic service delivery. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The PRSC-3 supports reforms of 
Mali’s poverty reduction strategy and is a complement to 
ongoing or planned World Bank investment operations.  The PRSC series would support the 
implementation of the Government’s reform agenda by focusing on the following areas: (i) 
enhancing the regulatory and institutional framework for infrastructure and private investment to 
improve productivity; (ii) strengthening public financial management for improved public sector 
efficiency; and (iii) improving service delivery to increase access to quality basic social services. 
For PRSC-3 in particular, support provided includes the payment of arrears due by the public 
ginnery CMDT to producers and adoption of a price mechanism aligning the seed cotton price to 
the international lint market price for the 2009/2010 campaign, nomination of the Regulatory 
Board for the telecommunications sector (the CRT Board) and extension of the validity of import 
and export licenses from 6 to 12 months.  PRSC-3 supports Government reform to expand the 
MTEF to 4 additional ministries, establish the procurement control departments and the 
independent procurement regulatory institution and the timely submission to Parliament of the 
draft "Loi de Règlement 2007".  Finally, the PRSC-3 contributes to the Government’s efforts to 
improve social service delivery through the support to the allocation in the 2009 budget of 
resources for the integrated school feeding program in the poorest regions of the country; 
adoption of a Health Human Resource Policy aimed at improving the availability of staff in 
health services, with emphasis on peripheral services; and delegation of the management of five 
drinking water supply (AEP) systems to private operators. 
Benefits and Risks 
The proposed PRSC-3 (and subsequent operations in the series) is expected to have a 
significant positive direct impact on poverty reduction.
 Component 1 of PRSC-3 supports 
actions that contribute to growth in the cotton sector and private investment, including through 
an improved regulatory environment for telecommunications, a growing sector that is also key 
for business development, and facilitation of trade across borders, thus contributing to the 
creation of employment and poverty reduction.  In particular, by supporting the clearance of 
arrears to cotton producers, including the poorest, the PRSC-3 contributes to the provision of 
incomes for consumption and future 
investment
,
directly influencing livelihoods and improving 
prospects for consolidated cotton production during the 2008/09 cotton season.
1
S
trengthening 
public financial management is expected to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of 
public resources in the delivery of development services.  
Procurement reform, also supported 
by PRSC-3, promotes the value for money principle by emphasizing open and transparent 
bidding rather than opaque single source contracting, increasing the effectiveness of public 
1
Results from the 2006 household survey show that households deriving income from cotton are the poorest with a 
poverty incidence of 77.8% (the rural average is 57.6%) and while they represent 13.7% of total population, they 
contribute for 22.5% to poverty. In terms of depth and severity of poverty, they record the highest percentages with 
33.1% and 17.9% respectively. 
.
Page  3
expenditure.  The PRSC-3 also contributes to improved living standards of the poor by 
supporting school feeding programs in Mali’s poorest regions, access to drinking water in rural 
areas and a health human resource policy that seeks to ensure skilled personnel in remote areas.  
The operation faces external and budget risks. External risks stem mainly from the global 
slowdown. Pronounced deterioration of terms of trade and a decline in aid flows and remittances 
would hinder Mali’s ability to finance its current account deficit (especially imports) which 
would then compromise its growth rate.  A reduction of external assistance could have a 
significant adverse fiscal impact. In addition, heightened risk aversion in the WAEMU could 
reduce the scope for Mali to raise budget financing regionally.  The heavy exposure of some 
banks to the cotton sector is a major risk, given the weakening global cotton markets.  Other 
exogenous factors such as Mali’s vulnerability to climatic/natural shocks (drought, locust 
invasion) could compound the situation. Mitigating factors are Mali’s strong track record in 
macroeconomic management and the government’s renewed focus on growth-enhancing 
structural reforms while giving attention to key social programs.  A surveillance committee has 
been established to systematically follow developments and propose policy responses. The 
operation would contribute to the mitigating measures by supporting policy actions that 
contribute to economic growth and diversification, further strengthen public financial 
management and address social service delivery issues. Additionally, the overall country 
dialogue would allow for some budget flexibility to address crisis-related expenses within the 
context of a prudently managed budget that supports priority growth and poverty reduction 
programs. The introduction of predictable and timely support through the PRSC series will also 
help mitigate the external risks. Reinforced donor coordination will also be critical to ensure 
external financial and technical assistance to support reforms and help progress towards the 
MDGs.  
 
Budget risk stems from ongoing financial difficulties facing the cotton and electricity parastatal 
companies (CMDT, BHM and EDM) which could potentially require larger government 
transfers than included in the budget to cover the larger projected deficits in those sectors than 
anticipated. As a result, required budget allocations to underpin the actions described in the 
operation could be jeopardized compromising the objectives of the program. This risk is 
mitigated through strengthened management in CMDT and EDM (new management teams have 
been nominated for both companies) and close monitoring of their respective financial and cash 
positions (with both being part of the IMF and Bank macroeconomic monitoring and policy 
dialogue with the Government). BHM is implementing measures to improve its performance 
with close supervision from the regional Central Bank. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have 
significant negative impacts on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources
.
The reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen regulatory, institutional and public finance 
management at the national, regional and local government level.  However, the operation 
touches on the cotton sector that may have very significant associated environmental risks. More 
broadly, the PRSC series covers the agriculture (cotton and ON), infrastructure (electricity and 
airports) and mining sectors that may also have significant associated environmental risks.  
Page  4
These sectors benefit from Bank financed investment operations for which specific 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessments were prepared. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
US$55 mn. 
 Total 
US$55 
mn. 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Clara de Sousa 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2558 
Fax: 202-473-8136 
Email: cdesousa@worldbank.org 
 
1.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
